<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (D&D DISPLAYS INNOVATES IN NORTH WILKESBORO -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today to salute the innovative and hardworking folks at D&D Displays in North Wilkesboro, North Carolina. 
   Earlier this week, I visited D&D's manufacturing facilities in North Wilkesboro, North Carolina to learn more about this fine company's contributions to the local economy in Wilkes County. I toured D&D Displays' facility and spoke with company employees about policies that promote economic growth and well-paying jobs in North Carolina. I was honored to be joined by D&D Displays' CEO, James D. Brown, as well as by representatives from the Chamber of Commerce. 
   Our great Nation has a long tradition of economic growth that provides one of the foundations of our freedoms, so it is exciting to see the progress that D&D Displays has made in Wilkes County to create good jobs and to boost the local economy. 
   During my visit, I also learned that this local employer recently landed a new project that could provide up to $22 million in new revenue for the North Wilkesboro-based company and that could double or triple the company's employment rolls. 
   Success stories like D&D Displays are based on the innovative, creative and hardworking people of this country who ask nothing from government except to get out of their way so they can thrive. Congratulations to D&D Displays on their upcoming expansion. My hope is to see them continue to expand their business and to contribute to North Carolina's economy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (EMPLOYEE FREE CHOICE ACT -- (House of Representatives - March 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Chairman, I appreciate the opportunity to speak in support of this amendment, which we are calling Do Not Contact Amendment to H.R. 800, which I agree is the Employee Intimidation Act. 
   I strongly oppose H.R. 800 in its current form, and that is why I have submitted this amendment. This amendment requires the National Labor Relations Board to promulgate standards and a model notice for an employee to put him or herself on a Do Not Contact list to avoid union solicitation. This will really test whether the opposition believes what they have just been saying in the last few minutes. 
   By removing workers' rights to a private ballot election, we are consequently leaving those workers vulnerable to coercion, pressure, outright intimidation and threats. But if we have a Do Not Contact list, then they can avoid the intimidation and threats. 
   Let me illustrate the need for a Do Not Contact list by quoting from the testimony of Tom Riley, employee of Cintas Corporation in Pennsylvania, before the Subcommittee on Employer-Employee Relations, House Committee on Education and the Workforce on September 30, 2004: 
   ``But I draw the line, Mr. Chairman, when union organizers come to my house on a Sunday afternoon telling my wife that they were with the company and needed to talk with me. When I came to the door, they admitted they were really with the union and started trying to tell me all sorts of bad things about Cintas. I told them to leave, and they eventually did. 
   ``I called a friend of mine from work, and he said they had been to his house too. What is disturbing is that I have an unlisted telephone number and address on purpose. I don't like the fact that union organizers are now coming to my door lying to my wife about who they are and what they want. 
   ``I have since learned that the union may have gotten my personal information illegally by copying down my license plate number and getting information from the State's vehicle registration files, which we understand is a violation of the Federal Driver's Privacy Protection Act. In one case there is a co-worker who doesn't live with his parents, but the car he drives was registered at his parents' address, and his parents got visits by union organizers.  
   ``That is why several of my fellow employees and me, along with a number of our family members, have filed a lawsuit against the unions for what we believe they have done in violation of Federal law, and it appears that the unions have been doing this to other employees in other parts of the country too.'' 
   Madam Chairman, this is why I think Congress must consider the Do Not Contact amendment to further protect American workers. 
   Madam Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to my colleague from California (Mr. McKeon). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (EMPLOYEE FREE CHOICE ACT -- (House of Representatives - March 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Chairwoman, last week I said in the committee that I have never in my life seen language twisted in issues and ideas twisted in the way that they have been twisted in response to this bill. I said that Congress has often been described as a circus, and if this were a circus, then the people on the Education Committee who support this bill would surely be in the contortionist area of the circus, because contorting the language to say that taking away the right to a secret ballot is more democratic than the right to a secret ballot is the most unbelievable language that I think I have ever heard on the floor.     
   And I think this has to be one of the worst bills that has ever been introduced in the Congress. And I want to say that at least, by passing my amendment, we could avoid harassment and intimidation by the unions. And I know that that occurs. And we could at least allow people the freedom to be not bothered by the union people who, the only way of getting this done is to harass people to sign a card. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (OFFICIAL TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - March 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate this recognition and the opportunity to come in as the Official Truth Squad usually does. I didn't bring the Official Truth Squad banner with me today, but I have heard enough of the session that has just gone on. 
   I see that the 2006 class didn't take very long to be brainwashed by their colleagues who were already here. 
   I will tell you, I think that maybe every Congress has a theme to it. And I would say the theme of this Congress is hypocrisy. 
   I served in the State Senate for 10 years, and I have often commented on this. We were never allowed to tell an untruth on the floor of the State Senate because we would get called down for it. But it happens here on the floor of the House every day, and it is truly an amazing situation to see, and I continue to be astonished by that occurrence when I see it here. 
   I want to talk a little bit and give another side of the story of this bill that passed here today called the Employee Free Choice Act. We have been calling it the Employee Intimidation Act. And what I find most astonishing is that our colleagues on the other side are so willing to knock down one of the cornerstones of our democracy, and that is the right to a private ballot. 
   For centuries, Americans, regardless of race, creed or gender, have fought for the right to vote and the right to keep that vote to themselves. Now, just months after a new House majority was elected in 435 separate elections, it has just voted to strip men and women of this country of their right to a private ballot in the workplace. I don't know what could be more undemocratic than that. Again, it just seems to me that hypocrisy is running rampant among the House majority. 
   In recent polls, almost 9 in 10 voters, 83 percent, agreed that every worker should continue to have the right to a federally supervised secret ballot election when deciding whether to organize a union; 80 percent also oppose the Employee Free Choice Act; 71 percent of union members agreed that the current secret ballot process is fair; and 78 percent said Congress should keep the existing secret ballot election process in place and not replace it with another process. But that kind of feedback means absolutely nothing to the majority in this House. They are bound and determined to pay off the people who help put them in the majority and they are going to do that. 
   Chuck Canterbury, National President of the Fraternal Order of Police, issued a press release saying that, ``without the anonymity of the secret ballot, the Fraternal Order of Police would probably not exist today.'' 
   The only way to guarantee worker protection from coercion and intimidation is through the continued use of secret ballot election so that personal decisions about whether to join a union remain private. 
   Even the AFL-CIO has expressed support for secret ballot elections when workers are presented the opportunity to decertify a union. The union argued that ``private ballot elections provide the surest means for avoiding decisions which are the result of group pressure and not individual decisions.'' 
   Now, they have expressed their opinion for that, but then sometimes they express a different opinion. And we know that the Federal courts have repeatedly stated that secret ballot elections are the most foolproof method of  ascertaining whether a union has the support of a majority of the employees. 
   In reality, the card check process does not give employees a choice at all. Instead, it gives union organizers the choice of whether to organize through a card check process. And during this card check process, those employees who do not want a union do not have a voice and are, in effect, removed from the process of making decisions about their own jobs. 
   Now, I think it would be useful to talk a little bit about who does want this bill, and we have a list. Acorn, which has been very much in the news in the last few months and fined thousands and thousands of dollars for illegal election practices all over the country. That is a really wonderful group to have supporting this bill. I can't understand how the people on the majority side want to be associated with such a group. 
   And then the AFL-CIO, Americans for Democratic Action, Center for American Progress, the Democrat Leadership Council. 
   But there is a group that has been left off this list, I noticed, and that is very important to put on.     
   It is the Communist Party. The Communist Party of the United States favors this bill. And I think it is very important that the American public understand that. Our folks are aligning themselves with the Communist Party. The people who support this bill are aligning themselves with the Communist Party of the United States. Now, I would be a little bit concerned about that if I were them, but it doesn't seem to bother them in the least that they advocate communistic practices. 
   In fact, in our committee meeting last week or about 10 days ago when we discussed this bill in the Education and Labor Committee, I made a couple of comments about how struck I was by the comments that were being made. The folks were trying to make the argument that not allowing the secret ballot is more democratic than having the secret ballot. And I commented that the illusion that came to me was that of certain people in a circus. I have often heard the Congress described as a circus. And I said that day I could understand people calling the Congress a circus, and I knew exactly where the Democratic members of that committee would be in the circus if they were part of the circus and we all had a place. They would be the contortionists because I had never heard people do such a job on manipulating the English language to make it sound like no secret ballot made more sense than the secret ballot in terms of the democratic process. 
   I mean, you have got to be a real contortionist with the language to be able to do that. It reminds me of the book ``1984,'' where they rewrite history and white is black and black is white, and it was a truly amazing display of illogic, not logic, but illogic. 
   And then they went on to say, and I don't have the exact quotes but I can paraphrase: it is a real shame that there are some people in this country who make too much money, and we shouldn't allow that to happen. We shouldn't allow people to make too much money; so we have to figure out a way to take some of the money from people that we think are making too much money and give it to people who are not making enough. 
   And, again, that struck me as the definition of communism. And I said, That has been tried in lots of other places, and it has never worked. It has always failed, and we can see it failing. 
   Here we have one of the strongest economies that has existed in the history of this country, and people are doing extremely well, which is one reason, I think, that people aren't joining the union. We know that union growth is going down, and that is one of the main reasons that they are pushing this, so that they can intimidate people into signing these cards, not have a secret ballot, and force people into belonging to a union. And that is the reason that they are doing this. And as they gained the majority in the House, they see this as one of the big ways again to pay back the unions who helped put them here. 
   A lot of people today and in the committee talked about personal experiences, and I haven't talked any about any of my personal experiences as far as the unions are concerned. But my father, when he was working, was forced to join unions and he had a visceral negative response to that. It offended him tremendously that he could not go out and on his own get a job and be able to work at that job without having to go through a union boss, pay union dues, give up a lot of his hard-earned money to the unions in order for him to get a job. And he was very, very much opposed to the unions because he had seen that intimidation personally. He had seen money being taken away from him and being misused when he could have used that for his family. We haven't heard too much about that on the floor today. We have heard a lot about other kinds of things, but we haven't heard much about that. 
   We have heard, though, that there has been no union violence, no harassment, no intimidation. Well, that isn't true. There are at least 300 incidences of violence perpetrated by the unions on either their members or on people who are not members but coming from the union. Three hundred per year for the last 30 years. And I am just going to give a few examples of that: 
   West Virginia miner shot dead for working during a strike. Virginia women targeted for working during a strike. 
   And I will give some details about the second one: 
   When the United Auto Workers Local 149 called a strike against Abex Friction Products in Winchester, Virginia, several of the workers decided they needed their paychecks and crossed the picket lines to work. They were targeted for harassment and intimidation. In one instance an employee who crossed the picket line found a severed cow's head placed on the hood of her car. Later someone made up a photograph with her face superimposed over the dead cow's head and mailed it to her. The union paid a substantial settlement to six women for its members' harassment of them. 
   The same thing with the miner, the union was forced to pay. 
   UPS driver beaten and stabbed by fellow union brothers. Worker who opposed unionization has his house ``put on the map.'' 
   Math teacher fired for challenging union president. And let me give you the details of this one: 
   George Parker taught math in Washington, D.C. and was a member of the Washington Teachers Union. In 1997 he challenged union president Barbara Bullock's financial administration with the Department of Labor, and she allegedly had him fired for doing so. But Parker's suspicions were proven correct. Bullock was later convicted of embezzling $4.6 million of member dues money and sentenced to jail. 
   Laborers Union thug attacks union and nonunion workers alike: Laborers Union Local 91 of Buffalo, New York, often relied on Andrew Shomers to harm and intimidate workers, union or not, who weren't paying dues to the local. Shomers pleaded guilty in June 2005 to a series of crimes involving violence and sabotage. His offenses included vandalizing the offices of the local housing authority, because it didn't use Local 91 labor to install a small section of sidewalk outside its offices, participating in a group assault on workers from another union, stalking and attacking nonunion workers on an asbestos-removal project by throwing a homemade firebomb through a window and destroying work that had been done by workers from another union and ruining their tools. 
   Shomers was just one of 15 former Local 91 leaders indicted by authorities in 2003. Following his plea bargain, seven other former leaders pleaded guilty. 
   Electrician fired for asserting his rights. Workers' families, pets threatened because they didn't want the union. 
   There are many, many examples of union violence and intimidation. 
   And one of the things that struck me about the comments that were being made here and the comments that have been made on the floor and in the committee is the attitude of the majority party toward workers. They talk over and over again about the helplessness of workers. They talk about employers controlling employees. 
   What a bad impression they have of other human beings. It is really part of their overall feeling toward us. They  feel like the government or the union has to do everything for us because we are so incapable of doing anything ourselves. 
   I find that really demeaning to other human beings, and I don't think they even understand that they are coming across like that. But just in the session just before now, they talked about the helplessness of workers as though the union has to do everything for these poor people who can't think and do for themselves. That is just unconscionable that they would talk that way. 
   Another interesting thing about their approach, though, is how these same people who don't want our workers in this country to be able to have a secret ballot and vote for a union want that for people in Mexico. 
   Sixteen House Democrats wrote a letter in August 2001. I am going to take one quote out, and I am going to read the letter. This is what they said: ``We feel that the secret ballot is absolutely necessary in order to ensure that workers are not intimidated into voting for a union they might not otherwise choose.'' 
   That is the absolute height of hypocrisy. I have given you lots of other examples of it, but to say we want the people in Mexico to have a secret ballot to vote for a union, but the people in the United States shouldn't have a secret ballot? Where are these people living? I am just chagrined at that. 
   And they write the letter to the Junta Local de Conciliacion, and I won't try to pronounce the rest of it with my very bad Spanish, but it was in the state of Puebla: ``As Members of the Congress of the United States who are deeply concerned with international labor standards and the role of labor rights and international trade agreements, we are writing to encourage you to use the secret ballot in all union recognition elections.'' 
   Unbelievable that these folks would want the secret ballot for people in Mexico but not want the secret ballot for the folks in this country. Again, I find it absolutely amazing. 
   I have pointed out, again, they are aligned with the Communist Party of the United States. Those are the people who favor this. 
   Now let me see if I can go here and tell you some of the people who are opposed to this legislation: the American Hospital Association, the Hotel Lodging Association, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and there are many, many, many more. 
   Now, what is it that is unique about these people? And I will go back to the other chart in a minute. What is unique about these organizations compared to the other organizations? These are the people that create jobs in our country. We live in a capitalistic country, the best country in the world. I don't see anybody rushing out of this country because their work opportunities are so rotten and so lousy. 
   They talk about how horrible it is in the United States. Well, how come we don't have people going to Mexico and to these other countries where working conditions must obviously be better if they are so rotten in this country? 
   It is because they aren't rotten in this country. It is because we have the best country in the world. 
   To hear these people talk about it, all these folks who create jobs, all these employers out there, individual small businesses, even large businesses are rotten people and all they want to do is intimidate and harass their workers. And yet unemployment is the lowest rate that it has been in this country in 50 years. Wages are up. The economy is booming. Something has got to be right about this country. But to hear them talk about it, it is the most miserable place in the world to live. I think they ought to find another place to live, frankly, if they think that this is such a rotten place to live. 
   I, frankly, love it here. I get teary eyed when we sing the ``Star Spangled Banner,'' even when we say the Pledge of Allegiance, because I am so grateful to live in a country where people have freedom and where they are not harassed and where they can do the kinds of things they want to do. But taking the right away for a secret ballot, where is it going to stop? Why don't they recommend taking away the secret ballot for their leadership elections, for example? Would they like to do that? I don't think so. Would they like to take away the secret ballot for us voting when we elect people to this Chamber? I don't think so. But that is what they want to do for the people who want to elect or not elect to have a union.     
   I think that it is really rotten. 
   Now, I want to show you what has happened in terms of the decline in union membership and talk just a little bit about this. 
   This is the real reason that there is such a push on to push this bill through. We are now at the point where we have 7 percent, I believe it is, of private employment where people belong to unions. Most of the growth in unions is now in the public sector. 
   You can see the total membership. The peak for union membership was in the 1980s, and it has been going down steadily since then. My guess is a lot has to do with the fact, again, that we have a good economy, that things are working very well. Folks have figured out how to protect their own rights. They don't need to pay union bosses, who make hundreds of thousands, even millions of dollars, who live in great luxury, while the workers make much, much less money than they do. People have begun to understand that the unions are not value-added for them. They are not giving them something they couldn't get on their own. Yet our colleagues across the aisle want to continue to believe that poor American workers are so helpless they can't do anything on their own without the help of the unions. 
   We have said before in the Official Truth Squad that everybody has a right to his or her opinion, but they don't have a right to the facts. Again, I want to point out, this is what is happening. We can see the total membership is going down, the private sector membership particularly, and that is what is really getting at our colleagues across the aisle. 
   I want to talk a little bit about the kind of assets that some of these unions have too, because for some reason they accumulate a lot of wealth and their leaders, again, are paid huge salaries. The American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees have total assets of $57 million. They have about 1.5 million members and they have 620 employees. That is pretty good. Some of the other ones have even more assets for themselves. 
   Let's talk a little bit more about the union violations versus the employer violations. The folks in favor of the bill argue that employer coercion during union-organizing drives is rampant, while union coercion is virtually nonexistent. Specifically, they claim that employers engaged in illegal coercion in excess of 30,000 times last year alone, while in the history of humankind unions have only engaged in coercive tactics 42 times. 
   Well, I read you some details on some of those and gave you some facts. Again, they have their opinions, but they can't change the facts. 
   But these allegations are both deceptive and misleading. We know that if they are willing to engage in this kind of deception on the floor of the House in a campaign where they are trying to get a bill passed, where their comments are subject to public scrutiny, we can only wonder what type of deceptive tactics they might use in a card check campaign. 
   Mr. Speaker, the NLRB, which is not exactly a conservative group of people, reports that in 2006, there were 8,047 charges of employer discrimination or illegal discharge and 5,405 charges of union coercion and illegal restraint, in addition to another 594 cases of union discrimination. So we are talking about 8,000 charges against employers and 6,000 charges against the unions. And that doesn't account for the fact that unions are likely to file more frivolous charges than employers. 
   One thing is clear, however. The numbers are not as lopsided as organized labor and their allies would have you believe. Thousands of cases of union intimidation, as well as employer intimidation, are filed every year. 
   We should all agree that intimidation by employers, as well as intimidation by union organizers, is wrong. It isn't right for either of them to do it and I don't condone any of it. But while our Nation's labor laws may not be perfect, at least they provide a federally supervised process by which a worker can make the important decision about whether to join a union in private  without his or her employer, coworkers, or union organizers knowing how he or she ultimately voted. 
   Again, I cannot imagine a more basic right than our right to vote in private and not have anybody know how we vote. It is a sacred right, and we should not allow that to be taken away. What we should be doing is strengthening workers' privacy rights in making this important decision, not eliminating them. 
   Let me now talk a little bit more about the decline in union membership. For the past 40 years, there has been a steady decline in both union membership and influence. There are several reasons for such a decline, the first having to do with employers keeping their businesses union-free. Some were active in their opposition and even hired consultants to devise legal strategies to combat unions. Others put workers on the management team by appointing them to the board of directors or establishing private sharing plans to reward employees. Another is that new additions to the labor force have traditionally had little loyalty to organized labor. 
   Because more and more women and teenagers are working and their incomes tend to be a family's second income, they have a proclivity towards accepting lower wages, thus defeating the purpose of organized labor. Another reason is many businesses have gone out of business because of union employees, because union-made products have become so expensive that sales were lost to less expensive foreign competitors and nonunion producers. This results in companies having to cut back on production, which caused some workers to lose their jobs and hence unions have lost some of their members. Today's workers also tend to be more highly educated and tend to be of the professional white collar class. All of these have decreased union membership. 
   The percent of the workforce in 1948 that were in the unions was about 31.8 percent. In 2004, in the private sector it dropped to 7.9 percent, and in the total workforce it was 12.5 percent. So we know that the numbers are coming down and coming down dramatically. That is why the folks have gone after this bill to try to force people to join the unions by having them simply sign a card and not allow them to be able to have a vote. 
   As I said before, the hypocrisy that runs rampant in this place is mind-boggling. Bills get called one thing and they do something just the opposite. The Employee Free Choice Act doesn't provide employees free choice. It does just the opposite. 
   We have had lots of groups and lots of editorials against this bill, many, many people saying this is absolutely the wrong way to go. 
   I want to enter into the Record today an article from The Wall Street Journal from February 2. I am going to read some quotes from it, but I want to put the entire article in, because I think the comments are so pertinent.  
   Abrogating Workers' Rights  
   Why is the new Congress in such a hurry to take away workers' right to vote? It seems extraordinary, but the so-called ``Employee Free Choice Act'' is right there near the top of the Democrats' agenda. This legislation replaces government-sponsored secret ballot elections for union representation with a public card-signing system. 
   Under the act, once a union gets a majority of the workers to sign a card expressing a desire for a union, that union is automatically certified as the bargaining representative of, and empowered to negotiate on behalf of, all workers. In the 28 states that do not have right-to-work laws, all employees would typically end up having to join the union or pay the equivalent of union dues whether or not they signed the card. Moreover, under the act, the bargaining process would be shortened, with mandatory use of the Federal Mediation Service after 90 days and an imposed contract through binding arbitration 30 days after that. 
   I am sympathetic to the argument that strengthening the negotiating position of workers is good public policy, and that expanding the choices available to them is the best way to accomplish that. So, for example, pension portability unlocks the golden handcuffs that financially bind workers to jobs they may become dissatisfied with after they have become vested. Health savings accounts are an important first step to liberating people from jobs they put up with only because they fear a disruption in health-care coverage. 
   When it comes to unions, it doesn't take a very deep appreciation of game theory to understand that a worker's best position comes when a nonunion company has a union knocking on the door. Indeed, one allegation about ``union busting'' by supporters of the bill is that, during union certification elections, one employer in five ``gave illegal previously unscheduled wage increases while a similar number made some kind of illegal unilateral change in benefits or working conditions.'' 
   In other words, they made workers better off. But, never fear, the Employee Free Choice Act will limit these unconscionable increases in pay, benefits and working conditions by imposing fines of up to $20,000 against employers who make such ``unilateral changes.'' Similar penalties will be assessed against employers who caution that unionization may cause them to shut down or move production elsewhere. 
   Sometimes the interests of workers and unions coincide, sometimes they do not. The chief complaint by the bill's sponsors is that unions only win secret-ballot elections half of the time. Apparently workers, after they think things over and when neither the union nor the company knows how they vote, often decide they are better-off without the union. The solution of the Employee Free Choice Act is to do away with such elections. It is hard to see how that ``empowers'' workers. And it is hard not to conclude that this bill has little to do with employee choice or maximizing employee leverage, and everything to do with empowering union bosses and organizers. 
   The unions allege that companies use unfair election campaign tactics and that a pro-employer National Labor Relations Board doesn't punish them. But statistics cited by the leftwing Web site, Daily Kos, on behalf of this allegation come from 1998 and 1999--when the entire NLRB had been appointed by President Clinton. In any event, roughly half the injunctions brought against companies by the NLRB were overturned by federal courts: This does not suggest under-enforcement of the law by the NLRB. 
   All of this does not mean that there are no legitimate complaints about the union certification process. Companies have been found that fired workers for union organizing activities. One careful examination of NLRB data found that there were 62 such cases in fiscal 2005. This is not a large number in a work force of 140 million, or in a year where there were more than 2,300 certification elections. But it is 62 too many, and it would be reasonable to stiffen the penalties for employers who break the law. But it is hard to think of offering more pay or better worker conditions as something that should be punished with draconian penalties, as the Employee Free Choice Act does. 
   Most important, it is totally unreasonable to deny all 140 million American workers the right to a secret ballot election because some employers break the law. Not only is such a remedy disproportionate, it is counterproductive--if one's goal is worker empowerment. How can a worker be better off if both his employer and his prospective union boss know his views on the union when the secret ballot is replaced with a public card signing? For the worker it is the ultimate example of being caught between a rock and a hard place. 
   The political rhetoric in support of this bill is a willful exercise in obfuscation. For example, on the presidential campaign stump John Edwards says, ``if you can join the Republican Party by just signing a card, you should be able to join a union by just signing a card.'' The fact is, you--and everyone else--can join any union you want by just signing a card, and paying union dues and meeting any other obligations imposed by the union. But, under this bill, contrary to Mr. Edwards's false analogy, signing a card to join the Republican Party does not oblige you to vote for the Republican ticket in a secret ballot election. The Employee Free Choice Act would take care of that by abolishing such elections. If the Edwards principle was applied to the political process in the 28 non-right-to-work states, Karl Rove and Republican Party organizers could force all Democrats and independents to become Republicans and pay dues to the party if a majority of voters signed Republican Party cards. That is free choice? 
   The final proof that this bill is about union power, and not worker choice, is revealed by its treatment of the flip side of unionization: decertification elections. These are secret ballot elections in which workers get to decide that they have had enough of the union. So under the Employee Free Choice Act can a majority of workers decertify the union by signing a card? Not on your life. Here unions want the chance to engage in a campaign to give workers both sides of the story--and maybe do a better job of representing them--before the union's fate is decided, by a secret-ballot vote. 
   No one has ever argued that secret-ballot elections are a perfect mechanism, either in politics or in deciding unionization. But they are far and away the best mechanism we have devised to minimize intimidation and maximize the power of the people who really matter, whether citizen or worker. Congress should think a lot harder before it decides to do away with workers' right to vote.  
   Mr. Speaker, the article starts, ``Why is the new Congress in such a hurry to take away workers' right to vote? It seems extraordinary, but the so-called Employee Free Choice Act is right  there near the top of the Democrat's agenda. This legislation replaces government-sponsored secret ballot elections for union representation with a public card-signing system.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, another reason union membership is down is because of the abuses of the unions, and, as I said before, because our economy is so good. We know that we have the best economy we have had in 50 years and people don't need the unions in the way they needed them before. 
   There was a time probably in the early part of the last century when there was a need for unions. There were worker abuses, and that is very unfortunate. But we know that era is gone, and we don't need that anymore. So we know that we don't need the unions, and people are voting with their feet. 
   There is another quote that I want to share with you from The Wall Street Journal, which comes toward the end of the article, which points out another part of the hypocrisy of this bill. Let me again quote from the Wall Street Journal article, because I think it says it very well: 
   ``The final proof that this bill is about union power, and not worker choice, is revealed by its treatment of the flip side of unionization: Decertification elections. These are secret ballot elections in which workers get to decide that they have had enough of the union. So under the Employee Free Choice Act can a majority of workers decertify the union by signing a card? Not on your life. Here unions want the chance to engage in a campaign to give workers both sides of the story, and maybe do a better job of representing them, before the union's fate is decided by a secret ballot vote.'' 
   You see, they oppose a card check for decertification of the union. That is just not right. If they want it one way, why don't they want to allow it the other way? 
   The last paragraph says, ``No one has ever argued that secret ballot elections are a perfect mechanism, either in politics or in deciding unionization. But they are far and away the best mechanism we have devised to minimize intimidation and maximize the power of the people who really matter, whether citizen or worker. Congress should think a lot harder before it decides to do away with workers' right to vote.'' 
   Again, I cannot think of anything more undemocratic than saying to people, ``We are going to allow you to be intimidated into joining a union. We are taking away your right to vote in a secret ballot election. We don't think secret ballots are the right way to go in the greatest republic in the world. We do think that secret ballots are the way to go in Mexico, but we don't think that they are the way to go in the United States of America.'' Again, it is unbelievable to me that these people can stand up and say it. 
   I want to say again, who are the people who supported this bill and point out the kind of folks that these people are associating with and say again that the fact that the communist party of the U.S. is one of the major supporters of this bill should tell us a lot about what this bill is doing. 
   Elections in communist countries are not like elections in this country. There aren't choices given to people. They don't have free elections. What they do is have the kind of election that is going to come about by people doing a card check for these union elections, and that is the kind of election that they want there. 
   We have heard again comments made over and over again by the people who have supported this bill, but I want to say to you, I am sorry I don't have the Official Truth Squad emblem up here tonight, because we could have both of them here. We need to set the record straight on what is being said. 
   Doing this bill, if this bill were to pass the Senate and become law, it would be one of the greatest travesties against American workers that has been done in this country, and it would be done by people who say that they support American workers.     
   It would be done by people who treat American workers as though they are helpless individuals, unable to do anything for themselves, unable to walk away if they don't like a job, unable to bring a suit against someone who might have discriminated against them. 
   Again, I don't want anybody to think that I would ever tolerate anyone being discriminated against or anyone being mistreated; I don't support that in any way. However, that is not what is behind this. What is behind this is power and money. These people have been bought by the unions. The unions got them into office, and they are now asking for their payback. And that is exactly what is happening here. And that isn't the way it is supposed to be done. 
   Our folks on the other side of the aisle have railed against that in the past. They rail against it when they accuse us of doing that, but they are doing it in ways that are really unconscionable, in my opinion. 
   And, again, I want to quote from the letter that 16 Members of Congress sent to Mexico where they said: ``We feel that the secret ballot is absolutely necessary in order to ensure that workers are not intimidated into voting for a union they might not otherwise choose.'' 
   I cannot, again, hear how they can justify wanting the people in Mexico to be able to have the secret ballot to vote for a union and take that right away from our great American workers who want the same right for themselves. 
   I hope that the Senate will do the right thing and vote this bill down, if it even ever comes up for a vote, and say to the American workers, and hear what Republicans are saying: we respect American workers. We will do everything we possibly can to protect your rights. We are not going to take away from you the right to a secret ballot. That is simply wrong in the greatest Republic that has ever existed in the world. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (RECOGNIZING APPALACHIAN STATE UNIVERSITY MOUNTAINEERS AND WAKE FOREST DEMON DEACONS -- (House of Representatives - January 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the extraordinary efforts of the Appalachian State Mountaineers football team, who recently defeated the Massachusetts Minutemen in a 28-17 victory. What makes this a magnificent triumph is that this is the second straight year the Mountaineers have brought home the NCAA Division 1 football championship subdivision, formerly recognized as Division 1-AA. The Mountaineers finished their season with a 14-1 record, losing only their first game of the season and going undefeated all the way through to the championship game after that. 
   I am honored to represent Appalachian State University, as they have not only a stellar academic program but also have succeeded in athletics as well. This shows the diversity and accomplishments of Appalachian State as they exemplify a true student body where life lessons are learned through extracurricular activities as well as rigorous academic study. 
   I am pleased to recognize the momentous accomplishments of junior Kevin Richardson who scored all four touchdowns and had 179 rushing yards that led the Mountaineers to victory in the championship game. Although Massachusetts had started the game with an early lead, the Mountaineers persevered, worked as a team, and never gave up. 
   The Mountaineers had tremendous support from their fellow classmates, alumni and residents of Boone, North Carolina. Not only have they received this support on their home field, Kidd Brewer Stadium, the gridiron, but also when the Mountaineers traveled for their games. At the playoff game, an enormous crowd of 22,808 included over 15,000 Appalachian State Black and Gold dressed fans at Finley Stadium in Chattanooga, Tennessee. With great anticipation of another Mountaineer victory, the attendance set a record for Finley Stadium at the University of Tennessee where the game was played. While the game was played and won by the Appalachian State football team, the tremendous support of friends, family, alumni and North Carolina residents set an exciting tone and surely assisted the team by showing their dedicated support. Also notable was that this was the 12th time in the 15 games this season that the Mountaineers played before a sold out crowd. 
   I extend my deepest congratulations to all the Mountaineers who played with dedication, perseverance and, most of all, heart. I also applaud the tremendous coaching staff, including head coach Jerry Moore, who has been with Appalachian State University for 18 years, serving the athletic program with enthusiasm and steadfast commitment. His service, along with the entire coaching staff, has been invaluable in guiding the team to their great successes. 
   Congratulations, again, Appalachian State Mountaineers for your tremendous success in back to back NCAA titles. You are definitely a source of pride for western North Carolina. 
   It is also my pleasure to commend the Wake Forest Demon Deacon football team on an outstanding season. Prior to the start of the season, the Deacons were predicted to finish last in their division of the Atlantic Coast Conference. However, they were not discouraged by these predictions and actually seemed to revel in the role of the underdog. Ultimately, Wake Forest shocked the Nation by finishing the regular season 11-2, which placed them at the top of the Atlantic Division in the ACC. They then defeated the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets in the Atlantic Coast Conference Champion game, making Wake Forest ACC champions for the first time since 1970. 
   Much of the team's success this year is due to its resilience, tenacity, and impeccable coaching. Wake Forest coach Jim Grobe was unanimously named ACC Coach of the Year and beat out a strong group of national contenders to be named the 2006 NCAA National Coach of the Year. Coach Grobe and the Deacons battled injuries to several key players, including their starting quarterback and starting tailback, but bounced back in the face of adversity to set a school record for victories. 
   After such an unbelievable season, no one was surprised when the Deacons  were chosen to play the 2007 Orange Bowl. The reigning ACC champs traveled down to Miami, with their fans in tow, to face the champions of the Big East Conference, the Louisville Cardinals. Wake Forest came into the game well prepared and played like the champions they are. While Louisville emerged victorious, Wake fans and players alike left Miami with their heads held high, proud of a season full of accomplishments. 
   The Orange Bowl culminated a magical season for the Demon Deacons, one that Wake fans will never forget. Finishing the regular season 11-2, serving Florida State its first-ever shutout at home under the leadership of Coach Bobby Bowden, winning the ACC championship and appearing in the Orange Bowl can be considered highlights. But by no means could these achievements capture the spirit and the emotion of this phenomenal season for the Wake Forest Demon Deacons. The sentiments of this season can best be summed up in the 10 minutes following the Orange Bowl on January 2. Even though the Deacons lost, Wake fans remained in the stands after the game, standing and cheering in support of the team that brought them so much joy this season as Wake players walked to their side of the stadium to thank the fans for their steadfast support. 
   This relationship underlines what it means to be a Deacon fan. Wins and losses ultimately aren't all that matter, but rather the sense of pride and family that comes along with being a Deacon is what makes the Wake Forest team and the fans such a special group. 
   Mr. Speaker, I just want to say, Go Deacs.  
   There may have been a few tears shed in Dolphins Stadium following this year's Orange Bowl, but they were not tears of sadness. They were tears of pride and accomplishment, and they were very hard earned. 
   Congratulations to Wake Forest, and best of luck next season. We know it will be every bit as exciting as this one. Go Deacs!  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (AMERICAN ENERGY SOLUTIONS FOR LOWER GAS PRICES -- (House of Representatives - July 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, Congressman Westmoreland, it's a treat to be here with these Georgians tonight, I guess we will call it southern night. We certainly do understand each other when we are speaking. 
   I was pleased to hear Congressman Gingrey saying, quoting his constituents, saying, why won't you all do something about this? Well, I hear that kind of question all the time too. It takes a real practiced tongue to say it the right way too. 
   But I think it's important, as you are pointing out, that we distinguish who is in charge here. We see a lot of polls being done, and we know that many Americans don't realize that the Democrats are completely in charge of the Congress. Now they want to put the blame for this problem on the President and Vice President, but we know the President and Vice President can't pass laws. It's only the Congress that can do this, and the Democrats are in charge of the Congress. 
   I was over here several nights last week making that point. I think it is very, very much up to us to point out to the American people that it's the Democrats who are in charge. 
   They are the ones who can help solve this situation, but they seem totally out of touch. They don't understand, I think, what is going on at the polls. When you have people in Congress who have been in Congress for over 50 years, and some of their chairmen have been here over 50 years, many of them have been here 40 years, many of them 30 years, I think they are totally out of touch with the American people. 
   They are not used to buying their own gas, they don't go home on weekends, they don't hear from their constituents in the same way that we do. We know that they are the ones in charge, and they can do something about this. They, again, want to deflect the problem, but we have the statistics on our side, and I think we have to keep reminding the people about that. 
   When people ask me why, why won't the Congress do something, you know, I don't really have a good answer for them. I am wondering if it's because they are so out of touch, and they don't know how the American people are suffering as a result of the high gas prices. I am not usually a person who thinks in nefarious ways, but I wonder if sometimes they don't want the people to be as miserable as possible, because they think they can blame the President, and they can blame the vice president for what's happening. 
   That's the only answer I can come up with. I can't really understand why the Democrats, who claim to represent average people, want the average people to suffer the way that they do. 
   I didn't get a chance to hear all of the comments that my colleague from California, Mr. McCarthy said, when he was on the floor earlier, but I do want to put in a plug for our drilling in Alaska, for our drilling wherever we need to. 
   The Democrats keep saying we can't drill our way out of this. We can't drill our way out of this. 
   But I do believe, like my Republican colleagues, that it's important that we take advantage of the great gifts that the good Lord has given us in this country to use on our behalf. We have the mechanisms to be energy independent with American-made energy. 
   I want to point out, again, that even the newspapers are calling on the Congress, but not all of them are pointing out that it's the Democrats, some do. The Las Vegas Review Journal says, ``The ball is with Congress, will Democrats continue to block the development of energy resources?'' 
   That is such an important question to ask, and it's important again that every newspaper in this country point out that it is the Democrats that are blocking the development of resources. The Lafayette Daily Advertiser in Louisiana, ``Congress should back drilling.'' Now, the Republicans do back drilling. The Democrats do not. 
   The Daily Inter Lake in Montana. ``Drilling, will Congress ever act?'' We need to point out again that they should be saying, Will the democratically-controlled Congress ever act? 
   Newspaper after newspaper is coming out and saying that we, Congress, need to act on this. It is not the Republicans who are in charge. The President and the Vice President can't do anything about this. As my colleague from Georgia said earlier, drilling and creating our own energy will create millions of jobs in this country. 
   Again, the Democrats claim to be the party that wants to create jobs, that wants to help average Americans, but they are standing in the way of doing all of that. 
   You know, I have jokingly said here that they think they are so powerful that they can repeal the law of supply and demand. Now, that's what they think. They think that just through conservation efforts and just by talking, you know, it's sort of like the Wizard of Oz. There is nothing really behind that screen. They promised us a commonsense plan to bring down the price of gasoline.     
   The chart that my colleague showed a little while ago, the price of gasoline has almost doubled since the Democrats were in office. I don't know what the American people would have gotten had they made some other kinds of promises, but promising to bring down the price and then doubling the price--you know, I go back to the quote that was used by Mr. Kanjorski: ``We sort of stretched the truth and people ate it up.'' Well, that is what they are doing now, too, about the leases. They are saying, oh, we don't need to drill. The oil companies have all these leases that they are not using. But I think it is important that we debunk that. We had the Truth Squad last year. We have got to bring the Truth Squad out again. 
   The oil companies do have some land that has been leased, but the oil companies report to their shareholders they are not going to waste good money drilling where there is no oil or no potential for getting oil. Even the Democrats voted against this ridiculous ``Use It Or Lose It'' bill that they brought up for the second time last week. 
   Again, I think we have to remind the American people, we could produce enough energy in this country to become totally energy independent. We need to start now, but we need to remind them, the Democrats are in charge. Call your Democratic Member of Congress if you are represented by a Democrat, and tell them, you want them to drill now. You want them to do all the alternatives. 
   We Republicans support conservation. We support all of the above. But we can do it. We have always done it. And I now yield back my time to my colleague from Georgia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (START ADDRESSING THE PRIORITIES OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, during the first months of this new Congress, Democrats have passed resolutions congratulating sports teams and renaming post offices, along with the largest tax increase in American history. But they've done nothing to lower the tax burden on hardworking American families, enact legislation to address skyrocketing gasoline prices, or enact legislation to secure our borders. 
   I know what my district needs. Families in my district want a lower tax bill. They want us to spend their tax dollars sparingly and wisely. My constituents want to pay less for gas at  the pump. They want to know our borders are secure, and that our ports and airports are safe from terrorists. 
   It's time for this Congress to start addressing the priorities of the American public. It's time we stopped passing resolutions congratulating sports teams and started enacting legislation into law. 
   I urge my Democrat colleagues not to continue to languish as a do-nothing Congress, but to let us start enacting some of the legislative priorities of our constituents into law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CELEBRATING THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE TOWN OF RONDA -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of the centennial of the town of Ronda, North Carolina. This week, Ronda celebrates the 100th anniversary of its 1907 incorporation. 
   Ronda, a thriving community in Wilkes County, North Carolina, is home to a rich heritage of hardworking families, and I am very proud to represent them. 
   The town traces its roots all the way back to 1779, when the surrounding area was deeded to Benjamin Cleveland in what would become the eastern part of Wilkes County. 
   Cleveland established a farming operation which became known as Roundabout Farm, named for the way the Yadkin River cut through the land around the farm. As these things usually turn out, the term Roundabout was shortened and the name Ronda was born. 
   Manufacturing operations and agriculture have played a large role in the town's 100-year history, making Ronda one of the economic epicenters of Wilkes County during the past century. While the town of Ronda has certainly seen its share of economic storms, it remains a strong and united American community today. 
   I wish to honor this fine North Carolina community for its steadfast commitment to the small town values that help make this Nation great. Happy centennial, Ronda. Here's to 100 more years of small town living. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, my amendment would reduce funding for the Department of Energy Departmental Administration to the fiscal year 2007 level. This amendment would save $28 million, reducing the account from $304.782 million to $276.832 million, the fiscal year 2007 enacted level. 
   The Energy and Water appropriations bill is already $1.1 billion over the President's request. This amendment would reduce the funding in the Departmental Administration account, putting it at last year's enacted level. The bill provides a 10 percent increase for DOE's Departmental Administration account. 
   There has been at least $105.5 billion in new Federal spending over the next 5 years authorized by the House Democratic leadership this year. In enacting the largest tax increase in American history, the Democrats' budget allows for $28 billion in spending over that of the President's budget request. 
   This amendment is designed to save the taxpayers almost $30 million, just a small dent in the unnecessary increases in Federal spending this year, which is being fueled by huge tax increases. We've constantly heard on the floor, around this bill especially, the problem of increased rules and regulations. What happens when you have additional administrators? What you are going to get are more rules and more regulations. 
   We are constantly adding administrative costs to all of the Federal Government. I think we can make a very small dent, but an important dent, in our deficit spending by cutting these funds. This should not hurt at all the administration of the Department and the administration of programs. 
   If we were going to put in additional funding anywhere, we ought to put that money in for direct services and not for administration. We hear more and more about too much administration in the education field, but I think we have it all over the Federal Government, State governments, local governments. 
   We are talking about deficits, not surpluses. If we had a huge surplus in this country, we might be wanting to talk about spending additional money. But we don't need to be doing that. This will benefit the taxpayers all over this country. And what we need to do is to cut spending, not increase spending. That is what we heard all last year from the majority party. I am surprised that we aren't continuing to hear it this year. When they are in charge, they want to spend lots of money. 
   So, Mr. Chairman, I respectfully ask my colleagues to support this, which would save $28 million and make a small dent in our deficit. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING THE LIFE OF ERNEST GALLO -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Today we honor the lifetime achievements of Ernest Gallo, one of the most celebrated American winemakers of the last century. 
   Ernest Gallo was the eldest of three brothers, born in the Sierra Nevada foothills of California to Italian immigrants. He and his brothers grew up learning about vineyards and winemaking from their father. Upon their parents' untimely death in 1933, Ernest and his brother Julio took control of the family business. Learning from library-issued pamphlets on winemaking, their goal was to make their company nationally known for affordable and quality wine. They founded E. & J. Gallo Winery with a humble investment of $5,900. Over time they went on to develop one of the largest wine empires in the world, now employing 4,600 workers and selling to 90 different countries. In fact, his winery currently sells one out of every four bottles of wine that Americans now consume. 
   Along with founding E. & J. Gallo Winery, Ernest Gallo often supported the industry through philanthropic work. He founded the Gallo Center for the Arts in Modesto. He established the Ernest Gallo Clinic and Research Center at the University of California at San Francisco, which conducts numerous studies and research for genetic, biochemical, and neurobiological aspects of alcohol abuse, as well as health care and education related to alcohol use. 
   Along with great financial success, Ernest Gallo and his winery won numerous prestigious awards, including the wine industry's highest honor, the American Society of Enologists Merit Award, in 1964 for outstanding leadership in the industry. They won the Gold Vine Award, the 1983 Distinguished Service Award from Wine Spectator, and the Winery of the Year Award in both 1996 and 1998 from the San Francisco International Wine Competition. 
   After a long and successful career as a winemaker, businessman, and philanthropist, Gallo passed away on March 6 at the age of 97 at his home in Modesto, California. His many distinguished accomplishments in the wine industry and his strong community involvement deserve to be recognized and honored by the Congress. 
   I urge all Members to support H. Con. Res. 88. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (REPUBLICAN TAX CUTS REDUCE THE TAX BURDEN ON AMERICANS -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, tomorrow is the day that Americans are required to pay their taxes. It is the last possible day in this year that they can do that. We call it ``tax day.'' It is normally on April 15th, but because of the calendar and because today is a holiday in the District of Columbia, it has been delayed. 
   I want to say something about the fact that our taxes are something that people feel obliged to pay the Federal Government and to State and local governments too, but many people do it grudgingly. We do it grudgingly because we feel concern about the way too many of our tax dollars are being spent. However, this year, taxpayers are paying less than they have paid before as a result of the tax cuts that have occurred in 2001 and 2003, tax cuts that were pushed through under a Republican Congress and asked for by a Republican President. 
   Children often ask me when I speak to them in school groups, what is the difference between Democrats and Republicans? I tell them that the most simple definition that I can give them is that Republicans believe that Americans should keep more of their money than Democrats do and that Democrats believe that very often the government is the answer to the problems that we have in this country, while Republicans think that individual Americans have the capability for solving most of their problems. So Republicans believe that the government that governs least governs best, and that is the philosophy that I have. 
   The tax cuts that were instituted in 2001 and 2003 were designed for Americans to keep more of their money than the government had been taking from them, and those tax cuts have been very effective. We see that our economy is doing extremely well as a result of those tax cuts. We have the lowest unemployment rate in this country in many, many years, the highest home-ownership rate, the highest level of income in many, many years; and just on and on and on the economic indicators go that are very, very positive in this country. Those are as a result of the tax cuts. 
   Democrats will talk about ``investing in government.'' Well, we don't invest in government when we give money to the government to spend. Our investments come from individual Americans who are entrepreneurs who create new jobs and create new businesses. That is where investments come from, and that is where a good return on investments come from. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Nebraska. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (REPUBLICAN TAX CUTS REDUCE THE TAX BURDEN ON AMERICANS -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to thank my colleague. He is in his first term in Congress, but he speaks very, very eloquently of this issue and other issues. I am very grateful to him for his sharing his concerns and his perspective on this. 
   As I said earlier, when people ask me what is the difference between a Democrat and a Republican, I say, well, Republicans think that you should keep more of your money and spend it and take care of yourself; and Democrats want to take more of your money away from you and give it to the government. And let me give you an example of what is happening. I don't have to just talk about that in the abstract; I can talk about it in concrete terms. 
   The tax decreases that were put through by a Republican Congress and advocated by a Republican President are due to expire in 2010 because of the rules of the Senate, which would not allow those tax cuts to be made permanent. Now, 2 weeks ago, the Democrats, who are now in a majority here in the House, and our Constitution requires that spending bills and budget bills have to begin in the House, they passed their budget. It passed, and it assumes that the 2001/2003 tax cuts will expire. The effect of that will be to impose the largest tax increase in American history, nearly $400 billion over 5 years, mainly to finance their immense new spending. And as my colleague from Nebraska said, we have to be very much concerned about the long term, and we are concerned about the long term. 
   Now, if the Republican tax relief is not extended, what happens when the clock strikes midnight on December 31, 2010? Well, here's what happens: the tax rates are going to go higher. In 2010, the top income tax rate will be 35 percent. The Democrats propose that that tax rate goes to 39.6 percent in 2011. The capital gains tax, 15 percent in 2010, 20 percent immediately thereafter. The tax on dividends, from 15 percent to 39.6 percent. The death tax: the death tax has been gradually going down since the tax cuts of 2001/2003. In the year 2010, the death tax will be zero. In 2011, it goes back to 55 percent. 
   I am particularly offended by the death tax, and I think most Americans are. It is probably the third time that that same income is going to be taxed when you impose a death tax, because we are paying taxes on our income, if you have an opportunity to invest any of that money you are going to pay capital gains tax on it, and then you are going to pay 55 percent on whatever is left over. Again, I think it is a particularly offensive tax to most Americans. 
   But how do the Democrats, who talk so much about the value of children, act about the child tax credit? The child tax credit went to $1,000 under the tax cuts of 2001/2003. It will be cut back to $500. We all know that you can't raise children even on $1,000 as a tax credit, let alone on $500. 
   The lowest tax bracket, hurting the lowest income people in our country, and Democrats say that they stand for the little people and they want to help the low-income people in this country, but what they propose to do is take the taxes on the lowest income people in our country and go from 10 percent to 15 percent. I think, again, that is an abomination. Why in the world do we want to burden those folks who are making the lowest income in this country? 
   Another part of the problem that we have in this country is the fact that our Tax Code is so complicated. We believe now that more than 60 percent of tax returns are prepared by a professional. If you add the number of Americans who use computer tax software to file a return, the proportion of people who seek outside help rises to 90 percent. We shouldn't live in a country where the Tax Code is so complicated that the average American citizen cannot complete his or her income tax forms. 
   The Office of Management and Budget estimates that we spend about 6.4 billion hours, and we did in 2006, complying with the Federal Tax Code. That many hours is the equivalent of a 40-hour work week for every employed person in America. Take your pick: do your taxes or go on a week-long vacation. 
   While the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 have lowered taxes across the board and encouraged investments that lead to job creation, we are still saddled with an incomprehensible Tax Code that costs more than $265 billion a year to comply with. 
   As a supporter of the Taxpayer Bill of Rights, I pledge to work towards scrapping the Tax Code in order to build a new one that promotes transparency and common sense. By signing on to the Taxpayer Bill of Rights, I have also promised to work to balance the budget, to exercise the fiscal discipline needed to rein in the growth of the Federal Government, and to protect the Social Security trust fund from congressional raiding. 
   Let me say something about Social Security here, even though we're talking about taxes today. 
   Many people don't understand the or origin of the Social Security fund. After the Depression, President Roosevelt was desperate to raise money for the social programs that he wanted to institute in this country, but he knew that if he wanted to raise taxes that would raise a hew and cry among the people. At that time, 1936/1937, the average life expectancy of Americans was 59 years. People still weren't living very long in this country. We had come a long way from the early part of the century, but still life expectancy was only 59 years of age. So they came up with a scheme to take money away from Americans and have it available to spend on social programs, and they came up with a Social Security fund. It was for every American to pay a small amount. It was designed to provide a retirement income, or at least that is the way it was sold to the American people. But what most people didn't realize again at the time, the life expectancy was 59 years of age. And when did they set Social Security up to be redeemed? Age 65. The idea was that they would take in a lot of money to develop the programs that they wanted to develop, and that very few people would ever draw on Social Security for their retirement. So that's why the average age was set at 65, way beyond the average life expectancy for Americans at the time. 
   And immediately the money was going into other programs other than into what most Americans thought would happen, which was a fund to pay for Social Security. That has continued to the present time under both Democrats and, I am sorry to say, under Republicans. Rather than putting that money into a special fund and leaving it alone just to pay for Social Security, most of that money is going into paying for government programs, and those programs have become dependent on that Social Security money, which  is why you find people very reluctant to create that mythical lock box that has been talked about so much. But we now have groups who are trying very hard to make sure that the money being paid into Social Security stays in the Social Security account. That's what I believe in, and I think that is what most Americans believe in. 
   The President proposed personal accounts so that people could take an interest in where their Social Security money was going and manage that money better than the Federal Government has been able to manage it. That has been demonized as a way to do something bad with the Social Security fund. But if people had a way to manage their own money, they would get a lot more from Social Security. 
   The average Social Security payment right now is about $1,000 a month, and I know of very, very few people who can live on that. And we know that Social Security is going to be in deep trouble in the next few years because there will be more people drawing on Social Security than are paying into Social Security. So not only are we going to have to come up with the money to pay for Social Security; we are going to have to either cut the funding that is dependent on the Social Security money or cut out programs or raise taxes. Republicans are opposed to raising taxes and continuing to fund those programs, most of which were begun in the 1930s. 
   What people can do in this country is to sign an online petition with the grass-roots group Freedom Works to support the initiative of the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. They can sign this petition at www.freedomworks.org/action/taxpayer. I am sure if you put in the words ``freedom works,'' you can probably find out how to get on to that. But we need to do everything we possibly can to keep the tax rate low, protect Social Security, and reduce the burden of government on our citizens. 
   I want to go back over the effects of the Democrat tax hike, which were in the budget that the Democrats passed 2 weeks ago here. They will be raising the 10 percent tax rate bracket to 15 percent. More than 15 million individuals and families, who previously owed no taxes under the Republican plan, would now become subject to the individual income tax if the Democrats were successful in raising the 10 percent tax rate bracket to 15 percent and reducing or eliminating other low-income tax benefits. 
   That budget eliminates the marriage penalty relief. Most Americans I think now know that if you are married and you file jointly, you pay a penalty for being married in this country. Twenty-three million taxpayers would see their taxes increase on average by approximately $500 when that goes into effect. As I said earlier, it would cut the child tax credit in half. Thirty-one million taxpayers would see their taxes increase on average by $859 when this goes into effect.     
   Elderly couples with $40,000 in income would see their tax bill rise by 156 percent from $583 to $1,489. And a single parent with two children and $30,000 in earnings would see their tax benefits decline by 67 percent. With tax relief, the single parent qualifies to get back $2,214. With the Democrat tax hike, this single parent would get back only $799. 
   So we would see a major impact on the American family with the effects of the budget that the Democrats passed here a couple of weeks ago. It is not the way we should be going in this country. 
   The tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 have brought us one of the most vibrant economies this country has ever seen. The stock market is at a new high. Home ownership is at a new high. Personal income is at a new high. Unemployment rates are at an all-time low. New business creations are at an all-time high. Job creations are at an all-time high. All of the things that should be positive in this country are positive; all of the things that should be negative are negative in terms of our economy, and those come as a result of the tax cuts that were made in 2001 and 2003. 
   I personally cannot take any credit for that because I was not here, but I applaud those who voted for those tax cuts in 2001 and 2003 because they have had an extremely positive effect on our economy and on American families. 
   I want to talk some more about the dysfunctional Tax Code that we have and the impact that it has on Americans. I mentioned earlier how much it costs to file income taxes and how much is being spent by Americans because they have to go to professionals to get their taxes done. But I want to put this into sort of an allegory. 
   Can you imagine a business that with every passing year grows more difficult to manage, gets harder for its customers to understand, and becomes increasingly susceptible to theft? You would be right to think that such an operation would quickly go out of business. 
   Unfortunately, this imaginary business is more of an apt description of the United States tax system. Every year the Federal Tax Code grows larger and more complex. New rules and guidelines are added. Deductions and special exemptions proliferate. As a result, each tax season more Americans are throwing up their hands in disgust and calling in a professional to do their taxes. 
   According to the IRS, more than 60 percent of tax returns are prepared by a professional; and if you add the number of Americans who use computer tax software to file a return, the proportion of people who seek outside help rises to 90 percent. 
   Congress puts out a little-known tax law report each session that serves as a chilling picture of the obscene complexity of our tax system. The most recent version entitled ``The General Explanation of Tax Legislation Enacted in the 109th Congress'' runs to 806 pages and purports to explain the 109th Congress' changes to tax law. As you might imagine, it is mind-numbing. That we need a publication of this size simply to explain the 109th Congress' Tax Code additions is ample evidence that we have a massive problem on our hands. 
   What ails our Tax Code is not just the fact that it is 7,000 pages long. Rather, the real ailment is the burden, above and beyond the actual financial burden of tax day, of complying with a chameleon Tax Code. 
   As I said earlier, the government's Office of Management and Budget estimated that we spent about 6.4 billion hours in 2006 complying with the Federal Tax Code. That many hours is the equivalent of a 40-hour work week for every employed person in America. While the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 have lowered taxes across the board and encouraged investments that lead to job creation, we are still saddled with an incomprehensible Tax Code that costs more than $265 billion to comply with each year. 
   Our tax professionals can't even understand it. I am sure you have read and heard the horror stories about how 10 different people will call the IRS to ask for an interpretation of a rule, and get 10 different interpretations. That, again, is a really sad commentary on our Tax Code that you can't call 10 employees from the IRS and get the same answer from 10 different people on a code that millions of us are supposed to be adhering to because the way the Tax Code is written is so incomprehensible. 
   While the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 have lowered taxes across the board and encouraged investments that lead to job creation, we are still saddled with this incomprehensible Tax Code. 
   The IRS reports that the tax gap, the difference between what people owe and what they pay is around $300 billion. This gap is composed of the cheaters and those who simply don't know any better because the system is too murky for the average taxpayer to accurately decipher. 
   Realities like the tax gap, the 6 billion hours of annual compliance time, and the thousands of pages of rules and regulations have led me to join with the approximately 100 fiscal conservatives of the Republican Study Committee in support of the American Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We need a taxpayer bill of rights passed. Many States have passed a taxpayer bill of rights, and we need to do that at the Federal level. 
   Those of us who have signed that pledge have pledged to work towards scrapping the Tax Code in order to build a new one that promotes transparency and commonsense. I have also promised to work to balance the budget. I have done that every chance that I have had since I have been in Congress, to exercise the fiscal discipline needed to rein in the growth of the Federal Government.  
   I want to say that 2 years ago, when we dealt with the Hurricane Katrina relief, I am very proud to say that I pushed for an offset in Federal spending at that time. We were faced with spending outside the budget, $52 billion in one fell swoop, to offer relief to the victims of Hurricane Katrina. We had no good plan for how that money was going to be spent, and we needed a plan. We did not have an offset set up when we first passed that $52 billion. I urged the Republican Study Committee to demand offsets. 
   In just a few weeks' period of time, we were able to come up with $39 billion in offsets to the $52 billion. We weren't able to come up with $52 billion, but we came up with $39 billion. One of my colleagues who gives me the credit for that, calls me the ``mother of offsets.'' It is a title I wear proudly. All of us need to be doing that here in the Congress. We all need to make sure that when we ask for any funding, that we are looking for ways to offset that funding, and certainly any new funding. 
   Unfortunately, the war supplemental that was passed 3 weeks ago did not have offsets in it because the rules here in the House say that emergency spending, such as the Katrina bill, don't have to have offsets in them; and yet our Democratic colleagues promised that in this session of Congress they would not do what the Republicans did and that was spend outside the budget and expand the growth of the Federal Government. 
   They just ignored that. They had $24 billion in new spending, pork-barrel spending, I would call it, spending to buy votes to pass the war supplemental, which were outside the budget and expanded the scope of spending, violating all of the promises that they made last year to do PAYGO. They found ways to get around those promises to pay as you go and not expand spending by putting it within the supplemental which was supposedly for the war and is emergency spending. That, to me, is one of the most cynical things that a person can do. 
   But as we file our taxes on April 17, we need to imagine the alternatives to piles of tax forms and schedules and endless hours calculating Uncle Sam's take. We need a system that is fair, simple and transparent. It is time for radical change in the way we collect taxes. 
   The first step is ditching the leviathan code we have inherited from decades of congressional tinkering and start a real tax debate over how to collect taxes responsibly, efficiently and fairly. I challenge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to bring forth legislation that will relieve the burden that so many Americans feel at this time of the year where they have to spend hours and hours and weeks at a time preparing their taxes and paying a lot more out to the Federal Government than we should be paying. 
   Many years ago I read an article in the Wall Street Journal where they had done a survey of every segment of our society and asked, what do you think would a fair amount of money that you should be paying to the Federal Government in taxes. Most people felt 25 percent was about the fair amount that they should pay, and they would pay that willingly. But once you get beyond that, then people begin to begrudge it and avoid trying to pay their taxes. 
   We have way too many people in this country at this stage of the game paying approximately 48 percent of all of their income in taxes at all three levels, so we are at twice the level that most people feel is the fair amount to pay. I think most people would say that much of their money is being wasted. Not only do they think that they should pay only approximately 25 percent, but they want to know that the Federal Government is spending their money wisely. 
   I want to say that as far as I am concerned what we should be doing at the Federal level is funding primarily defense, the Federal system of interstate highways, and national parks. Beyond that, we should not be doing it. 
   Our Constitution shows that the things that are not mentioned in the Constitution, and in the 10th amendment we say those things not mentioned in the Constitution are the responsibility of the States. What we have done at the Federal level is we have taken on many, many more responsibilities than the framers and the founders of this country envisioned that we would do. What we need to do is step back, look at what we are funding at the Federal Government level and say, is it constitutional, is it something that we should be funding, and if not, then how can we get out of funding this and allow the States to do it. If it is a project that is worthy to be funded, then the States and localities should be doing it and not the Federal Government. 
   Our Federal Government was formed to provide for the defense of this Nation. The States and localities cannot do that; only the Federal Government can do it. That is our responsibility. 
   When people talk about the fact that we are taking money from education and putting it into the war effort, that is not accurate. We should not be funding education at all at the Federal level because that is not one of the parts of the Constitution that we should be funding. So I say if we could take the Federal Government back to its roots, to those things that we should be funding, then we would be able to lower the tax burden tremendously because much of the money that is taken at the Federal level is wasted. 
   President Jefferson said: ``The government which governs least governs best,'' and I think that is accurate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (LIEUTENANT TODD JASON BRYANT POST OFFICE -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Lieutenant Todd Jason Bryant was a proud and loyal American who served his country in fighting the war on terror. He made the ultimate sacrifice, defending freedom and liberty, when he lost his life on October 31, 2003, in Iraq. 
   Todd Jason Bryant was born in Long Beach, California, on January 14, 1980. As a young student, he was very athletic and always involved in school activities. During high school, he played football and golf, and also played the tuba in the marching band. He was the youngest of three and was determined to follow in his siblings' path by enlisting in the military. 
   At 17, he joined the Army Reserves and completed boot camp before graduating from high school. He received his nomination to West Point Academy from the sponsor of this bill, Congressman Ken Calvert. He graduated from West Point in 2003 with a degree in political science. He had said before his death that he dreamed of being either a Member of Congress or a high school football coach. 
   His military training took him to installations in Kentucky and Kansas. Only 9 days before Lieutenant Bryant was sent to support Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2003, he happily wed Jenifer Reardon in Pittston, Pennsylvania. 
   On Friday, October 31, 2003, at the age of 23, Lieutenant Bryant was killed when a rocket-propelled grenade struck his Humvee while on patrol in Fallujah. Lieutenant Todd Bryant was an ambitious man who was able to accomplish much in his short but meaningful lifetime. Among his military awards are the Bronze Star, Purple Heart, Meritorious Service Medal, National Defense Service Medal and the Army Service Ribbon. 
   Lieutenant Bryant will always be remembered as a fun-loving, humorous, cheerful, proud and loyal friend, husband, son and brother. He brought joy to all those around him, easily making friends through his contagious laughter. 
   Lieutenant Bryant was honored to serve his country, and he served it well. Let us honor his ultimate sacrifice by renaming this post office for him.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF FINANCIAL LITERACY MONTH -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Today many Americans do not know how to balance a checkbook, intelligently invest their money or financially plan for their retirement. Studies have shown that few young adults living in this country know how to responsibly use a credit card. This is a time when debt is on the rise and savings have dropped to negative 1 percent of personal income. It is clear that teaching financial literacy is imperative for individuals to learn how to manage their money, credit and debt. 
   While many States require high schools to teach financial education, increased economic education is still necessary. H. Res. 273 recognizes the goals and ideals of Financial Literacy Month and raises awareness of the importance of financial education. It is our hope that the President calls on the government, States and other organizations to observe the month with relevant programs and activities supporting financial education. 
   Learning about saving and investing is especially important for today's young generation because of the uncertainty of the future of Social Security. More so than ever, private savings play a larger role in determining one's retirement. While there may be Social Security reform in the coming years, everyone must be able to adequately plan their savings for the future. 
   Financial education has proven to be very effective. Simple projects such as stock market simulations help young people understand how to invest in stocks, bonds and mutual funds. It is our hope they will retain these skills when they begin investing their own money. 
   Organizations such as the Jump$tart Coalition for Personal Finance Literacy help spread awareness, especially in school-age children. The National Council on Economic Education has established many programs which give teachers the tools to teach their students basic economic skills and help them apply their knowledge to daily life. These groups recognize the need for more widespread financial literacy, but it is necessary for Congress to place more emphasis on this idea and encourage other organizations to begin to participate in this movement as well. 
   With a solid background knowledge of financial literacy, we can raise America's youth to become responsible employees, heads of households, investors, entrepreneurs and business leaders. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING SERGEANT HOWARD PLOUFF -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of SGT Howard Plouff who was killed last month while answering the call for help from sheriffs deputies in Winston-Salem. Sergeant Plouff was known as an honorable man who selflessly served his family and community for more than 17 years in the Winston-Salem Police Department. 
   He was dedicated to community development and service. He was an assistant coach in the Southwest Forsyth Little League and was a member of the Holy Family Catholic Church in Clemmons. His is a legacy of the spirit of service that permeates this great country, and I am saddened by the profound loss that his death will be to his family, his police colleagues, his friends and our community. 
   He grew up on Long Island in New York City. He joined the Winston-Salem Police Department in 1989 and was promoted to sergeant in 1999. 
   Sergeant Plouff's career as a police officer was punctuated by his commitment to serving our community in North Carolina with distinction and honor. He earned the respect of his fellow officers and did not hesitate to go above and beyond the call of duty. In fact, during his time with the Winston-Salem Police Department, he was awarded its highest honor, the Medal of Valor, in 2003 for helping to prevent the suicide of a woman who had threatened to jump to her death from her apartment building. His death leaves a gaping hole not only with his family but within the ranks of Winston-Salem's Police Department. 
   He left behind a loving wife, Joyce, who is a third grade teacher at Southwest Elementary School, and his 13-year-old daughter, Brandy, and 11-year-old daughter, Holly. 
   Mr. Speaker, my thoughts and prayers are with Sergeant Plouff's wife and daughters and his extended family. May God bless them and comfort them during this difficult time. The city of Winston-Salem is fortunate to have been served by such an honorable and brave officer. He was a blessing to the many whose lives he touched. He will be sorely missed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (COMMEMORATING THE 85TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE FOUNDING OF THE AMERICAN HELLENIC EDUCATIONAL PROGRESSIVE ASSOCIATION -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   The American Hellenic Educational Progressive Association, AHEPA, is the largest and oldest American-based, Greek-heritage, grass-roots membership organization. It was created on July 26, 1922, in response to the alarming number of local and national groups whose missions were based on racism. 
   The founders of AHEPA were Greek immigrants who strove to find ways to adapt to their new country and honor their heritage and cultural ideals. Their mission is to promote Hellenism, education, philanthropy, civic responsibility and family and individual excellence. These efforts are made through community service and volunteerism. It is an organization with over 1.3 million participants, making it the largest association for American citizens of Greek ancestry. 
   AHEPA's commitment to education is one of its strongest components. Over $4 million is endowed at the local, district and national levels toward the use of scholarships, and a half million dollars is awarded annually to thousands of students. By providing these scholarships, it affords students the opportunities to educate and be educated on the rich, cultural history of relations between Greece and the United States. 
   Other AHEPA achievements include securing funding for the ``Tribute to Olympism'' sculpture in Atlanta, Georgia, the creation of the George C. Marshall statue at the United States Embassy located in Athens, Greece, and the Federal grant of $500 million providing affordable housing to senior citizens. A few of AHEPA's philanthropic successes include the restoration of the Statue of Liberty at Ellis Island, and they continue to send care packages to our troops through the USO. 
   In their 85th year, the American Hellenic Education Progressive Association continues to promote its ideals of ancient Greece through community service and volunteerism. The association has grown tremendously over the years, and it is to be congratulated for its charitable contributions to society both in the U.S. and throughout the world. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CONGRATULATING TEMPLE EMANUEL ON 75TH ANNIVERSARY -- (House of Representatives - September 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 75th anniversary of Temple Emanuel in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Temple Emanuel is a Jewish reform congregation in Winston-Salem known for consistently reaching out beyond the Jewish community to embrace people from all walks of life. 
   Temple Emanuel is identified in the area as a community with a long history of actively engaging the issues that confront the people of Winston-Salem. Its example clearly illustrates how important the tradition of American religious communities' involvement in civic and community life is in an age of what often seems like increasing individual disengagement. I commend the members of Temple Emanuel for their faithful example of outreach and investment in others. 
   This ethic is embodied in the leadership of Rabbi Mark Strauss-Cohn. His commitment to service and religious dialogue recently earned him the Everyone Can Help Out Award from the Winston-Salem Foundation for his efforts to bridge religious differences by teaching community classes on Judaism. Rabbi Strauss-Cohn has also led  by example by involving Temple Emanuel in housing projects with Habitat for Humanity and other activities. 
   Temple Emanuel was founded as a reform congregation in the 1930s. When it was incorporated, it boasted 63 family memberships. Today the congregation has grown to more than 250 families. I look forward to seeing this fine Jewish congregation continue to grow and make a positive impact on its community. 
   I send my best wishes on this significant anniversary, and wish everyone at Temple Emanuel many more years of celebrating and practicing their Jewish faith and heritage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING FATHER ROBERT BOND ON HIS 75TH BIRTHDAY -- (House of Representatives - September 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of the 75th birthday of my friend and family's former priest, Father Robert Bond. Father Bob, as his parishioners call him, is a retired priest of the Glenmary Home Missioners with a legacy of loving compassion not only for his church but for the unchurched and the less fortunate. 
   Father Bond currently lives in Micaville, North Carolina, but he previously served in many places including Boone, North Carolina, where he served the flock at St. Elizabeth's Catholic Church for 4 years. During his time at St. Elizabeth's, Father Bond typified the church's call to reach out to those in need and share the love of Christ. He was truly ahead of his time in his faithful efforts to bring the power of God's love to those who might never darken the door of a church. 
   Perhaps the most significant contribution he made to the community of Boone was his vision for Camp Dogwood in Valle Crucis, North Carolina. Camp Dogwood was a ministry that Father Bond ran for disadvantaged youth. On the power of his vision and the work of many volunteers, Camp Dogwood brightened the days and brought hope to the lives of many underprivileged children in North Carolina. He practiced the ``No Child Left Behind'' concept long before it was a national slogan. 
   Father Bond's 75th birthday provides a reason to celebrate a life marked by compassion and Christian witness. I wish him many more years of faithful service. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PASSENGER RAIL INVESTMENT AND IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I want to congratulate people on both sides of the aisle who have worked out a way to have Amtrak work. My family and I travel on Amtrak every chance we get, and I believe that we need an efficient, strong, train system in the United States. 
   I want to especially commend Ranking Member Mica and subcommittee Ranking Member Shuster for their work in pushing for private-sector initiatives. 
   As a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, it's also been my pleasure to work with Ranking Member Davis on a variety of issues. I appreciate his passion for this issue, but I have to say that this amendment is eerily similar to a bill that came before that committee, H.R. 401, the National Capital Transportation Amendments Act, which summed up the largest earmark in history and would direct $1.5 billion in new Federal spending towards the Washington Metropolitan Transit Authority, or WMATA. 
   When that bill came before the committee, I raised a number of concerns, including the fact that it was not referred to or considered by the Transportation Committee. When I raised these concerns, I was concerned that the OGR committee had appropriate jurisdiction to consider the issue, which begs the question why it is now appropriate to consider this amendment on a Transportation Committee bill. The fact that it's here now, it seems, proves to me, that H.R. 401 should not have been in Oversight but in Transportation. 
   However, there are a variety of other concerns I have with this proposition. It's true that WMATA has been plagued by reports of mismanagement that compromise the fiscal integrity of the system. Management is beholding to employee unions that have run amok with overtime pay and retirement benefits, warping the system's fiscal priorities. Providing another Federal line item for WMATA is the last thing we needed to spur reform of this mismanaged system. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (AMERICAN-PRODUCED ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss the importance of using American-produced energy. 
   A new survey of 1,000 Americans nationwide conducted by American Solutions reveals that 81 percent of Americans support using American-produced energy, including the oil and coal already here, to combat the rising cost of energy and reduce dependence on foreign energy sources. 
   It also shows that 69 percent of Americans support using domestic energy sources, including the oil located off our coast and in Alaska. With gasoline prices averaging $4 a gallon nationwide, now is the time to increase American-produced energy. 
   Clear majorities of Americans of every political and ideological stripe advocate that the U.S. tap into its voluminous energy resources. 
   Despite the commonsense logic of increasing production of American-produced energy and the strong support of the American people for tapping into those resources, 86 percent of House Democrats have historically voted against increasing the production of American-made oil and gas. 
   It is time for our friends across the aisle to join with us, the 90 percent of House Republicans who have always voted to increase energy, to join with us to do this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (``DRAIN THE SWAMP'' MENTALITY IS DISAPPEARING -- (House of Representatives - June 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, almost 6 months into the new Congress with a new majority, the ``drain the swamp'' mentality is disappearing as quickly as the Democrats' approval ratings in Congress. 
   A new Gallup Poll has the latest congressional approval rating at 14 percent, which is the lowest it's been since the Democrats took charge and the lowest of all time. This makes sense when you consider that the Democrat leadership continues to backpedal at every opportunity on the promises they made to the American people, whether it's a failure to enact openness and transparency to increase accountability for earmark reform, their failure to enact their 100-hour agenda, or the increased infighting that's being seen on the other side as it tries to cope with how to spin another broken promise to their constituents. 
   Enough is enough, and it's time to get down to the important business the American people elected us to do.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CONSTITUTIONAL CAUCUS ON THE BILL OF RIGHTS -- (House of Representatives - January 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, Congressman Garrett. I appreciate the leadership that you give to the Constitution Caucus, along with our colleague, Mr. Bishop. I thank you for letting me participate. 
   I think about the Constitution every day and I think about it many, many times during the day. I think that what we are doing through the Constitution Caucus is an extremely important thing, that we come here and talk about it and bring attention to it to the American people, because I think that because we live in basically a peaceful time, I know we are at war with Islamic terrorists and we have to be dealing with that every day, but basically we go about our work on a day-to-day basis, we go to school, go to work, doing the day-to-day things that we do in this country without thinking too much about what is happening worldwide. But we need to be aware of the fact that it is because we have such a wonderful document as the Constitution that we are able to do that. We are a Nation of laws, and our laws are rooted in the Constitution itself. 
   I want to say again that I don't really need much of a reminder of that, but during the Christmas recess that we had I had the opportunity to take my 11-year-old grandson and 8 1/2 -year-old granddaughter and daughter to Philadelphia for 3 days. My grandson is studying United States history, and I thought what a great opportunity for him to be able to go to Philadelphia and see where the Declaration of Independence was written and signed, where the Constitution was signed, and reflect a little bit on those documents and on this country and particularly the beginning of the country. 
   I want to commend the trip to anybody in the United States to Philadelphia. There is a new Constitution Center there that I had not seen before. They have marvelous displays, marvelous examples of the Constitution and what it means to us on a day-to-day basis in this country. The amendments to the Constitution are spelled out, and the rulings of the Supreme Court relative to many different issues are there. So it is a great opportunity to go. 
   But it reminds us again, I think, of the really radical notion that this country was in the 1700s and still is in many ways. Our Constitution is really a short and very, very elegant document. I know tonight that we have been talking somewhat about the Bill of Rights and what that meant to the Constitution and was the Bill of Rights needed. I know that even when the Constitution was being debated in the 1700s that there was a great deal of debate about it. But I think that one of the tasks that we should always focus on, and we do most of the time, is focus on particularly the ninth and 10th amendments, those two amendments in the Bill of Rights. 
   I also know that coming from the State of North Carolina, that it is probably unlikely that the State of North Carolina would have ever ratified the Constitution had it not been for the Bill of Rights, and I think there were other delegates to the Constitutional Convention who felt the same way. 
   But those of us again who have such a particular fondness for our Constitution and for highlighting it and continually bringing it to the attention of the American people, that most of the time we want to highlight the ninth and 10th amendments. 
   Again, taking my grandchildren to Philadelphia and talking with people there and talking with them about it, you try to get people to understand the radical notion that we, the first three words of the Constitution, ``We the People,'' how radical that idea was then, how radical in many ways it is now when you look at what is happening all over the world in terms of violence and upheaval in other governments, and to realize how little of that we have had in this country because we are so grounded in the words, ``We the People.'' 
   I want to say a little about the ninth and 10th amendments and then make some comments about my concern particularly about the 10th amendment and what has happened over the last 200 or so years in this country. 
   The ninth amendment, of course, is the enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people. Again, the emphasis always is on the rights that belong to the people, those inalienable rights that are spelled out. And then of course the 10th amendment, the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution nor prohibited by it to the States are reserved to the States respectively or to the people. Always the emphasis comes back to the people and to the powers that are given to the States. 
   One of the things that troubles me the most and that I highlight whenever I talk to school groups or even other people about the Constitution and about our work here is that we have gotten too far away from the 10th amendment in our exercise of power here at the Federal level. We have taken onto ourselves at the Federal level many, many more powers than I think the Founders anticipated that we would take on. We have no business, for example, being involved in education. There is nowhere in the Constitution the mention of education, and that is not a responsibility of the Federal Government. 
   We have taken on the issue of health care and so many more things that I think we should not be involved in. If we would contain our activities and responsibilities to those things that the Founders said we should be dealing with, I think we might be able to find governing a lot more manageable here at the Federal level. I think we have lost much of the sense of accountability for Federal spending because we are not able to put the time into it that we need in terms of oversight because we are so involved in things that we have no business being involved in. 
   We must be very grateful for the ninth and 10th amendments, I think, because they are bulwarks against unchecked expansion, many people would say, and are really the ideological foundation of the other eight amendments. But again, we lose site of that because we go out there and get involved in all kinds of good ideas and good intentions, but they are simply violating what the Constitution says we should be about. And of course we take that oath to uphold the Constitution, but we tweak things in an effort to make better things happen. 
   But again, I want us to constantly be reminding the American public of what they should be demanding from us. 
   They should be demanding of the Federal Government that we not get involved in those things that are left to the States and left to the people because that takes us away from looking after particularly the defense of this Nation which again allows us to do those things on a day-to-day basis that we do without very much thinking about it. 
   I hope that as we bring this to the attention of the public, that they will be more demanding of us in terms of these issues. There are very hearty souls out there in the country who do that on a regular basis. I know that they do it to me on a regular basis, and I am sure they do it to some of my colleagues. But I think what we need is those frequent revolutions that Jefferson talked about, that that would be good for our country. 
   I think we saw that happen last year a little bit when the Senate was debating what they called a comprehensive immigration bill. The people of this country clearly did not want that. They spoke and they spoke with a loud voice. What I hope we will see at times when the Congress is dealing with issues that are not covered in the Constitution, that people will more often rise up and say, We don't want you to do those things. Pay attention to what  we are saying. Those are our responsibilities or they are the responsibilities of the States. 
   So I want to thank you again for having this Special Order tonight and giving us the opportunity to bring to the attention of the public the issues that we are concerned about relative to the Constitution and say that I will turn it back to my colleague from Utah who is the cochair for this Special Order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CONSTITUTIONAL CAUCUS ON THE BILL OF RIGHTS -- (House of Representatives - January 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank the gentleman from New Jersey. 
   The comments Mr. Bishop made a little bit ago reminded me, when we were talking about the second amendment, that if you look again at the Bill of Rights, and you realize that every one of those issues, almost, was in reaction to what had happened during the war for independence, and just prior to the war for independence, with the actions on the part of England toward the United States. And I think that it is very important that we remember, again, the context in which those amendments were written, because the abuses of a national or Federal Government were very, very clear in the minds of the people of this country at the time that they worked on the Declaration of Independence, and they outlined their grievances there. And then, as they looked at the amendments to the Constitution, they did not want soldiers billeted in their homes. They did want the right to assembly. They did want the right to freedom of speech. All of those things needed to be spelled out because of the abuses of power of the Federal Government. 
   Now, we have not seen that very much in our 200-plus-year history since the Constitution was adopted. But it's very important that we put it into the historical context that it was in at the time, and understand, again, that under the rule of the British Government, they didn't have those rights and those rights could be very easily abused. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to add that to the comments that I had made earlier. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE OF THE NATION OF TURKEY -- (House of Representatives - January 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, as the global war on terror continues, it is more important than ever that our Nation secures strategic partners in fighting the scourge of radical Islamic terrorism. The nation of Turkey is just such an ally. It has proven to be a committed ally in the fight for freedom and democracy. Turkey has worked side by side with the United States to make strides in our struggle against the forces of terror. 
   Turkey is also a nation that is in the midst of a tremendous political and economic transformation. Its economy has seen almost unprecedented economic growth in recent years, and is a shining example of the power of the market to spur investment, raise living standards and promote stability. 
   During Turkish President Abdullah Gul's visit to Washington this month, I had the privilege to meet with him and hear his speech to the American Turkish Council about the economic and democratic promise his nation holds. He told the story of Turkey's remarkable growth and reforms over the past few years. Turkey's successes are a story of the power of freedom, democracy and economic growth. 
   Turkey is an important ally that will play a strategic role in the future peace and prosperity of a volatile region. It is more important than ever that we hear the voices of Turkish leaders and understand their visions for Turkey's future. 
   Speech Delivered by H.E. Abdullah Gu el, President of the Republic of Turkey, on January 9, 2008 
   Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to address such a distinguished audience. 
   At the outset, I would like to thank American-Turkish Council for providing me with such an opportunity. 
   I would also like to thank the Council and its members for their invaluable contributions for advancing the economic and commercial ties between Turkey and the United States. I expect ATC to continue its efforts in this regard. 
   Turkey and the United States have been enjoying a robust partnership of a strategic nature. This solidarity is important not only for our two nations. It is also important for preserving peace, security and stability in a wide geography. 
   Yesterday, in the White House, President Bush and I have confirmed our commitment to consolidate this valuable relationship. 
   Ladies and gentlemen, since the end of the Cold War, Turkish-American relations have been undergoing a transformation in line with changing global dynamics. Within this context, it is crucial that our trade and economic relations should be elevated to the level of our political and military ties. 
   Although our trade volume increased from $6.3 billion to $11 billion in 2006, these figures are still far from reflecting the potential of our two countries. Already numerous business relations exist between our two nations. But there is a vast and still growing opportunity for so many more. 
   As members of the business and investment community, your contributions to this goal will be invaluable. 
   Today, I will briefly dwell on Turkey's European Union bid, recent economic transformation, the near-term outlook for the Turkish economy and Turkey's main focus areas for the coming years. 
   I would like to start with Turkey's relations with the European Union. Turkey's accession process is critically important for us. 
   We are fully committed to doing all that takes to become an EU member because we believe the steps required are in themselves beneficial to Turkey. 
   Turkey's reform efforts are poised to regain momentum. The Program for Alignment with the European Acquis'' envisages the completion of our harmonization process by 2013. We appreciate the continued strong support of the U.S. Administrations for our E.U. bid. 
   Thanks to economic and political reforms of the past few years, the Turkish economy has experienced its fastest sustained growth in more than 80 years. 
   Despite the recent slowdown, the medium outlook for growth remains strong. Turkey is already the 6th largest economy in Europe and 17th in the world. Our GDP was about half a trillion U.S. Dollars in 2007. 
   The target is to make Turkey the world's 11th largest economy by the year 2023. Foreign direct investments have averaged to a mere one billion US dollars per year during the 1980-2002 period. This figure has jumped to 10 billion in 2005, 20 billion in 2006, and around 20 billion US dollars last year. 
   The United States ranks fourth among the countries that invest in Turkey. In 2006, American companies invested approximately five billion Dollars in Turkey. An increase in this figure in the coming years will allow American companies to make use of Turkey's potential.  
   The boom in FDI inflows is no accident. It reflects the improvement in Turkey's business climate and its growth potential. In World Bank's ``Doing Business Survey'', Turkey has jumped from 91st to 57th place. Turkey's main focus areas over the coming years will be: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (WELCOMING THE REVEREND ZANE FISHEL -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the Reverend Zane Fishel, who is the House of Representatives' guest chaplain today. 
   Reverend Fishel comes to us from Pilot Mountain and Mount Airy, North Carolina, where he shepherds the flock at Temple Baptist Church. Reverend Fishel has faithfully served in the ministry of Temple Baptist since 1997 and he became the full-time youth minister in 1999 after sensing a call to serve God in the local church. 
   With the passing of Temple Baptist's pastor in 2003, Reverend Fishel took up his current role as the church's pastor, where he is devoted to spreading the good news to his congregation and community. 
   Under his leadership, the church body at Temple Baptist Church in  Mount Airy has thrived. He has worked tirelessly to increase the outreach and effectiveness of Temple Baptist in the local community. He has shown a remarkable commitment to educating leaders in the local church so that many within the church can use their God-given gifts. 
   I am very pleased that Reverend Fishel joined us today to open the House of Representatives with such an inspiring prayer. He is a model of service to God, country and community; and he plays a vital spiritual role in Surry County, North Carolina. I am proud to welcome him to the people's house. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (WAR IS UGLY BUT TYRANNY IS UGLIER -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Congressman Wamp for organizing this hour tonight and bringing together a group of folks who have similar feelings to his. I see several of my colleagues have joined us and so I  won't take a lot of time. It is always hard to follow such eloquent speakers as Congressman McCotter and Congressman Wamp. They are both eloquent people, and I am pleased to be with them to add my few comments. 
   As Congressman Wamp has said, I have been reading ``America Alone.'' I want to recommend it. It is written by Mark Steyn, S-T-E-Y-N. It is an excellent book. It is very, very readable, and it is very, very frightening. 
   As Congressman Wamp said, if you don't do anything but pay attention to the demographics, you will have your attention gotten by this book. As he indicated, the United States of America is the only western country that is replacing itself in terms of population. It takes a birth rate of 2.1 to replace the population. What is happening in Canada, which I wasn't aware of, Canada has a birth rate of about 1.3 right now, 1.4. All of the European countries have birth rates of 1.3, 1.4, 1.2. Their populations are going to be cut in half within 35 years. That is something that has never happened in the history of humanity. Their populations are going to be cut in half; and yet the Muslim populations are growing anywhere from 4.7 percent to over 7 percent which means their populations are going to double in a very short period of time. And fairly soon, all of Europe is going to be predominantly Muslim. 
   The title of the book, ``America Alone,'' we are going to be the only country in the free world that is increasing our population of people with western ideals, western religions and western thought. That is something we really have to be thinking about. 
   I have been troubled, and I have spoken about this before, about statements that have been made by Democrats in this body when we talk about the war that we are in. They talk about failure. They talk about it being an impossible situation. Well, I want to try to tie this in to what Congressman McCotter was saying. 
   When I meet with people and they ask me about the, quote, ``war in Iraq,'' I quickly say to them as kindly and as nicely as I can, we are not in a war in Iraq, we are in a war for the freedom of this country and the freedom of the world. If we lose this war, we are losing to radical jihadists who see that we have only two choices. We either convert to becoming Muslims or we should be killed. 
   Now as Congressman Wamp says, we believe in pluralism in this country. We believe in inviting people to come to this country, worship as they please, but not to come here and try to impose their idea, their radical idea of the world on us. So I think it is very important that we all do that. We understand this is a war for freedom.     
   This country is the beacon of freedom in the world, and failure is simply not possible. 
   I am very troubled again by the talk by Senators in the Democratic party who say the war is lost. It cannot be lost again. If it is, then we will go out of existence as a society and as a culture. We can't do that. 
   We know that we're fighting against extremists. There's Sunnis, there's Shias and there's al Qaeda and their intent to fortify their influence in the Middle East and expand beyond it. 
   The Democrats have claimed that a recently declassified National Intelligence Estimate concluded that the war in Iraq has made the war on terror more difficult to win, even though the terrorists see the war in Iraq and the war against terrorists as one and the same. They see it that way. We do not. 
   But the NIE actually concluded that, should Jihadists be perceived to have failed in their efforts to undermine democracy in Iraq, ``fewer fighters will be inspired to carry on the fight.'' 
   So we have to defeat the terrorists. We have to defeat them not only in Iraq but in Afghanistan, in New York City, in New Jersey, anywhere that we find them. Because that is our mission, and that is what we're here for. If we don't want to see freedom and our way of life destroyed, then it's our responsibility to do that. 
   And I will tell you that I am not going to allow the brave men and women who are fighting to maintain our freedom to think that all Members of Congress have no backbone and are weak-kneed and look only to political advantage. I want them to know that there's some Members of Congress who appreciate what they're doing, who understand the sacrifice that they're making and understand the consequences of our winning or losing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE DEMOCRAT ENERGY BILL -- (House of Representatives - September 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank the gentleman from Indiana for leading this. I want to say it is a tough act to follow, MICHELE BACHMANN from Minnesota. She did such a wonderful job of synthesizing this. 
   I want to add just a couple of comments to what she has said. The Democrats took over control of the House and the Senate in 2006 by making a lot of promises. They have broken every one of those promises, and this bill is a culmination of the promises that they have broken. 
   As you all have pointed out, it is a 290-page bill. The Rules Committee is meeting now. We got it 45 minutes ago. They are going to come out, there will be no amendments offered for the bill. It is just a sham. It deserves the ``Emperor's New Clothes Award.'' That is what I want to give it. 
   I think we need to point out, why are we allowing lawsuits? That was a question our colleague just asked. Let's just say it straight, folks. The Democrats in this Congress are being controlled by three groups of people: The trial lawyers, the unions, and the radical environmentalists. Again, this bill is a good indication of how they are being controlled by those three groups. 
   The other thing I would say is that from the first of August of this year  until the end of December, the Democrats will have kept the House in session for 14 working days. That is all. Talk about a slam against the American people. We are letting the American people suffer with high gas prices while the Congress, led by the Democrats, and it needs to be said 3,000 times every day, the Democrats are in charge. 
   I want to say why we are going to have this vote, because I am quoting from today's Congressional Quarterly, so it isn't just coming from us as Republicans. This is an objective piece of journalism. The Democrats need to provide political cover to moderate members of their caucus who could suffer on election day unless they can show constituents they voted for an expansion of drilling. 
   They don't expect this to become law. There is no expectation. But they are giving cover to a few of their members who can say, oh, I went home and voted for this, this sham of a bill. 
   The American people are becoming more and more cynical. There is a 9 percent approval rating for the Congress. I hope that those who are watching know again the Democrats are in charge. If you want a Congress that is not going to leave you cynical, that is not going to walk away from its job, that is not going to leave you paying $4 a gallon for gas, then you need to pay attention to who is representing you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (IRAQ SUPPLEMENTAL--THE WRONG WAY FORWARD -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, the Democrats' Iraq supplemental bill is the wrong policy for America and the wrong signal to send our troops in harm's way. 
   The Democrats' attempt to micromanage the war accomplishes nothing of strategic value. Rather, by meddling in the decisions which are best left to our commanders on the ground, they merely succeeded in telegraphing our plans to the enemy. 
   Setting deadlines and tying the hands of our generals is not a plan for success and not a safe way to conduct this war. Congress, an inherent political body, should not be dictating military strategy. Rather than support a bill that leaves our troops in harm's way for a cause Democrats believe cannot be won, a bill the President has promised to veto, the Democratic leaders should be willing to vote up or down on a clean bill that supports funding the global war on terrorism. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE IMPORTANCE OF LIBRARIES IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of America's local libraries. Libraries have long been the locus of learning, cultural exchange and imagination for young and old alike. 
   As a former librarian, I know that libraries play a crucial role in providing generation after generation with access to great books and world-changing ideas. Libraries serve our communities as a sort of guidepost along an often overwhelming path of information in the Internet age. Librarians still provide the invaluable service of helping us answer the toughest questions and directing us to the most reliable sources for research. 
   For many Americans, libraries are the only place they have ready access to thousands of books on almost any topic. By their very nature, libraries encourage us to branch out and pursue interests that we might not be naturally inclined to pursue. 
   The phenomenon that best describes libraries, contribution to local communities is a patron wandering through the stacks and simply selecting a book because it caught his or her eye. It's this ability to ignite our imaginations and spur us to learn that makes libraries a lynchpin for thousands of communities across the Nation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (OPPOSITION TO DEMOCRATS' PROPOSED ENERGY BILL -- (House of Representatives - January 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today to call attention to the Democrats' proposed energy bill that would only hurt hardworking Americans through raising taxes, forcing the cost of gas and home heating oil to increase, and inflicting massive job losses as a result. 
   In the 109th Congress, I distinctly remember the Democrats continually saying that the Republicans were outsourcing jobs. With increased taxes, many hardworking Americans in the oil industry will lose their jobs to overseas corporations, not only hurting the American worker, but also increasing our Nation's dependence on foreign oil. 
   We have not built a refinery in America since 1976, which further has added to our dependence on foreign oil by giving the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, massive control over us. 
   Madam Speaker, if we want true energy reform, we must begin to build refineries, allow for responsible exploration of energy within our own borders, and invest in energy alternatives. 
   Raising taxes, causing job losses and increasing fuel costs are not the answer. If we fail to act in a responsible manner, we are continuing to allow ourselves to be at the mercy of OPEC and the nations that control it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (WHAT HAS NOT BEEN ACCOMPLISHED IN THIS CONGRESS -- (House of Representatives - December 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I am here tonight to talk about what has not been accomplished in this Congress, and what it looks like we may be facing in an omnibus bill. 
   Last week we were told that we would be here on Friday of this coming week, after we had been told about a month ago that we would be able to be in our districts on Friday. I know that I made many plans to be in the district, speak to school groups that had been asking me to speak, meet with chamber of commerce people to talk about concerns that they had, and to do lots of things in the district. 
   We have been denied many opportunities this year to be in our district to hear from the folks in the district the things that are on their minds and what's really important in the country, because the majority has insisted that we stay in session 5 days a week. But if you look at the bills that have been passed in those days that we've been here, you'd see that they were not things that primarily the Congress needs to be concerning itself with. 
   We do need to be concerning ourselves with the appropriations bills, funding the war on terror, taking care of tax relief for middle-income Americans, many, many things that we should be doing. But, instead, we are literally wasting our time on insignificant issues and not dealing with those things we should be dealing with. 
   It was announced last week that we would be dealing with an omnibus appropriations bill. Why an omnibus appropriations bill? Because the majority has been unable to pass 10 of the vital appropriations bills that our government relies for its funding on. 
   We have passed the Defense bill and the President has signed it. We've passed the Labor-HHS bill. The President vetoed it and the veto was upheld. So we are coming to the end of a continuing resolution that was passed that expires on Friday, and we're facing the prospect of lumping 11 appropriations bills together and passing them in one fell swoop. Well, we know that is just a recipe for disaster. 
   Last week we were given the Energy bill, 15 hours before we voted on it, a 1,000-plus page bill, and it had all kinds of problems with it. Buying Lexus hybrids for the Beverly Hills police,  many, many things in there that the American people would not approve of. And I fear that in the omnibus bill we're going to see a lot of those kinds of things. 
   Now, we don't know yet what's going to be in the omnibus bill, but in addition to a tremendous number of earmarks, we are probably going to see sanctions against Cuba weakened. We are probably going to see the Mexico City policy overturned. The House and Senate versions of the State Department appropriations bill permits grants and subsidies for organizations that perform or actively promote abortion as a method of family planning, overturning the Bush administration's Mexico City policy. We don't need to be doing that. The American people do not want us to take their hard-earned money to fund abortions. 
   It is probably going to provide federally funded benefits for domestic partners. Before being stripped from the House-passed Financial Services general government appropriations bill, a provision would have allowed unmarried cohabiting couples in the District of Columbia to qualify for Federal benefits on the same basis as legally married couples. That provision could be brought back to life in the majority's omnibus legislation. 
   Ending an IRS private debt collection program, the majority spending bill could limit funding to implement the Internal Revenue Service's use of private collection firms to collect unpaid taxes. The private debt collection initiative is expected to collect $1.3 billion in taxes owed to the government that would otherwise go uncollected. 
   Undermining regulatory reform, a provision in the House-passed Financial Services general government appropriations bill, again, H.R. 2829, would kill efforts to increase the quality, accountability, and transparency of the Federal Government's regulatory review process. It would result in a fox guarding the hen house approach to approving Federal rules and regulations. 
   We don't need an omnibus bill. We need to vote on these bills one at a time, Madam Speaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY -- (House of Representatives - December 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you so much, Congressman Garrett. I appreciate your putting together this Special Order tonight and focusing on spending and on where we are here, as you said, in the second week of December in the greatest country in the world. 
   I was listening for a few minutes to our colleagues who preceded us, who called themselves the Blue Dog Democrats, and I was really fascinated to hear them talk about how fiscally responsible they have been, and I know that you're going to talk a little bit later about the total tax increases that they have proposed, the total spending that they have proposed. And I am fascinated that our colleagues can stand  here and talk about being fiscally responsible, I think, and assume that nobody is adding up what it is they are doing. And they show their charts about the debt and how much each person is responsible for that debt, and I am intrigued that if you look at the record, you would see that most of the Blue Dogs vote every time for these fiscally irresponsible bills that are being brought up. So I want to say to the American people, if they believe that these folks have been fiscally responsible, then I have got some swampland in Mexico that I'd like to sell them. 
   I felt like, in listening to them, that I was like Alice in Wonderland, where the language means the opposite of what it is, or 1984, particularly 1984, where white is black and black is white. That is what it feels like when you're listening to them talk about being fiscally responsible. It's unbelievable. 
   One thing I do agree with them, it is about priorities, and it's obvious that their priorities and our priorities and the priorities of the American people are two different things. For one thing, our colleague used the example that we could be building 12,000 new elementary schools. Well, the Federal Government has absolutely no business building elementary schools. There is absolutely nothing in the Constitution which gives us any right to be involved in education, and particularly in building buildings at the local level. 
   I am astonished at some of the things that they say, again, and assume that nobody is going to question them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY -- (House of Representatives - December 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Well, I hope you will repeat that 22 more times tonight, and we need to be repeating that every single day. It's one of the issues I talk about over and over again, what are our priorities, what is the role of the Federal Government. As you say, we could be seen as a 51st State and be trying to deal with every single issue, but the Constitution is really clear about what our role is, I think. 
   As you point out, here we are in the middle of December, and what has this Congress accomplished? So much was promised by the majority last year when they were running for office and condemning Republicans for being profligate spenders and being irresponsible about the way we spent money. I will tell you that we can't hold a candle to what it is they want to do.     
   I think it was bad enough that Republicans before I got here ballooned the budget beyond where it should have been. And I have to say that I understand why the American people got upset with us last year, why we lost our majority. They felt that we were profligate spenders, as I said. But the Democrats promised something different. We are standing on our principles now, and they are stunned by that. We are earning our way back into the majority by living up to the image and the reputation that Republicans have had over the years of being careful with the way money is spent. 
   And, of course, today I heard other Democrats talking about the fact that this was going to be a cut in the budget. Well, only in Washington is a smaller increase than what they want considered a cut or level funding considered a cut. The increase in what the President asked for, and again I know you are going to go into much greater detail about this, a 3.1 percent increase in spending overall was requested by the President; and yet, the majority party is saying that the fault is with the White House and it refuses to negotiate, that the President won't negotiate with them. They say we are engaged in political posturing. If that isn't the pot calling the kettle black, I certainly have never seen that. They are totally surprised by the fact that the President and we are standing on our principles. 
   They think they can get by with simply increasing spending. They asked for $22 billion plus a lot of money in emergency spending; so then they come back and say, well, we will just split the difference. It will only be $11 billion and you should compromise with us. And the fact that we don't want to increase spending that much more over the 3.1 percent requested by the President stuns them. So the way they get around it is, here we are again the middle of December, and they have not passed the appropriations bills that we should have passed. And I want to talk some about what they promised they would do and what they have done. And we have compiled a list of promises. 
   On November 8 of last year, Speaker-elect Pelosi said: Democrats are prepared to govern and ready to lead. 
   Here we are, only one appropriations bill that has passed, and that is the Defense bill. Thank goodness that has happened. 
   Another Democratic promise: open, honest, and ethical Congress. Speaker-elect Pelosi: we will make this the most honest, ethical, and open Congress in history. 
   And what do we get? We get bills brought on the floor at the last minute, thousand-page bills. We get no time to read them, and we are asked to vote on them. 
   We are also told by the Blue Dogs and by others that they believe in something called PAYGO. Now, PAYGO, they would have you believe, is a way for us to get back fiscal responsibility. Well, I want to say that if you look up PAYGO in the dictionary, it means new taxes. That is what PAYGO means to them, new taxes. It doesn't mean cutting spending. And it only applies to a very small part of our budget, but they want to try to fool the American people into thinking that it means something different than what it means. 
   They criticize the Senate for having passed an AMT bill last week, which is a clean bill. It simply delays the increase in taxes that would go to about 23 million Americans, something they have never paid. And to the House, the fiscally responsible way to do this is to add new taxes to other Americans to, quote, pay for, that is, offset, taxes that have never been paid by another group of Americans. 
   That is some of the most twisted logic that I have ever heard in my entire life. I know that these people never could have taken logic in high school or in college. 
   They also promised no more borrowing from Social Security. But what that means is that the money that is currently being spent from the Social Security fund will not be spent from the Social Security fund. But that is not what they are doing. They are spending that and a whole lot more. And Rob Andrews last year, or this year, promised that we would not borrow any more money from the Social Security fund. Every one of their promises has been broken, and they are taking us down a very fiscally irresponsible budget. 
   The energy bill that was passed last week is a no-energy bill. It included nothing to increase domestic energy production. As Christmas approaches, 5,000 troops are going to return from Iraq; but they are holding hostage the bipartisan legislation to fund key benefits for them and their families. It has  been 6 months since the House overwhelmingly passed the veterans and troops funding bill and 3 months since the Senate did the same, but they have put that bipartisan bill into this omnibus bill that we are going to be dealing with, which will have billions in wasteful, unrelated pork. 
   We are seeing a tremendous problem here with only one of the 12 appropriations bills passed, a year wasted while they have brought before us unnecessary bills to vote on and while they have voted 41 times on measures to withdraw from Iraq, and they have let the important work of this Congress go by the by. 
   I hope again that the American people are paying close attention and reading between the lines on the things that they are saying, and I am going to yield back to my colleague from New Jersey (Mr. Garrett). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING ALBERT CAREY CASWELL OF THE CAPITOL GUIDE SERVICE -- (House of Representatives - December 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor one of the unsung heroes of the United States Capitol. Here in the Capitol Building, we have a group of fine individuals who serve the public by giving tours of the Capitol and educating the public about the history of this great institution. 
   But during the few years I have had the honor to serve in Congress, I have noticed one member of the Capitol Guide Service who has consistently gone above and beyond the call of duty. Albert Carey Caswell has served as a Capitol guide for more than 20 years, and his tenure has been marked with an ethic of civic outreach. He routinely gives tours to disabled veterans from Walter Reed Medical Center and to children with life-threatening diseases through Make-a-Wish Foundation. Mr. Caswell does all of this on a volunteer basis on his own time. He insists that the tours he give to these children and brave veterans be coordinated and given on his watch. 
   Mr. Caswell is an accomplished poet and an extremely knowledgeable tour guide, but more importantly he is a great American. He embodies the spirit of a true patriot, someone who grasps the importance of a cause greater than himself and pursues it with energy and commitment. He is the model of a civically minded citizen who is selflessly committed to the greater good. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (TRIBUTE TO JAMES MADISON -- (House of Representatives - March 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the longevity and the genius of our Nation's Constitution and to one of the principal framers of this incredible document, James Madison. 
   As a member of the Constitutional Caucus, I want to do my part in sharing with people each week here items about the Constitution that we think, in the caucus, are very important. 
   Madison understood the almost insurmountable task that drafting a Constitution presented to the Constitutional Convention. After the Constitution was completed, Madison looked back at the ideals that were contained in it and marveled that that body as diverse as the Constitutional Convention could have produced a document that did so much to preserve liberty and provide for a form of government that would stand the test of time. 
   He wrote in Federalist Paper No. 37 that ``among the difficulties encountered by the Convention, a very important one must have lain, in combining the requisite stability and energy in government with the inviolable attention due to liberty and to the republican form. Without substantially this part of their undertaking they would have very imperfectly fulfilled the object of their appointment or the expectation of the public.'' 
   This founding member of our government knew that there would be a tension between granting maximum liberty to the people and ensuring that the government was given the capacity to execute its critical duties. The greatness of the preamble to the Constitution rests in part in how eloquently and succinctly it enumerates these duties to ``establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for  the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty.'' 
   Madison wrote: ``The genius of republican liberty seems to demand, on one side, not only that all powers should be derived from the people, but that those entrusted with it should be kept in dependence by the people by a short duration of their appointments; and that even during this short period the trust should be placed not in a few but in a number of hands. Stability, on the contrary, requires that the hands in which the power is lodged shall continue for a length of time the same. A frequent change of men will result from a frequent return of electors, and the frequent change of measures from a frequent change of men. Whilst energy in government requires not only a certain duration of power, but the execution of it by a single hand.'' 
   He knew what we take for granted today, one, that liberty is an essential ingredient for stability and prosperity; and, two, that if government does not see its foremost task is to preserve liberty for the people it serves, then it will soon fail. 
   In discussing the preamble we should pause to take note of the fact that our Constitution was the result, not of monarchial fiat or one man's scheme to craft a new government, but of a Constitutional Convention, a body overflowing with competing philosophies and conflicting viewpoints. But these founders found common ground in our Constitution. Madison was in awe of this reality. ``The real wonder,'' he wrote, ``is that so many difficulties should have been surmounted and surmounted with a unanimity almost as unprecedented as it must have been unexpected. It is impossible for any man of candor to reflect on this circumstance without partaking of the astonishment. It is impossible for the man of pious reflection not to perceive in it a finger of that almighty hand which had been so frequently and signally extended to our relief in the critical stages of the revolution.'' 
   Madison notes that the Convention's end product, our Nation's Constitution, would not have been possible under the normal conditions that prevail in most political bodies. It makes me wonder if such an achievement could ever be possible in today's fractious climate. But Madison chalks this achievement up to two dynamics. He writes: ``The first is that the Convention must have enjoyed in a very singular degree an exemption from the pestilential influence of party animosities, the diseases most incident to deliberative bodies and most apt to contaminate their proceedings. The second conclusion is that all the deputations composing the conventions were either satisfactorily accommodated by the final act or were induced to accede to it by deep conviction of the necessity of sacrificing private opinions and partial interest to the public good and by despair of seeing this necessity diminished by delays or by new experiments.'' 
   His observations on the crafting of this great document which establishes our framework for government and secures the blessings of liberties to ourselves and our posterity should serve to remind us of how careful we must be to adhere to the boundaries it creates for the Federal Government. His insight into the process behind the framing of our Constitution might also remind the Members of this body of our duty to serve the people and to maintain, as Madison said, ``a deep conviction of the necessity of sacrificing private opinions and partial interests to the public good.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORT THE REPUBLICAN ENERGY BILL -- (House of Representatives - September 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, the speaker just before me just admitted that the jobs that have been lost primarily have been lost while the Democrats have been in control of this Congress. They continue their assault on the American family with their energy bill, which doesn't help American families who are hurting at the pump. 
   This new bill results in an $85 tax hike on consumers. Our constituents have been looking to us for relief. That bill does not bring the relief they need. 
   Skyrocketing gas prices have taken a dramatic toll on almost every area of our lives. Families have had to adjust by tightening budgets. Schools adjust by cutting field trips and textbook purchases. Small businesses are watching their profits shrink, while making tough decisions about expanding their company or being able to make their payroll. This is has all occurred under the Democrats' watch in the last 20 months. 
   The House Republican plan increases production of American-made energy in an environmentally safe way. It promotes new, clean and reliable sources of energy, while cutting red tape and increasing the supply of American-made fuel and energy. 
   The Republican plan encourages greater energy efficiency by offering conservation tax incentives to Americans who make their home, car, and business more energy efficient. 
   The House Republican plan helps American families combat the increase cost of energy. I invite my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to join us in bringing real solutions to the energy crisis. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (NO CHILD LEFT INSIDE ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank my colleague from California for yielding me time. 
   He made a couple of comments earlier, I won't try to repeat everything that he said, but he asked a question; he doesn't know why we're here dealing with this bill that normally would be under suspension and certainly wouldn't be a rule bill, but I agree that we know why we're here: it's to fill time because the majority has so little of consequence for us to deal with when we should be dealing with consequential things such as the American Energy Act. 
   However, I want to also point out the fact that this bill is not going to solve all of the problems of the world. It's not going to create the alternative energies that we need. I read the Constitution. I read it fairly frequently. Yesterday we celebrated Constitution Day. And I have searched in vain for the word ``education'' there. Nowhere did our Founding Fathers just think that the Congress of the United States should be involved in education. That was an issue that they thought best left to the States, and I think it is best left to the States and is not something that we should be dealing with here in the Congress. 
   Almost every day someone from the majority party comes to the floor and decries the deficit that we're facing. Well, one of the reasons that we're facing a terrible deficit is because the majority party is involved in everything and many things it should not be involved in, especially in education. That is something we should leave to the States. If we did that and left the hardworking people's money at the State level, we would be able to do a lot more than we're currently doing. 
   But I want to point out the fact that we should be dealing with the American Energy Act. We had a chance this week to do that, and we refused. Bipartisan passage of the American Energy Act would demonstrate to the world that America will no longer keep its rich energy resources under lock and key as the Democrats want to do. Not only will it help bring down the price of gasoline now, but it will make needed investments in the alternative fuels that will power our lives and our economy in the future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (OPPOSE CONTINUING RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today in objection to the so-called continuing resolution the Democrat leadership is going to bring up tomorrow. This is by no means a typical continuing resolution. A continuing resolution basically requires only a couple of lines saying that the current appropriations are continuing for a set period of time.  
   This CR has not been scrutinized through the committee process before being brought to the House floor for a vote. This is a $463 omnibus spending bill without any specific guidelines or accountability measures. American taxpayers deserve to know how their hard-earned dollars are being spent. 
   Madam Speaker, this is not a continuing resolution. A typical 1- or 2-page bill that continues spending at its previous level. Again, it is an omnibus spending bill well over 100 pages long, full of excessive unregulated spending, just another broken promise by the Democrat leadership that shows their true colors. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (COMMEMORATING THE 400TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE JAMESTOWN SETTLEMENT -- (House of Representatives - May 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, 400 years ago, a group of entrepreneurs from the Virginia Company landed on Jamestown Island with the intent of establishing a colony to find gold and a water route to the Orient. This landing spot became the first permanent English colony in America and would eventually become the capital of Virginia for 92 years. Built on a marshy and unhealthy site, the town suffered badly at the hands of fire and disease. 
   The development of this great Nation clearly did not come about easily. By the end of 1607, after a particularly harsh winter, only 60 of the original 214 settlers remained alive. The colony probably would have failed completely if it had not been for the courage and determination of Captain John Smith, who contrived to get food from the Indians, proving to be crucial for their survival. 
   The suffering of these early settlers continued for many years. However, by 1614, John Rolfe introduced new techniques of curing the tobacco leaf which provided the first opportunity for the settlers to finally grow a crop that would sustain them for many years to come. Tobacco became the money crop for Jamestown and, ultimately, Virginia. In a short time, every farmer in Virginia was raising and exporting tobacco. 
   Soon thereafter, a representative assembly called the House of Burgesses was established in the colony and met once a year. Meeting in the Jamestown  Church, it was the first legislature of elected representatives in America. 
   Every farmer in Virginia was granted 40 acres of land, and with the income from farming tobacco, families began to sustain themselves. This community of small farmers, the great majority, 90 percent of them, not only owned but cultivated or owned land. Today, it is hard to fathom how Jamestown of Virginia survived with the suffering, malnutrition, disease and an appalling death rate. But, here we are 400 years later celebrating the quadricentennial of these brave peoples who included not only the British colonists, but the Native Americans they met upon arrival and the Africans who became indentured servants soon after. 
   Furthermore, this year we have the honor to celebrate the 400th anniversary with people from around the world, including Queen Elizabeth II of England. 
   I wholeheartedly encourage all Americans to visit this historic site. It offers an opportunity to learn how the first settlers survived and ultimately thrived as a result of their tenacity and steadfast desire to make this a place of which we can all be proud. 
   Seeing how many of the democratic ideals which originated in Jamestown are still being preserved 400 years later, it is only natural for us to commemorate and honor the founding of Jamestown and how it led to the establishment of our great country. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOME RULE AMENDMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - May 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   I rise today in support of H.R. 2080 which will implement the District of Columbia Public Education Reform Amendment Act of 2007. The legislation was passed by a 9-2 vote by the city council on April 19 and was signed by Mayor Fenty on April 23. Because the local bill includes amendments to the Home Rule Act, Congress must pass this bill for it to be effective. I make a special note that this legislation relies solely on local funds. 
   Before approving the bill, the city council held over 70 hours of hearings. I commend Mayor Fenty for proposing this bold change in governance and the city council for its careful deliberation and amendments to the original proposal. 
   Key elements of the local bill include streamlined educational responsibility, spending controls and consolidation of functions. The legislation is also intended to resolve issues that have festered between the D.C. public school system and charter schools. 
   Every city and county is entitled to govern its own school system as it sees  fit, and the District of Columbia ought not to be an exception. 
   The challenges that have faced the city's public schools are well-known and extensively documented. Congress needs to pass this legislation promptly to ensure these reforms can be in place before school begins again next August. Changes in educational procurement are particularly important. Recent reports of failing boilers and high levels of lead in school water fountains lend a sense of urgency to this bill. 
   I wish the mayor and the city council well as they assume enhanced responsibility for public education. They have asked through this legislation to be held to a much higher level of accountability, and I commend them for stepping up to the plate on this core function of local government. 
   This does not obviate the continuing need to provide an alternative to underperforming neighborhood schools. That is why the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program is so vital. Today, the program gives approximately 1,800 low-income students access to schools of their choice. Reauthorization of this excellent program, which will be required by 2008, is necessary as part of our vision to expand and improve opportunities for D.C. students. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (COMMENDING PUBLIC SERVANTS FOR THEIR DEDICATION AND CONTINUED SERVICE TO THE NATION -- (House of Representatives - May 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   I am extremely proud to rise today in support of H. Res. 307, honoring the millions of dedicated public servants that serve our Nation. Our country simply could not function without its innovative, professional, highly trained public service employees. At all levels of government you will find hardworking staff making our country prosper and thrive through their contributions. The expertise and work ethic offered by these individuals sets an honorable example for future generations of employees. From emergency responders to librarians, public servants span the spectrum of jobs that keep our country efficient and safe. 
   Beyond the tremendous work of civilian employees and uniformed service personnel, the members of our National Guard and Reserves are crucial to the welfare of all U.S. citizens. They provide vital strategic support for our Nation's military both at home and abroad. Their tremendous accomplishments with assisting States and countries overseas with natural disasters is to be praised. 
   Once again, I commend these employees for performing challenging and oftentimes thankless jobs with honor and dedication. I appreciate them for moving our country forward and maintaining our safety and security. For these reasons I am thrilled to express my support for a week of honoring these individuals. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF A NATIONAL SUFFRAGISTS DAY -- (House of Representatives - May 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is difficult to imagine a time when our Nation's women did not have the privilege to vote. Thankfully, we have moved past those times to where we currently have the highest number of female Members in the history of the Congress. Although I think it is very difficult for people to realize, in the history of this Congress, we have had only 249 women, and 90 of them are serving now. 
   As we all know, the struggle for women to achieve this came at great sacrifice. The fight lasted over many decades because of dedicated perseverance of many women. These pioneers were revolutionary in their fight for equality. They worked tirelessly knowing there would be a future when women were seen as equal to men with the ability to vote. 
   The historical Seneca Falls Convention, held in 1848, was led by a group of innovative women, including Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Following the convention, they formed the National Woman's Suffrage Association and the American Woman's Suffrage Association which merged together in 1890. Through public speeches, marches, parades, pickets, arrests and even hunger strikes, the members of the associations fought their battle across the country. Their historic efforts came to fruition on August 18, 1920, when the Congress ratified the 19th amendment of the Constitution thereby granting women the right to vote. The goal of the suffragist movement endured over 50 years. 
   Schools around the world teach their students the rich history of the movement, and it is with pleasure that we promote continued awareness through a National Suffragists Day. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF PEACE OFFICERS MEMORIAL DAY -- (House of Representatives - May 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   H. Res. 291 supports the goals and ideals of Peace Officers Memorial Day to honor Federal, State and local law enforcement officers killed in the line of duty, and encourages the citizens of the United States to observe the day with appropriate ceremonies and respect. 
   Police officers have been protecting American citizens since April 1631, when the city of Boston first established its ``night watch'' law enforcement program in the colonies. There is a quote by President George H.W. Bush engraved on the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial located at Judiciary Square here in Washington which summarizes the mission of the 870,000 current sworn law enforcement officers in the United States. It states that it is their daily ``quest to preserve both democracy and decency, and to protect a national treasure that we call the American Dream.'' 
   Law enforcement officers face dangers on the job every single day. On May 17, 1792, New York City's Deputy Sheriff Isaac Smith became the first recorded police officer to be killed in the line of duty. Today, more than 56,000 are assaulted each year, and every 53 hours an officer is killed while serving the American people. September 11, 2001, was the deadliest day for police officers in all of American history when 72 officers were killed while responding to terrorist attacks. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want to recognize the life of Sergeant Howard Plouff from my district, who was killed recently in the line of duty. He was known as an honorable man who selflessly served his family and community for more than 17 years in the Winston-Salem Police Department. He was dedicated to community development and service. His is a legacy of the spirit of service that permeates this great country.     
   He earned the respect of his fellow officers and did not hesitate to go above and beyond the call of duty. In fact, during his time with the Winston-Salem Police Department, he was awarded its highest honor, the Medal of Valor. He left behind a loving wife and two daughters. He was an extremely positive role model and an example of all the officers we are honoring with this resolution. 
   May 15 is Peace Officers Memorial Day, a holiday created in 1961 by Congress to honor fallen law enforcement officers who dedicated their lives to protecting this country and its citizens. The flag is flown at half staff and thousands of people visit the memorial which was authorized by President Ronald Reagan in 1984. Built in 1989, it currently has 17,912 names etched into the wall. Each of these names reminds us of the sacrifices these brave law enforcement officers have given in order to keep American citizens safe. They also stand for those living officers who would, without hesitation, do the same to protect all of us.  
   With gratitude to our law enforcement officers' devotion and dedication to our country, I ask all Members to join me in supporting H. Res. 291. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CARD CHECK BILL -- (House of Representatives - February 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the so-called Employee Free Choice Act which provides employees anything but free choice. Contrary to its title, the bill would strip workers of their right to privacy in union organization elections by removing the option of a secret ballot. 
   This paradoxical bill will kill private voting rights, making workers vote publicly through a mandatory card check where union bosses gather authorization cards supposedly signed by workers expressing their desire for a union to represent them. Such mandatory card checks make workers' personal votes known to their coworkers, their union organizers and their employers, stripping workers of the right to choose freely and anonymously whether to unionize. This leaves workers vulnerable to coercion, pressure, outright intimidation and threats. 
   Supporters of the bill claim it is necessary to preserve workers' rights, when, in reality, this bill is not about workers at all. Rather, it is about Big Labor's last desperate attempt to retain power. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote for workers' rights by voting ``no'' on this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (AMERICAN ENERGY SOLUTIONS FOR LOWER GAS PRICES -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you so much, Mr. Westmoreland. Thank you for leading this Special Order tonight and for the work that you have been doing for the last several weeks on this issue. 
   I think it's important that we say over and over and over again that the Republicans do have a plan to lower gas prices. We are doing everything that we can to create new sources of American-made oil because we are in touch with the American people. We go home every weekend. Most of us worked for a living before we came here; so we know what it's like to meet a payroll. We haven't been in government all our lives. We haven't served in the Congress for 53, 54 years.     
   We are out there every weekend talking to the folks that we represent, and we know how the high prices of gasoline are hurting them. I think the Democrats are in strong denial. They think, again, that they can continue to bash the oil companies and hide their heads in the sand about what is going on. 
   I want to thank you and our colleague from Indiana and our other colleagues that are going to be speaking tonight who are exposing the Democrats for who they are and what they are. Again, as I said earlier, it's important that we let the American people know it's the Democrats who are in control. The President cannot create new gas sources or new oil sources. Only the Congress has the power to do what needs to be done. So we need to set the record straight. 
   It seems like the Democrats want to do everything possible to avoid creating new oil and bringing down the price of gasoline. They purport to represent the little person, the common person, the average person in this country, but it's obvious that that's not who they care about. They care about the radical environmentalists and toeing their line. 
   Now I consider myself an environmentalist. My husband and I are in the nursery and landscaping business. I cherish the earth. I am a big recycler. I am very careful about how I spend things. When you grow up poor, you learn to be careful with money. 
   But we know that our Speaker is the wealthiest person in Congress. Many of the Democrats are among the wealthiest people in the Congress. This really isn't hurting them at all. Again, I think it's very important that we debunk what they are trying to say to the American people about why their ``use it or lose it'' is what needs to be done. Again, they are good at blaming everybody else in the world for the problems that they create or that they can't solve. 
   I want to talk a little bit about their comment that all we have to do is get the oil companies to use the leases that are available to them and put out some facts. We had the Truth Squad. The Truth Squad hasn't been active lately, but we need to bring it back. As our colleague says, You're entitled to your own opinion, but you're not entitled to create facts. 
   So let me say something about why we need to do something more than simply pass legislation that has already been passed. During President Reagan's administration, 160 million acres of onshore land was leased for exploration. Today, only 50 million acres are leased. Only 6 percent of Federal onshore land is available for leasing. ANWR contains 10.4 billion barrels of oil, but is 100 percent closed. 
   I want to say something about ANWR, and I want to say something--I saw these pictures on TV again tonight. When ANWR is portrayed, it is usually portrayed as this meadow with daisies growing in it, animals grazing. That isn't what ANWR is. ANWR is a frozen desert. The temperature gets to 60 degrees below zero there sometimes. Practically nothing grows there. 
   I was all over Alaska in 2005. I saw the oil fields. And, you know what? The oil fields don't look like the oil fields they show you on TV either. We have got to get those guys to get up-to-date pictures. You don't have these big cranes going up and down and back and forth like this. The oil wells don't even look like oil wells. They are little boxes with some gauges on them. If somebody didn't tell you that they were drilling oil there, you couldn't possibly know it. So we are not going to be spoiling our scenery, and we are certainly not going to hurt ANWR. 
   The OCS contains 86 billion barrels of oil, the Outer Continental Shelf, but 97 percent of it is closed. Onshore Federal land contains 31 billion barrels of oil, but only 6 percent of it is open to exploration. Oil shale on Federal land contains 2 trillion barrels of oil, but is 100 percent closed. 
   The Democrats' claims are wrong. They claim that there are 4.8 million barrels and 44.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day that may be extrapolated from unused Federal leased lands. Stephen Allred, Assistant Secretary of the Land and Minerals Management, wrote that anyone who makes these claims has a ``misunderstanding of the very lengthy regulatory process. Lessees must comply with permit upon permit, often 27 total permits, without any drilling, and a lease does not equal oil. A lease is not a permission to drill, a lease is a permission to explore.'' 
   The Democrats assume that every acre of leased land can produce the exact same amount of oil and gas as the very best producing acres. This argument is not based on science, fact, or even common sense. A lease doesn't guarantee the discovery of oil and gas. A lessee may never actually find oil or gas. Between 2002 and 2007, 52 percent of all exploration wells were dry. 
   We have got to set the record straight. We can't let the Democrats get by with talking about things that aren't true and trying to fool the American people. 
   I see my colleague from Georgia has some wonderful maps here. Let me defer to you to talk about ANWR a little bit. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (AMERICAN ENERGY SOLUTIONS FOR LOWER GAS PRICES -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. If I might, before Mr. Conaway speaks, I want to make one more comment. I have been getting a lot of letters in the last couple of weeks from boy scouts who are talking about their concerns with what is going on. I got one this week that was really heart-rending. He said, If the price of gas keeps going up, we are not going to be able to go on vacation, we are not going to be able to go to the grocery store. We are not even going to be able to go to church anymore. 
   I think it's a real shame that we have people out there who are being denied the opportunity even to go to church because they cannot afford the price of gasoline. That is a sad state that we have come to in this country, and it's a sad commentary on the Democrats when they want to allow that to continue, when they have the power to do something about it. 
   I yield back. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPLY AND DEMAND -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, you know, Americans are beginning to pressure the Democrats to face up to the basic law of economics: supply and demand. They understand that, despite all the rhetoric on the part of the Democrats, what we need is more supply to meet the demand for petroleum products. 
   The Democrats refuse to respond in the appropriate manner. What they continue to do is bring up sham bills, avoid the issue, and try to take away people's attention from the real issue. 
   So what they did today was bring up a bill under suspension of the rules, H.R. 6251, which they called use-it-or-lose-it. This has been their mantra for the past few days, trying to say again that the oil companies--and they love to beat up on the oil companies--have all the means at their disposal to meet the supply needs in this country. 
   However, the American people understand that's not true. Even 19 Democrats understood that that's not true, and thankfully, the bill did not pass because it required a two-thirds majority vote, and it didn't get that. 
   What H.R. 6251 would have done was threaten increased American energy production. It would do nothing to lower the price at the pump, and it would breach existing oil and gas contracts. But of course, what we've seen from this Democratically controlled Congress, they don't care much about the law. They don't care much about contracts, the basic part of our law in this country. 
   I want to share with you some editorials that have been written about this harebrain scheme on the part of the Democrats, but it's not just the Republicans who feel this way, and as I've said, 19 Democrats voted against the bill today. I'm very proud of them for standing up to their despotic leadership and voting ``no'' on this bill. 
   But here's some of the editorials that have come out about this legislation. The Charleston, West Virginia, Daily Mail, the hometown paper of Congressman Nick Rahall, one of the main sponsors of the bill: ``Now comes a new wrinkle, another attempt to dodge sensible policy--this one from West Virginia's Representative Nick Rahall. He proposes to give big oil companies an ultimatum: Unless they drill on the 68 million acres of inactive land they now lease from the Federal Government--or give up those leases--they would be barred from getting new leases. 
   ``Oh, for pity's sake. It may not be possible to produce from some reserves at the current price. Huffing and puffing around that American companies shouldn't have access to any new reserves until they have made full use of the reserves they have would unnecessarily delay the identification of new domestic sources, and production from those sources. 
   ``Rahall's bill is yet another pitiful attempt to avoid doing what clearly needs to be done--make more U.S. reserves available to U.S. companies.'' That's in the Charleston Daily Mail editorial, 6/18/08. 
   The New Hampshire Union Leader: ``Of all the dumb ideas to come out of Washington in recent memory, last week Representative Carol Shea-Porter embraced what might be the dumbest of them all. Shea-Porter has cosponsored legislation to force oil companies that hold leases on Federal land to commence developing that land or lose the lease. Simply put, Shea-Porter hasn't the slightest idea what she's talking about.'' 
   Another one. ``Furthermore, AAPG's Nation says, current leases already require oil companies to take certain steps to use the land. The premise behind the bill Representative Carol Shea-Porter is cosponsoring--that oil companies have huge reserves of untapped oil wells sitting beneath already leased Federal land, which they can tap right away if only Congress orders it--is unsupported by the facts. Nation called it `laughable.' '' 
   It is a great day when the American people can prevail, when they will convince the Democratic leadership--and it's important that we say over and over and over and over again that it's the Democrats who are in charge of the Congress. They are the ones in charge of bringing bills to a vote. Republicans have common sense answers to this. We will increase American-produced energy sources, and it's time to bring those bills for a vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SAVING ENERGY THROUGH PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to thank my colleague from Florida for giving me a moment to speak on this bill. 
   We have had examples here all day today of the fact we are not going to be able to pass any meaningful energy legislation in this week before we go home for the 4th of July holiday. It is not just Republicans who are saying this. I want to point out the fact that in today's Politico, the story is headlined: ``Pelosi's Pump Pain. Aggressive Pre-Recess Plan Goes By the Wayside.'' 
   I would like to introduce this, without objection, into the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SAVING ENERGY THROUGH PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. ``Speaker Nancy Pelosi hoped to send House Democrats home for the Fourth of July recess with a series of votes that would show they're  serious about easing the pain at the pump.'' 
   That obviously is not going to be done. We are passing bills here today that deserve the ``Emperor's New Clothes Award.'' Somebody has to stand up and say the emperor has no new clothes, because the bills that we are being asked to vote on are shams. We are not doing anything to help average, hardworking Americans who are paying over $4 a gallon for gasoline as a result of the Democrats' control in the last 18 months of this Congress. 
   This is a sham. This is for show. They are going to go home and say they did something, but they did nothing to help the average working American, and it is time that people said so. We don't need to be allowing this sham to continue without being able to talk about it. 
   It says here ``nothing has gone according to plan. The price-gouging bill failed to garner the two-thirds support necessary to pass.'' Even Democrats are speaking against the bill. They are talking about how it is going to hurt gas-producing States and the gas-producing people are opposed to it, the Democrats are. 
   So nothing that is going on here is really going to help those of you who are paying over $4 a gallon for gasoline in this country. All we are doing is letting the Democrats put on a show that says that they are reducing the price of gasoline, when they are not. 
   Pelosi's Pump Pain--Aggressive pre-recess plan goes by wayside  
   Speaker Nancy Pelosi hoped to send House Democrats home for the Fourth of July recess with a series of votes that would show they're serious about easing the pain at the pump. 
   Their wish list included legislation giving the federal government more authority to crack down on price-gouging by oil companies and smaller vendors, a bill requiring energy producers to relinquish any land not currently being tapped for oil or gas production, and a measure creating new restrictions for commodity traders whose speculation has driven up the price of oil. 
   But nothing has gone according to plan. 
   The price-gouging bill failed to garner the two-thirds support necessary to pass. An accounting issue forced leaders to put off for a day the so-called ``use it or lose it'' measure. And the legislation to curb speculation is now caught up in a member fight over the proper path forward--a fight that exposes the misgivings some Democrats have about this activist agenda. 
   So instead of a barrage of legislation aimed at knocking back the Republicans' gas price assault, Democrats will settle for a measure giving local transit agencies $850 million in each of the next two years to reduce prices and add routes, as well as a symbolic vote calling on President Bush to crack down on ``excessive'' commodity speculation. 
   The Democrats' stumbles come as congressional Republicans continue to push aggressively for more domestic oil and gas production on the Outer Continental Shelf and in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as well as for an ambitious plan to turn coal shale beneath the High Plains into natural gas. 
   Republicans claim an amendment--offered by Pennsylvania Rep. John E. Peterson--to open offshore drilling sites 50 miles off the coast has enough support to survive a committee vote on the Appropriations panel. 
   The committee postponed consideration of the measure on which Peterson planned to offer his amendment, but Chairman Dave Obey (D-Wis.) told members Tuesday he plans to bring it up when lawmakers return from the weeklong Fourth of July recess. 
   As the Democrats struggle to hold together support for the existing offshore drilling ban, they find themselves coming apart on another energy issue: what to do about oil speculators. 
   Some Democrats, such as Agriculture Committee Chairman Collin Peterson of Minnesota and Rep. Bob Etheridge of North Carolina, would like party leaders to advance a modest measure that gives federal regulators more resources to crack down on ``excessive'' speculation in the United States and abroad. 
   ``I'm not, at this point, sold that speculation is the reason these prices are going up,'' Peterson said. 
   Others, such as Connecticut Rep. Rosa DeLauro and Maryland Rep. Chris Van Hollen, the Democratic Party's campaign chief, have urged the speaker to go further by making substantive changes to the current laws, members and aides said. 
   Add to that a jurisdictional squabble between Peterson's Agriculture Committee and members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee--including Michigan Democratic Rep. Bart Stupak--who have been working on this issue for years, and Pelosi faces a major internal challenge in bringing this legislation to the floor. 
   The speaker met with these and other members for more than an hour Wednesday morning. They were joined by Michae1 Greenberger, a law school professor at the University of Maryland and a former director of trading and markets at the Commodity futures Trading Commission, who has testified before Congress that speculators are driving up the price of oil. 
   But the participants who emerged from that meeting suggested the various committees of jurisdiction will begin looking at this legislation before leaders craft a compromise. 
   ``I think the consensus is that this needs to be done very carefully,'' said House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.). 
   ``We're going to focus on the actual legislation and try to come to a consensus,'' Peterson said. 
   Pelosi told reporters Wednesday that she expects legislation on the floor sometime next month, before lawmakers leave for the summer and for their respective nominating conventions. 
   Some Democrats wanted to vote on a modest bill this week to give themselves cover before the recess, aides said. 
   A number of conservative Blue Dog Democrats were also grumbling that party leaders were planning to put them in a bad spot politically with these aggressive oversight measures, aides said. Pelosi met with a number of these members Wednesday, but the speculation issue was only one of the topics discussed. 
   In the meantime, both parties continued their finger-pointing over the gas prices and the policies that might have an effect on them. 
   On Wednesday, the Department of the Interior questioned Democratic claims that energy producers could pump oil or gas on 68 million acres of land that has already been leased. This talking point became a common refrain last week; Democrats argued that the lease-holding oil companies could produce 4.8 million barrels of oil and more than 44 million barrels of natural gas each day under the current contracts. 
   ``The views contained in the report [issued by Democrats on the House Natural Resources Committee] are based on a misunderstanding of the very lengthy regulatory process,'' wrote C. Stephen Allred, the assistant secretary of the Interior for Land and Minerals Management, who favors increased oil and gas exploration. ``The existence of a lease does not guarantee the discovery of, or any particular quantity of, oil and gas.'' 
   In his letter--which can1e at the request of Republican Rep. Don Young of Alaska--Allred further argued that a lengthy permitting process creates a lag for energy producers to extract fossil fuels from this land. 
   In a statement issued in response to the letter, House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Nick J. Rahall (D-W.Va.) called it ``a diversion from the simple fact that there are 68 million acres of leased land not producing any oil and gas.'' 
   Rahall said that the administration's argument about the slow permitting process undercuts its arguments for lifting the offshore drilling ban; a long permitting process, he said, would slow any benefit to be gained from offshore drilling, too. 
   ``Roughly 80 percent of the oil and gas under federal waters are in areas already open for leasing. They should focus on that before trying to grab any more of our public lands,'' Rahall said. 
   The fight over gas prices also has a personal component. 
   Pelosi has staked her speakership, in part, on aggressive environmentalism to limit human contributions to global warming. This puts her at odds with those in her caucus who are more sympathetic to the oil and gas industry. That dynamic forces her to tread lightly inside the party, but it does not prevent her from issuing lofty challenges in the name of the environment. 
   ``We are in the battle of this generation,'' Pelosi told reporters Wednesday. ``We're ready to make the fight. We are united behind it.''  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (EXPRESSING PLEASURE THAT THE USE-IT-OR-LOSE-IT BILL DID NOT PASS -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I am so pleased that the Democrats' use-it-or-lose-it bill did not pass this House this afternoon. We have been saying for weeks that this is a sham. Use-it-or-lose-it is already the law of the land. Thankfully, enough people here, including 19 Democrats, voted with almost all the Republicans to turn back this sham against the people of the country. 
   What we need to be doing is we need to be producing more oil and gas for the American people, bringing down the price of gas. The Democrats are trying to pull the wool over the eyes of the American people, and, thankfully, they are not going to be able to do that since this bill did not pass. They wouldn't put it in committee to let it be debated. They put it on the suspension calendar, and it failed. 
   The American people during this 4th of July work period need to tell their Members, we want you to fulfill the promises you made 2 years ago. Bring down the price of gas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (IT'S TIME FOR REAL SOLUTIONS, NOT MORE BROKEN PROMISES FROM THE DEMOCRATS -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, more than 2 years ago, then-Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi promised the American people that Democrats had a ``commonsense plan to lower gas prices.'' Well, we're now over $4 a gallon, up more than 76 percent since Democrats took Congress. It's clear that plan never materialized. 
   American families, truck drivers, and small business owners deserve action from Washington, not more broken Democrat promises. They deserve real solutions, and that's exactly what we Republicans have to offer, initiatives that will make us less dependent on foreign Nations for energy, will create jobs here at home, and will grow the American economy. 
   In order to put us on a path to energy independence, we must increase the production of our vast amount of resources in an environmentally sound manner, while encouraging conservation. We must continue to invest in renewable energy resources. We must also increase our nuclear capacity, too. 
   It's time for real solutions, Mr. Speaker, not more broken promises from the Democrats. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (KENNETH JAMES GRAY POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.  
   Congressman Kenneth J. Gray, formerly an esteemed Member of the U.S. House of Representatives, has been a life long son of Illinois. Born in West Frankfort on November 14, 1924, Congressman Gray was a graduate of West Frankfort Community High School and owner of Gray Motors in West Frankfort. He served in the Second World War for two years until discharged in 1945 as a first sergeant and three bronze star recipient for his service. 
   After returning from the war, Congressman Gray became active in his community and was one of the founders of the Walking Dog Foundation for the Blind and an active leader in the American Legion. 
   In the same district where Mr. Gray served as the Commander of the American Legion, he was encouraged to run against the incumbent Congressman as many thought that the issues affecting the veterans of southern Illinois were being overlooked. 
   While running for Congress for the first time in 1954, his campaign slogan was ``a fighting man for a fighting job,'' which he lived up to during the 11 Congressional terms he served the citizens of the 25th District of Illinois. He ran on the platform of change for the people in his District. Southern Illinois was suffering a period of high unemployment at the time Mr. Gray was running for Congress. After his election, he set about meeting the challenges of getting the 30,000 unemployed people back to work. 
   He was placed on the Public Works Committee at the beginning of his first term, where he was able to shed light on the plight of his constituents and worked to get projects directed to his District. Congressman Gray became known throughout his career as a man who, in his words, wouldn't roll down his sleeves until the job was done. To this day, he has not rolled down his sleeves and continues to get things done. You can see his footprints on such things as hospitals, schools, and federal buildings. 
   Because of Congressman Gray's many accomplishments on behalf of the citizens of Southern Illinois as well as the entire country, it is very fitting that we would designate the naming of the West Frankfort Post Office after Congressman Gray. We wish Congressman Gray well during his illness and thank him for his life-long service to the United States.  
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (TROUTMAN INDEPENDENCE DAY PARADE -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Last week, when I was home in North Carolina, I enjoyed celebrating our American freedom and independence in several parades and celebrations. One of the highlights of the many celebrations was the town of Troutman, North Carolina's Fourth Annual Independence Day Parade. 
   Thanks to the leadership of Parade Committee Chairman Dennis Cleary and members of the Marine Corps League Detachment 1091, as well as Troutman Mayor Elbert Richardson and many local citizens, this celebration was a tremendous display of American patriotism. 
   More than 200 Vietnam veterans served as grand marshals for this year's parade, as they led attendees through the streets of Troutman to the loud applause and cheers of their fellow citizens who welcomed them home with yellow ribbons tied along the parade route. 
   Many local organizations participated in this one-of-a-kind parade, led by many members of North Carolina's Rolling Thunder chapters, such as Ross Moore; North Carolina Rolling Thunder Chapter 2 from Statesville led by Chapter President George ``Mike'' Keller, a U.S. Army Vietnam veteran; North Carolina Rolling Thunder Chapter 6 from Winston-Salem led by Chapter President Bob Penn, a U.S. Marine Corps Vietnam veteran; as well as many veterans from the local American Legion, the local Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the local Disabled American Veterans. 
   It was an honor to join one of America's true heroes in the parade, Medal of Honor recipient Rodolfo P. Hernandez. Parading through Troutman with heroes like Mr. Hernandez is a poignant reminder of why it has been such a pleasure to participate in the celebration for the past 4 years. After all, this is a celebration of what makes America great: Our love for liberty and willingness to make great personal sacrifice for the cause of liberty.          
   I thank also all those who worked behind the scenes to make this annual parade another great success. I give a special thanks to our veterans and current service men and women, without whom we would have little to celebrate this year. Their sacrifices are not forgotten and must not be overlooked as they put their lives on the line each day to secure our freedoms. We are the land of the free because they are the brave. 
   God bless our military men and women and God bless America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (FEDERAL LAND ASSISTANCE, MANAGEMENT AND ENHANCEMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, these fires are extremely dangerous, and our heart goes out to all those people in California who are suffering from these fires and all over the country. 
   In my area, we rely on volunteer firefighters who are dedicated and whose service I cherish. However, we're putting these dedicated servants who are volunteers all over this country at a terrible disadvantage with gas costs at $4.11 a gallon; 75 percent higher since the Democrats took control of Congress. 
   Now, let me say that again. Many Americans do not realize that the Democrats are in control of Congress. We are not being allowed to vote on increasing the supply of gasoline by the Democrats. 
   Now, what is the Democratic strategy for increasing supply of gasoline, which is what we have to do to bring down the price? Let me quote from an article in yesterday's Hill newspaper an aide to Speaker Pelosi.     
   ``Right now our strategy on gas prices is `Drive small cars and wait for the wind.' '' Now, that reminds me of the episode which many people will remember from their history books, when the people of France were starving, people went to the Queen and said that the people need bread, they're begging for bread. She said, ``Let them eat cake.'' Again, the strategy of the Democrats is ``Right now our strategy on gas prices is `Drive small cars and wait for the wind.' '' 
   Folks, that's not what we want in terms of leadership. We need leadership on this issue. We need action to bring down the price of gasoline. And what will bring down the price of gasoline is American-made energy. We are not being allowed to produce American-made energy that we can produce to bring down the price of gasoline. 
   On the last bill, the Democrats talked about the fact that our unemployment rate is up. We had 54 straight months of job growth in this country until January of this year when gas prices really started to go up. The price of gas is affecting everything in this country. Again, it's Democratic leadership that has put us in this position, not Republican leadership. 
   I met today with people from the Turkey Federation. They're concerned about the price of feed. It's driving up the cost of food. Why? Because we're giving such great subsidies to ethanol; so corn is being used to produce ethanol, not going into feed for our animals. We know that's happening all over the place. 
   Why is it that Congress has a 9 percent approval rating right now? It's because, as the Wall Street Journal said, this is the most do-nothing Congress in 20 years. 
   We have to respond to the American people. The American people have to know that the Democrats are in charge and they are not responding. We can bring down the price of oil, we can help volunteer firefighters, we can bring  down the cost of food by providing American-made energy, and it's time that we started doing that. 
   Democrats think you can defy the law of supply and demand. We cannot do that. If we increase supply, we will be able to bring down the price of gasoline, and that's what we have to do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (EDUCATION: THE QUALITY OF OUR NATION'S SCHOOLS -- (House of Representatives - April 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to thank the gentleman from California for his leadership on this special order tonight, and thank him for his leadership on the Education Committee as chairman and now as ranking member. 
   I grew up in the mountains of North Carolina in a house with no electricity and no running water, with parents with a sixth grade and ninth grade education. My husband grew up in a similar situation, both his parents totally illiterate. But we both give credit for the success that we have had in life to public school teachers and principals who took an interest in us when we were in school and encouraged us to utilize our talents by staying in school and by going on to college. So I in no way disparage the role of teachers or the role of education in our society. In fact, I trumpet it because it has been so important to me. And I spent most of my life working in education, as the gentleman from California said, and it has been a wonderful opportunity for me. 
   However, I have great concerns about the role of the Federal Government in education in our country, and I will continue to express those concerns because I remember very well my own excellent education in a county that had very little money. The school buildings weren't wonderful, we had almost no science lab, but we had excellent teachers again who cared about the students. And I would put up that education against anything that is happening in the country today. 
   Now, I am happy to serve on the Education and Labor Committee. And last year, when talks began in the committee on the reauthorization of No Child Left Behind, I did what I often do, and that is to look at the genesis and the history of the legislation. And it was a real revelation to me at the time that No Child Left Behind legislation is simply the latest reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, called ESEA by people in education, which was created in 1965 by President Johnson in the midst of the war on poverty. Most folks are unaware that the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 was in fact the seventh reauthorization of this 1965 legislation. So when you hear it talked about, very few people ever make that connection. 
   Now, I heard a lot of criticism of No Child Left Behind before I was elected and after I was elected. And so one of the things that I did last year in my district was to have a forum with parents, teachers, and administrators about their concerns with No Child Left Behind; and the people who came to that forum gave me a lot of information that has been very helpful to me in helping to formulate what I think we ought to be doing with No Child Left Behind. 
   Part of the very important feedback that I received is that teachers and principals welcome appropriate accountability for Federal education funding. Teachers and administrators don't want to do away with accountability. What they are concerned about is having appropriate accountability. 
   Now, I want to talk a little bit about title I, and I know some of my colleagues have mentioned this before. Title I of No Child Left Behind, or the ESEA Act as it used to be called, is the largest single grant program in the U.S. Department of Education. It has been around since 1965. But between 1965 and 2002, American taxpayers funded almost $200 billion through title I spending with little or no discernible effect in improving the educational opportunities for disadvantaged children, which was the original intent of the law. 
   I think most of us realize that it is not just funding that improves academic performance or gets anything out of programs. But, many of the Federal programs and regulations have simply not improved the performance of disadvantaged children as a group. 
   My long-standing position has been, and continues to be, that the education of America's youth would be better served if Washington bureaucrats were removed from the equation. Control and accountability should be returned to local communities, where they can effectively make changes in the areas they know need it most.     
   So I am disappointed in what looks like the direction that the majority is taking in Congress now, which is to eliminate much of the accountability that was put into No Child Left Behind, or the ESEA, when it was reauthorized in 2001, but simply put more funding into it. I think that is going in the wrong direction. We know that 9-year-olds have made more reading progress in the last 5 years than in the previous 28 years combined. 
   We can achieve excellence in education by encouraging the kind of accountability that promotes locally focused education and ultimately well educated young people. Parents, students and educators need more choices in the way No Child Left Behind is administered. The current my-way-or-the-highway approach to the Federal funding of education is broken, and imposing a top-down mechanism shortchanges millions of students and parents. 
   A good system will have more flexibility and will put the best decision makers in the driver's seat. Those are the parents and local educators who know what works best for students and should have the greater control and input. 
   We know in almost every program that a Federal Government one-size-fits-all approach does not work. It doesn't allow for tailor-made solutions to the unique situations facing school systems in every single district in America. What works in one State doesn't work in another one. 
   Reducing the role of the Federal Government makes sense for students who are not served by cookie-cutter policies promulgated by Washington bureaucrats. 
   There are many of us who believe that education is not the province of the Federal Government at all. However, we also know that efforts to remove the Federal Government from education have not passed and they are not going to pass. So the best thing that we can do is to make sure that we have accountability for the money that is spent in education, as we should have accountability in every program that takes Federal dollars. 
   Mr. Ranking Member, I am going to yield back to you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE ECONOMY -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, the last few days have brought terrific news for American workers and taxpayers. Today, the markets closed at new record highs. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at 14,164; the S&P at 1,565. 
   Last week the Bureau of Labor Statistics released new jobs figures: 110,000 jobs created in September. September 2007, is the 49th consecutive month of job growth, setting a new record for the longest uninterrupted expansion of the U.S. labor market. Since August 2003, our economy has created more than 8.1 million jobs, and the unemployment rate remains low at 4.7 percent. 
   We also learned last week that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said the Federal deficit came in at $161 billion for the just-completed fiscal year, down significantly from last year's deficit of $248 billion. 
   The Wall Street Journal editorial board noted today that ``since 2004 deficit spending has tumbled by $251 billion, which is one of the most rapid 3-year declines in U.S. history. The deficit as a share of the economy is down to 1.2 percent or about half the average of the last 50 years.'' A deficit at 1.2 percent share of the economy. In the words of the Associated Press, ``The fiscal picture is the best it's been since 2001.'' 
   Taken together, this shows the American economy remains strong, a strength derived from the hard work of the American people and Republican pro-growth, low-tax policies. 
   But as sure as the sun is going to rise in the morning and set in the evening, House Democrats are going to do their best to jeopardize our economic growth through higher taxes and spending increases. The Wall Street Journal warned this morning that the Democrat ``Congress is already gearing up to splurge again, with its $35 billion expansion in the children's health program, a $286 billion 5-year farm bill, $23 billion in water projects, and $22 billion more in non-defense discretionary spending. Combine this blowout with slowing revenue growth due to the housing recession, and the deficit may not fall again in 2008. This is all the more reason for President Bush to finally use his veto pen on spending bills.''  
   And that's just spending. Democrats continue to treat higher tax as a cure-all. Frustrated by their inability to choke of funds for our troops in harm's way, last week top Democrats on the Appropriations Committee proposed a $150 billion war tax. This is just the latest. Consider some of the recent Democrat tax hike proposals: 
   A 50 cent increase per gallon of Federal gas tax hike from the Energy and Commerce Committee chairman. A 5-cent increase per gallon of Federal gas tax hike from the Transportation Committee chairman. A massive $392.5 billion tax increase on middle-class families in their fiscal year 2008 budget. More than $15 billion in new energy taxes passed in July that will raise gasoline prices on consumers. A $7.5 billion tax increase in their farm bill which threatens 5.1 million American jobs and greater investment in the U.S. 
   It seems every time they propose to raise taxes, the deficit falls to historic lows. Each time they refuse to rein in spending, job creation breaks a new record. Each time they refuse to live up to their promise of fiscal responsibility, the stock market closes at record highs. 
   That's bad news for Democrats and terrific news for the American people. 
   Let's support the Republican policies that have made this success possible and let us see it continue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SCHIP EXPANSION -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, Congress's SCHIP legislation is seriously flawed. It takes a bipartisan program that was working well and turns it into a huge new entitlement. 
   It is a bold step towards government expansion into socialized medicine. According to the Congressional Budget Office, 2 million children who are already covered by private insurance will switch to the SCHIP program under the proposed expansion. This is more than one in three of the projected new enrollees. 
   In plain terms, this means we are providing incentives for people to drop their health insurance in favor of government-funded health care. And many of the people who will be dropping their health insurance will be making as much as $60,000. 
   This doesn't make sense. The government has no business luring Americans onto the Federal health care rolls and making them dependent on the government to provide health care. 
   Call it what you want, but this $35 billion expansion is not just about getting health care for kids. It is the early stages of a massive socialized health system that slowly erodes individual control in favor of government control of your health care. We don't need to be doing that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HAPPY BIRTHDAY, JERRY BAKER, AMERICA'S MASTER GARDENER -- (House of Representatives - June 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to salute Jerry Baker, America's master gardener, as he celebrates his birthday. As a former owner of a nursery business, I've come to appreciate the wit and wisdom that Jerry has given to gardeners across the country for more than three decades. 
   Jerry has been offering tips for almost as long as I can remember. His folksy and down-to-earth advice has been helping everyone from city dwellers trying to master a finicky herb garden in a window box to longtime gardeners across rural America who produce those ubiquitous wheelbarrows full of zucchini. 
   Thanks to Jerry, our gardens have been producing more with less. Today, with dozens of books full of garden advice in print and a weekly nationwide radio show where he solves the gardening problems of people across the country, Jerry is well-established as America's go-to guy on all things gardening. 
   As he marks one more year on his calendar, I rise to wish him many more years of garden mastering. Happy birthday, Jerry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word. 
   Mr. Chairman, I also rise to support the amendment of my colleague from Georgia, Mr. Westmoreland. I want to reiterate some of the comments that have already been made. 
   We simply have to start exercising fiscal discipline in this House. I often talk about how the Republicans missed the mark by overspending in the last few years and I talk about they, not we, because I came here as a fiscal conservative. I am even more of a fiscal conservative than I was when I first came to Congress, and I think most Members of my party have gotten up and admitted that we have spent too much money in the last few years. But most people now have seen the error of our ways, and we know that we have to start cutting, and we need to start right here. We talked about this last week, but we need to continue to talk about it. 
   We are on track for pretty soon 70 cents out of every dollar of Federal money going in to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, in the very, very near future. We do not need to take our country in that direction. We have got to start trimming budgets, and this is the place to start now. 
   If we do not do that, we are not only going to see a repeat of what the Democrats are bringing to us, the biggest tax increase in American history this year, we are going to continue to see that to the point where we are going to be taxing most of the money that Americans make, and we are going to destroy this country with that kind of an attitude. 
   Our economy is doing great because of the tax cuts that were instituted in 2001 and 2003, and the only way we can maintain that type of economy is for us to control spending. We don't have a revenue problem in this country. We have a spending problem. We need serious fundamental reform of our spending. We need fiscal discipline. 
   As my colleagues have said, we are dealing with spending at twice the rate of inflation. American families cannot stand that. They do not want us to continue spending at the level that we are spending. It is on track to be the largest spending increase that we have seen in a long, long time in this country. 
   We heard over and over again last year on the floor from the party that is now the majority party, then the minority party, that we were spending too much money. Here they are, expanding what was spent last year, and expanding it at a rate that is simply unsustainable. They obviously did not mean what they said last year when they said we were spending too much money. 
   It is a small cut. Again, I reiterate what my colleagues have said. We have been in Washington too long when we think of $18 million as a small cut. But as Everett Dirksen said many, many years ago, ``A million here and a million there, and pretty soon you are talking about real money.'' That is what we are doing. 
   Let me put Federal spending into some context for the American people.  The United States Federal Government is on track to spend more money next year than Germany's entire economy in the year 2005. Germany is and has been the third largest economy in the world for a long, long time. There are only two countries in the world with entire economies that are larger than the U.S. Government budget, the United States itself and Japan. 
   So it is important that we start cutting back, and we have to do it a little bit at a time. If there is anybody in this country who believes that throwing more money at a problem from the Federal Government's level solves problems, then they haven't looked at the statistics on our education system, they haven't looked at the statistics on what has happened with control of disasters. We know that simply throwing money at a problem does not solve the problem. 
   We need accountability, we need efficiency, and we really need to focus on those issues before we spend additional dollars. 
   I think that we do need more oversight of how Federal Government programs are run. But simply throwing more money at the problem won't create that oversight for us. We have to get down in the trenches, examine programs, see how money is being spent, and say what effect did you get from this money you are currently spending.     
   In most cases we can probably cut budgets and come out far ahead. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I thank my friend from Ohio for his leadership on this bill, and I am happy to come and lend my comments to the discussion. 
   Last year the Democrats got elected partly on the basis of their promise to cut spending. They made a big to-do about the fact that we were increasing spending. Republicans had done that. This is not cutting spending; this is holding the line on spending. 
   The eight appropriations bills that have passed the House so far are $34 billion above last year's spending levels. That is not fulfilling the promises that they made to help hold the line and even cut spending. As my colleagues have said, this inevitably is going to lead to the largest tax increase in the history of this country. 
   Furthermore, in terms of this bill in particular, I have searched the Constitution and I see no role for the Federal Government in most of what is going to be funded in this bill. But the Democrats have never met a request for spending that they didn't like, and so they are going on willy-nilly increasing spending, putting the American taxpayer at risk, and increasing the deficit in this country; whereas, the tax cuts that were passed in 2001 and 2003 have led us to a very, very strong economy which we know is benefiting the American people right now. 
   Furthermore, none of the promises that they made about slowing the exploding growth of Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid that would result in deficit reduction have been dealt with in this Congress. 
   We have simply got to come to grips with the fact that we cannot tax the American people to the level at which they are being taxed and the level to which the Democrats want them to be taxed. We have to hold the line on spending, and I support this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to thank my colleague from Georgia. 
   Mr. Chairman, this budget proposal isn't a real surprise; it's business as usual for the Democrats and proves that their promises to be fiscally responsible are just empty rhetoric. If this budget, along with the other budgets that we have been approving, are approved, it signals a return to the Democrats' beloved tax-and-spend model for government. They are very happy to try to run the lives of all Americans from the Federal level. 
   The 2001 and 2003 tax cuts have produced a real decrease in the tax burden on North Carolina's married couples, single parents, and families. Almost every taxpayer, low-income, married, single or self-employed, will lose valuable tax cuts under the assumptions made in the Democrat budget proposal earlier this year, and that would cover the costs that are in this budget tonight. 
   The economy is booming. The stock market is doing great. People's 401(k) plans are increasing tremendously. But they want to stop that because they want to spend your money. They think they know better how to spend your money than you know how to spend your money. 
   The Federal Government doesn't have a revenue problem. Revenues increased by 14.5 percent in 2005, 11.6 percent in 2006, and they are projected to grow by an additional $167 billion, or 7 percent, this year, according to the latest OMB estimate. 
   Again, the economy is booming, things are going great, but the Democrats would put a halt on that with their profligate spending. To put it another way, the Federal Government is projected to collect $800 billion more in revenue in 2007 than was just the case 4 years ago, $2.6 trillion in 2007 compared to $1.8 trillion in 2003.     
   We need to slow down spending and allow the American people to keep more of their money. They know how to spend it better than Federal bureaucrats do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THIS MAY BE THE DAY AMERICA DIED -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, there is a song ``The Day the Music Died.'' I don't think it is too much of a stretch to say this may be the day America died. I am not alone in feeling that what the Congress is about to do today is a very, very serious, consequential thing for this country. 
   I want to quote from an article from Investor's Business Daily today. 
   ``After years of faking it, the Federal Government has finally hit bottom or, depending on how you look at it, ascended to its level of maximum destructive incompetence.'' 
   ``Through its power over education and communications, Washington already influences the creation and dissemination of knowledge. Once it takes over the financial industry, nothing will be left standing in the way of the Federal Government's dominance. States and localities are mere administrative units and disbursing agents for Washington. Government has won its war against religion, sidelining churches.'' 
   ``American capitalism is not just an economic theory. It is a way of life where rewards are based on achievement, not identity or class, and is therefore inextricably bound up with individual freedom and American exceptionalism.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (WALL STREET BAILOUT -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I don't think any vote in the Congress has had as much attention in recent years as the vote we took on Monday and the vote that we took today. I think that is good for the American people to have had their focus placed on the Congress in the midst of all that's being said about the presidential debates, the presidential race. In fact, not just because I'm a Member of Congress, but because of what Congress does in relationship to the Presidency, I think it is important that there be more balance in the focus on our branches of government. I think there is not enough about what happens in Congress, and I hope that what happened this week will cause more people to pay attention because every day that we pass a bill, we have an impact on people's lives, and folks can either be proactive or reactive to what we do. 
   But I think the vote that we took Monday and the vote that we took today was one that everyone--I know in my conference, in the Republican Conference--took extremely seriously. And I have confidence that everyone who cast a vote made a careful decision based on their conscience, and that's the way it should be for every vote that we take. 
   But now that this bill has passed the Congress, we must work together in a bipartisan way to hold those accountable who got us into this mess. We had many groups this week that worked in a bipartisan way to try to effect this bill. Unfortunately, we were not given a chance to do that because the process promised to us by the Democratic majority has never materialized. We were promised open rules, we were promised debate, we were promised the ability to offer amendments, that was not allowed today, that was not allowed Monday. We could have made a very bad bill better had we had that opportunity. 
   I do believe that my Republican colleagues who worked on this bill got some good things into the bill, but it was still not a good bill, in my opinion. 
   We have reckless financial institutions, Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae and those others who are at fault must be held accountable, and we must have meaningful reforms so we don't find ourselves in this situation again. 
   The problem we're facing now began in the 1990s, when the Federal Government decided to put pressure on mortgage lenders to make loans to high-risk borrowers in order to increase homeownership in America. Increased homeownership is a noble goal and a piece of the American dream, but pushing homeownership for people who could not afford the payments that come with homeownership was a fatally flawed approach. This created a new market for lenders who soon rushed to make heaps of money by inducing people who could only afford small houses to buy large ones instead.     
   In other words, this crisis has its roots in a failed government botching an attempt to do something good. This is not a crisis of the market. Capitalism works. Our market system works. This is a failure of our government. 
   Congress must address this underlying problem, in the subprime lending glut that stemmed from Fannie and Freddie's reckless underwriting of subprime lending. Both of these government-sponsored enterprises were ringleaders in the subprime circus, heading up the move into risky lending and even backing much of the financial industry's shaky mortgage loans. By backing the excesses of subprime lending, Fannie and Freddie fed the monster that today threatens our economic strength. 
   And nothing in the bill that was just passed does anything about that, and that's one of the many flaws of the bill. And today in Congressional Quarterly, we read that there is not the oversight that we need to have, and we need that oversight for this legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I share the belief of my predecessor here: I go to sleep tonight praying that those of us who opposed this bill were wrong and those who supported it were right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CONGRESS MUST FIX FISA PERMANENTLY -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, America's intelligence community has been without the tools it needs to monitor foreign terrorist communications for weeks. Last month, the Senate passed a bipartisan bill that put the necessary tools in place, but for some reason the majority will not allow a vote in the House on this broadly supported bill. 
   The bipartisan Senate legislation had the votes of 21 Senate Democrats. It would have permanently fixed FISA and enabled our intelligence community to monitor foreign terrorists' electronics communications effectively. 
   The House's refusal to consider this legislation has created bureaucratic hurdles that made our intelligence gathering on foreign terrorists unnecessarily difficult. As Senate Intelligence Chairman Jay Rockefeller said last month, America's intelligence gathering capability is being degraded. 
   The House should not adjourn until we have passed a permanent FISA fix that protects Americans and equips our intelligence community with the tools to thwart the plans of foreign terrorists. The American people expect and deserve no less. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING THE LIFE OF FRANCES BARHAM -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of a life well lived. Last week a great American and a good friend of mine Mrs. Frances Barham of Mayodan, North Carolina, passed away. 
   My friend Frances was a lifelong North Carolinian, a woman dedicated to her community, her State, and her country. She was renowned for her unflagging attention to community issues both large and small. Her example of service is perhaps best exemplified by her receiving the distinguished North Carolina Long Leaf Pine Award, a high honor bestowed on only the finest of North Carolina citizens. 
   Over the course of her remarkable life, Frances positively influenced countless students in her three-decade-long service in Rockingham County schools. She was an active member of her church for more than 70 years, and was a fixture of community involvement and service. 
   Everywhere Frances invested her time, she made a difference, whether as a Girl Scout leader, as a member of the Mayodan Historical Society, or as a board member of the John Motley Morehead School of the Blind. In 1990, her long record of service was recognized by the people of Mayodan when she was named the town's Citizen of the Year. 
   She was also actively involved in the political process, because she knew that freedom meant exercising her political rights as an American. A reflection of her involvement and commitment to the realm of public service is that she was the first woman to chair the Board of Elections of Rockingham County. 
   While I was not able to attend her funeral on Monday, I know that her life was celebrated by many, and her passing leaves a hole in many, many people's lives. To all she left behind, I extend my sincere condolences. She was a great woman, and we will miss her ready smile and sharp wit. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CONSTITUTION CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you so much. I appreciate the leadership that the three of you have given to this issue tonight and appreciate the opportunity to be involved with this discussion. I'm so pleased to be a part of the Constitution Caucus and am glad that we have the opportunities that we have to bring up issues as they relate to the Constitution and to provide an alternative. And we've had lots and lots of opportunities in this session of the Congress so far. 
   I appreciate your mentioning voting rights for the citizens of D.C. I think that that bill having passed out of the House has to be one of the worst things that's 
   happened in this House in a long time because it's so clearly unconstitutional. And I think, again, that it's up to us constantly to be reminding the people of this country and the people of this body that we take an oath to uphold the Constitution, and that is our primary responsibility. And when Members of this House don't follow their oath, then it's important for us to talk about it. 
   I am opposed to H.R. 811 for many reasons. I support its main goal, which is to create a paper trail. I think having a verifiable record of how a person voted is important. But this bill is extraordinarily flawed. Number one, it creates several new mandates on States before the 2008 election. It forces States to meet totally unrealistic time lines that cannot be met. It's an example, again, I think, of the arrogance of this body in this session. I think that one of the things the Framers of the Constitution and the Founders of this country feared so much was too much control by the Federal Government. 
   And what we are seeing happening in this session of the Congress is more and more control being taken over by the Federal Government, and more and more decisions being pushed into Washington, as opposed to being pushed into the State, or being left at the State and local levels. And my colleagues have talked a little bit about that as it relates to different States have given some historical background on how things have been done in the past. But I think, again, it's important that we acknowledge that our government governs best that governs least. And the more decisions that we leave at the local and State levels, the better off this country's going to be. And if we know that, we know by numbers too. We don't even have to try to prove it from a philosophical level. 
   Twenty-seven States, including North Carolina, that I represent, have already implemented their own paper trail system, and another 13 are currently considering legislation. We should allow the States to do this and do it the way they need to be doing it. I have heard nothing but negative comments about this bill. Nobody has contacted me asking me to support it. And many groups that have a vested interest in this issue have contacted us. Most of us have been contacted by the Election Technology Council, and they've said that it would take 54 months for proper research development and implementation on machinery requirements to get this bill into effect, and there's only going to be 15 months. 
   We've had problems since 2000 in terms of verifying various elections in this country. This bill would be a nightmare if it were to pass, because the local election boards would have great difficulty with implementing it, and it would call into question all kinds of elections, I fear, and create chaos at the local level. We don't need that. The feeling of the American people right now toward Congress is, their opinion of us is the lowest it's ever been. And we don't need to be doing things to give them an even lower opinion of ourselves. What we need to do is get out of the way and not engage ourselves in activities that we have no business being engaged in. This is not something that we need to do from a point of view of the Constitution. It is something that should be left at the local level. It is not something that we need to do in terms of financing. It's going to be a very, very expensive proposition. We do not need to be adding to the deficit. We don't need to be doing any more Federal spending than is absolutely necessary. And we need to show the American people that we don't think that we should be running everything out of the District of Columbia when we have State and local officials perfectly capable, much more capable than we are to do this. We don't need to take away the ability of the locals to determine their needs. 
   And, again, I want to thank my colleagues for starting this conversation here tonight and getting it going to explain to people why many of us are concerned about H.R. 811. Even though we want verifiable evidence of a person's vote, this is not the right way to go, and we need to look for alternatives to this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CELEBRATING THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF HOLLAND TRANSFER COMPANY -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to one of the finest and oldest logistics companies in the State of North Carolina. Holland Transfer Company in Statesville, North Carolina embodies the ethics of good business that separates great companies from the rest. 
   This week, Holland Transfer celebrates its 100th anniversary and its longstanding commitment to running a customer service-centered business. This company has transported goods and materials to North Carolina businesses since 1907 and is the oldest carrier in the State. 
   In the 100 years since its founding, Holland has built a strong reputation as a company that its customers can depend on to provide high-quality service without having to worry about getting shortchanged. Not many companies reach such a 100-year benchmark. In fact, it is doubtful that when Holland Transfer Company began with a team of horses and a single wagon that its founder, S.R. Holland, envisioned a company that today is a major part of the Statesville community. 
   Today, Holland Transfer embodies Christian values as part of its company character. These values are an integral part of what has made Holland Transfer successful for 100 years. I wish this fine company and all its employees all the best and many more years of doing business the right way. It is businesses like Holland Transfer that make this country great. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CAPTIVE PRIMATE SAFETY ACT -- (House of Representatives - June 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to thank my colleague from Utah for yielding. 
   I agree with my colleague from Utah that we ought to be dealing with things that are important to the American people, and it seems to me that this bill is not something that is high on the agenda of most Americans. What is high on the agenda of most Americans is the cost of gas and oil in this country. The Democratic leadership simply is refusing to deal with it and deal with it in a realistic manner. 
   I think it's very important that we point out the history of our having dealt with these issues over the years and what Republicans have tried to do. Let me talk about the issues of supply and demand. We have tried and tried to increase the supply of fuel oil and gasoline in this country for many years. Let me tell you how we have voted on this issue: 
   On ANWR exploration, House Republicans, 91 percent of us, have supported that. Eighty-six percent of House Democrats have opposed it. Consistently Democrats have voted against creating more supply by drilling in ANWR, a place about the size of a postage stamp on a football field as the size of ANWR is to the State of Alaska. 
   How about coal-to-liquid. There are many ways that we can help our energy situation in this country. The Democrats say we can't drill our way out of it. Well, there are lots of ways that we could get the resources we need. We have supported the issue of turning coal into liquid fuel for a long, long time. Ninety-seven percent of Republicans have supported it. Seventy-eight percent of Democrats have opposed it. 
   How about exploring oil shale. Ninety percent of Republicans have supported that issue. Eighty-six percent of  Democrats have opposed it. It is no wonder that we are having problems with supply of energy resources in this country when we have had almost all Democrats opposing it over the years. 
   How about drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf. Eighty-one percent of House Republicans have supported it. Eighty-three percent of House Democrats have opposed it. 
   How about increasing refinery capacity in this country, which is an issue in terms of providing the supply we need. Ninety-seven percent of House Republicans have supported increasing refinery capacity. Ninety-six percent of House Democrats have opposed it. 
   Just so people know, we have validated these statistics by going back and counting the actual votes on these issues over the years. 
   So here is the summary: Ninety-one percent on average of House Republicans have historically voted to increase the production of American-made oil and gas. We do have the capability in this country to become energy independent. But 86 percent of House Democrats have historically voted against increasing the production of American-made oil and gas. They obviously want us to remain dependent on foreign oil. It is something I simply cannot understand. They seem to want the American people to suffer. They and their radical environmentalist friends don't want us to do anything to increase the supply of oil and gas. Republicans do want to increase the supply of oil and gas, and the facts prove it out. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING WKSK, A PILLAR OF THE ASHE COMMUNITY -- (House of Representatives - June 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a pillar of the Ashe County, North Carolina, community, WKSK radio and its owner Jan Caddell. Most of the Fifth District of North Carolina is a rural landscape, and beautiful, mountainous Ashe County is no exception.  
   As people who live in rural America well know, local radio stations are often the lifeblood of vital community life. WKSK radio is just such a radio station, and recent audience measurement results illustrate just that. According to these results, WKSK has the most loyal local audience in its home county of any station in North Carolina. 
   Next year, WKSK will celebrate the 50-year mark of service to the people of Ashe County. The fact that nearly 55 percent of listeners in Ashe tune their radios to WKSK, seven times more than the next closest station, is a true testament to the emphasis that WKSK places on serving Ashe County. 
   WKSK radio is a real community fixture, and I wish the station 50 more years of sterling service to the High Country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF AMERICAN EAGLE DAY -- (House of Representatives - June 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleague from Utah for yielding me time, and I want to congratulate and commend my colleague from Tennessee (Mr. Davis) for his work on this resolution. 
   I want to say that this Capitol Building in which we are working today and which people are visiting every day is one of the most wonderful symbols of our country. The American bald eagle is another symbol of our country, 
   An intangible symbol of our country has always been our independence and our innovative nature and our freedom. The people all around the world know this country for what we stand for: freedom, and the rights of individuals, and the ability to solve problems, and to create ways to solve those problems. 
   But right now our way of life is being threatened because of the price of gasoline in this country, and there are many who believe that there are liberals in this country who think that the United States should be taken down a peg or two, that we shouldn't be allowed to be the great Nation that we are; and that one way of doing that is by crippling the United States through the inability to be independent with gas and oil. 
   But I want to say that that's not the direction that Republicans want to be going. Republicans want us to have the supply that we need for gasoline so that we can bring down the price of gasoline. We know that Democrats have blocked our ability for that. I spoke about that a few minutes ago, and I'm not going to repeat that; but I heard my colleague on the other side of the aisle talking about the argument that there are many, many leases out there that oil companies are not utilizing. That's another tactic of the Democrats: blame the oil companies, blame George Bush, blame everybody else for the problems that we have. Don't take the responsibility yourself. But again, unfortunately, we have the facts to back up what we know is true, which is Democrats have voted against our increasing supplies. 
   They're also wrong on the issue of leases. They talk about ``use it or lose it.'' They want to introduce a bill that has no basis. They're inventing false arguments again. 
   ``Use it or lose it'' is already the law. For Federal onshore competitive oil and gas leases, an oil company must have a producing well by 10 years. This comes from section 17(e) of the Mineral Leasing Act. Prior to 1992, the lease term was 5 years. The Energy Policy Act of 1992, under a Democratically controlled House, modified it to 10 years. So it's the Democrats who changed the leasing terms. 
   For Federal offshore oil and gas leases, an oil company must produce energy between 5 to 10 years. It's in the government's discretion. This is from the Outer Continental Shelf Land Act. So Democrats, House Democrats, do not even know what is the existing law now. 
   What Democrats would have you believe is that a lease is a license to produce oil and gas. It is not. A lease is only the start of a process involving several steps the government requires an oil company to take before it may even receive permission to drill. 
   Democrats are effectively arguing that we should pull leases away from oil companies before they receive permission to drill. This is like saying we should flunk a first grader on his first day of school because he has not yet taken his final exam. 
   Most of the drilling on Federal leases has been for natural gas, and natural gas production was up, way up last year, and so was demand. In fact, the industry is producing more gas under these leases, but they cannot keep up with the demand because Democrats and their radical environmental allies will not allow the leasing of new areas and 97 percent of Federal offshore areas are not leased; 94 percent of Federal onshore areas are not leased. 
   We can solve our energy problems in this country, and we do have them, but they've been brought on by the Democrats who say, We can't drill our way out of this. No, but we can do many things, including drilling. That will be a part of what we can do, and we can be energy independent. But again, many of them don't want us to be. 
   They don't want us to have a Nation that soars into greatness like the bald eagle that we are honoring in this resolution or continue the great reputation that we have had over the years for being the greatest Nation on earth. They would like to take us down a peg or two. I know Republicans and most Americans don't agree with them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CLEMMONS ROTARY CLUB CREATES INNOVATIVE PUBLIC OUTREACH PROGRAM -- (House of Representatives - June 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to praise the critical community service being performed by the Rotary Club of Clemmons, North Carolina. 
   The Clemmons Rotary Club launched a unique initiative this year to boost awareness of organ and tissue donor programs in North Carolina. They have spruced up the sides of about a dozen semi-truck trailers with huge public service ads, calling attention to the constant need for organ donors in North Carolina. Each truck highlights organ donor programs in North Carolina and directs potential donors to visit www.DonateLifeNC.org. 
   Currently, about 3,000 people in North Carolina are awaiting life-saving organ transplants. The Clemmons Rotary's Billboards on Wheels program is going to improve the lives of these people in need of an organ transplant in North Carolina. In fact, this brilliant marketing idea is beginning to garner some national attention from other rotary clubs that would like to replicate this program in States other than North Carolina. 
   The trend-setting people of the rotary club are model citizens who are working to make our world a healthier and more livable place. I hope that their good deeds inspire others to take up this great outreach idea and to help match donors with those in need. 
   Mr. Speaker, today, I also want to call special attention to the innovation and hard work of the students involved in West Wilkes High School's electric vehicle program. 
   Under the guidance and direction of Advisor Chris Tolbert, students in the West Wilkes electric vehicle program have completely rebuilt two vehicles--a Ford pickup and a Mazda Miata--into fully functional electric cars. This award-winning electric vehicle program is exactly the sort of program we need to help teach young people the skills and technology of the future. 
   I applaud Mr. Tolbert and the students at West Wilkes for their forward-thinking mindset. These students have custom-built electric cars, cars without gas engines, from the ground up. This is a herculean accomplishment with more than 3,000 hours of hard work going into the design and building of the Mazda Miata alone. 
   Fortunately, their hard work is paying dividends. Not only are they investing in a cleaner environment and in an economy that is less dependent on gas and oil, but they have brought home many awards and have captured national attention for their electric car innovations. 
   Just last month, they won multiple awards at the SMARTT Challenge competition in Raleigh. The SMARTT electric vehicle challenge, which draws hundreds of students from across the southeast, stands for Students Making Advancements in Renewable Transportation Technology. 
   The students and teachers at West Wilkes High School are on the cutting edge of hands-on instruction and learning, and I congratulate them for maintaining one of the best high school electric vehicle programs in the Nation. I hope they'll keep up the good work. 
   This leads me into my next comments, Mr. Speaker. The Democrats are inventing false arguments again. 
   ``Use it or lose it'' is already the law. 
   For Federal onshore competitive oil and gas leases, an oil company must have a producing well by 10 years. This comes from section 17(e) of the Mineral Leasing Act, (source: 30 U.S.C. 226(e)). Prior to 1992, the lease term was 5 years. The Energy Policy Act of 1992, under a Democrat House, modified it to 10 years. For Federal offshore oil and gas leases, an oil company must produce energy between 5 and 10 years. This is from the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. 
   So House Democrats do not even know what is existing law. What Democrats would have you believe is that a lease is a license to produce oil and gas. It is not. A lease is only the start of a process involving several steps the government requires an oil company to take before it may get permission to drill. 
   Democrats are effectively arguing that we should pull leases away from oil companies before they even receive permission to drill. That's like saying we should flunk a first grader on his first day of school because he has not yet taken his final exam. 
   Most of the drilling on Federal leases has been for natural gas. Natural gas  production was up, way up last year, and so was demand. In fact, the industry is producing more gas under these leases, but they cannot keep up with demand because Democrats and their radical environmental allies will not allow the leasing of new areas. Ninety-seven percent of Federal offshore areas are not leased. Ninety-four percent of Federal onshore areas are not leased. 
   Again, I say, Mr. Speaker, the Democrats are inventing false arguments to keep us from increasing our supply of energy in this country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HEROES EARNINGS ASSISTANCE AND RELIEF TAX ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I too am here to support H.R. 6081, the Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act, and I think that it is very, very important that we look for every way possible to give relief to our folks who are serving in the military. 
   I am pleased to say that 2 years ago, the President signed into law a bill that I call the HERO Act, which allowed folks who earned combat pay to use that pay to go into taking out an IRA. Again, the idea came from an average citizen who notified our office of a concern because his son had tried to invest his combat pay into an IRA, looking to prepare for his future. We were able to get that bill passed through the Ways and Means Committee 2 years ago, and that bill went through a similar experience that this bill is going through, having passed, then meeting problems in the Senate, then having to pass again. 
   But I think this bill contains so many elements that will advantage people who are willing to serve in the military, and as Chairman Rangel has said, these are the people who have kept us free from the beginning of this country, and I think that anything that we can do to help them, we need to do. 
   I also recommend that we do something to lower our gas prices, which will help their families who are staying here in this country while they may be overseas fighting for our freedom to deal with the rising cost of gas problems. I call on the Democrat majority to come up with their commonsense plan that they have said that they had to help us lower gas prices, not just for our military, but for all Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HOUSE REPUBLICANS OFFER SOLUTIONS TO LOWER GAS PRICES -- (House of Representatives - May 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, the Democrat leadership promised the American people a ``commonsense'' plan to lower gas prices, but House Democrats have not only failed to offer any meaningful solutions, they've put forward policies that will have precisely the opposite effect. 
   Since Democrats took control of Congress, gasoline prices have skyrocketed by more than $1 a gallon. In fact, the price of gas is at an all-time high of $3.80 a gallon today. This is the last thing middle class families need. Every dollar counts and families should not have to spend it on gasoline. 
   Middle class families need relief, not more broken promises from the Democrat majority. That's why Republicans will continue to stand up for average Americans and offer solutions to reduce our dependence on Middle Eastern oil, lower gas prices here at home, and invest in alternative forms of energy to create American jobs and grow our economy. 
   Energy prices are rising, cost of living expenses are rising, and the Democrat leadership is content with sitting on the sidelines and raising taxes and increasing spending. 
   House Republicans are committed to helping working Americans who are carrying the majority of the burden of the Democrats' failure to lead. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (OUR NATIONAL SECURITY -- (House of Representatives - September 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, this is a day to remember those who died in the attacks on American soil 7 years ago. Since that day, this Nation's security has been the highest priority on both sides of the aisle. We may not all agree, we may not often agree, but we do love this country, and we want to do everything we can to ensure its security. 
   I stand today because this occasion is a necessary time to think about the ways we get our energy. Energy is a huge part of our national security. Having domestic energy sources will help secure this Nation. 
   It's safe to say that no one in this Chamber thinks that relying on foreign oil is a good long-term strategy for this Nation. It's not good for our economy, and it's not good for our security. 
   I also think both sides generally agree that using alternative sources of energy are essential to our Nation's future. What we seem to disagree on is a matter of logistics. How quickly can we develop reliable cars that use other forms of energy besides oil? How can we make solar and wind power more available to power individual homes? The truth of the matter is, such solutions are not immediately available. 
   In the meantime, Americans still need to drive to work. They still need to buy groceries. They still need to heat their homes. We need to respond to the reality of our situation. While we continue to develop alternative energies, we need to increase our supply of the energy this Nation relies on. We have the resources. We have the technology to get them in an environmentally friendly way. Let's help out the American people who are looking to us for solutions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE CONSTITUTION CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - May 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I am a member of the Constitution Caucus, and we take it as an important responsibility  to come to the floor every week to talk about an issue related to the Constitution. 
   Tonight, we are here to talk about the Federal Government's role in education through the No Child Left Behind Act. But I question whether the premise of Federal involvement is even legitimate. 
   The tenth amendment to the Constitution that enumerates States' rights throws Federal involvement in education into question. 
   The tenth amendment tells us that the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people. 
   No Child Left Behind has a problem. The problem is that the individual States have learned that Federal Government involvement in local education is often uninformed, inefficient and unnecessarily burdensome. 
   What many Americans don't know or don't remember is that No Child Left Behind is simply a reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, a law first passed in 1965 and signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson. It has been revised and reauthorized so many times that it barely resembles the original law. 
   Today the law spawned by the repeated tinkering over four decades is increasingly complicated and burdensome. It attempts to tie Federal money to disparate yardsticks that may or may not make sense for the thousands of local school districts around the country. 
   How can one law effectively regulate both a rural school in North Carolina and an inner-city school in L.A.? I believe it cannot. Accountability needs be a State and local issue left to parents and teachers. It should not be delegated to Washington bureaucrats who don't even step inside the thousands of schools that are scrambling to comply with cookie-cutter regulations that often don't make sense on the local level. 
   According to the Congressional Research Service, the Elementary and Secondary Act of 1965 was primarily concerned with the relationship between poverty and low educational achievement. That is, indeed, a noble goal. But the law has since gone far afield. Now it infringes on States rights to oversee school systems and strays into unconstitutional areas. 
   Again, the 10th amendment to the Constitution says, ``The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved for the States respectively, or to the people.'' 
   The Constitution does not give the Federal Government the express right to dabble in local education. We need to give States back their full constitutional right to set education policy and encourage innovative solutions to the unique education issues faced by every State. 
   Tens of billions of Federal dollars cannot fix faulty schools. Broken schools need to be held accountable on the local level. By pushing accountability to the Federal level, we've produced a counterproductive system that is not responsive to the local needs of students, parents and teachers. 
   As we look towards the next reauthorization of this law, we must take States rights into account, lest we again fail the most important people in this equation, our Nation's children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - May 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank the gentleman for taking on the task of serving as chairman of our Immigration Caucus. I appreciate the leadership that you have given to it and I appreciate the comments that you and Congressman Carter have made tonight. I have several points I would like to make. 
   The members of our caucus know that I am very keen on the use of language, and that language makes a big difference. And we keep hearing over and over from the supporters of this Senate bill that this is not amnesty. But I think it is important that we define the word ``amnesty,'' so I looked it up under dictionary.com unabridged. 
   The first definition: a general pardon for offenses, especially political offenses against the government, often granted before any trial or conviction. 
   And then I like this one, another one from Online Etymology Dictionary: pardon of past offenses, intentional overlooking. 
   I think that is what we are talking about here. And, again, I think it is important that we define what we are talking about. That is exactly what the Senate is proposing. 
   Now, the other thing that I want to say is that I am really concerned with the way this bill has come out. It is being debated in pieces. It was written in secret, sprung on us late in the day, and it didn't go through a committee structure as most of our bills do. It was brought straight to the floor of the Senate. The leadership of the Senate, the Democratic leadership of the Senate wanted to cram it through before the Memorial Day holiday. 
   Those kinds of actions are not the actions of people who are proud of what they are doing. If they were proud of this bill, they would have brought that bill to a committee, they would have debated it, they would have heard the arguments pro and con, and then they would have come up with something that was discussed openly with lots and lots of people. That is the way, as Congressman Carter says, our Republic operates. We don't operate in secret. We don't do things like that. We don't cram bills through in a hurry, especially when they are so controversial. 
   You know, you mentioned, we want to talk a little bit about our districts. I live in, I think, the most beautiful area of the world, the Fifth District of North Carolina. I am very blessed to live there. And I live among, I think, the brightest, hardest-working people in the world. And they are very intelligent, very conscientious, very patriotic people. They are upset about this proposal. They don't like it. 
   Since I came to Congress a little over 2 years ago, I have been telling everybody who would listen, this is the biggest issue in my district, it is the biggest issue in most districts. And why? Because the American people, and again particularly the people in my district, have played by the rules and they understand the importance of the rule of law. 
   I tell folks over and over what makes this country so special are three things: the rule of law, our moral underpinnings, and our capitalistic way of life. But you can't have moral underpinnings and you can't have the capitalistic system if you don't have the rule of law. 
   Now, we can do something about illegal aliens who are here in our country. People say, oh, we can't do anything about them. We surely can. What we can do is start enforcing our laws. We have not been doing that. Both Democratic and Republican administrations are guilty of it. I can't forgive our Republican administrations because they are guilty of it, too. But we can close down our borders and we can enforce the laws as they are now. And I think that what we have to do is we have to look at this issue of illegal immigration in a very careful, law-respecting way. The solution doesn't lie in wholesale amnesty. 
   And the President has said that this bill will treat people with respect. Well, I respect the President, but I have to strongly disagree with him. Because from what I have seen so far, this bill fails to respect the millions of people who have worked within the system and have immigrated to our country legally. And those people who want to come to this country legally, they are doing it the right way. These people have done it the wrong way. We are not going to reward, we cannot reward illegal behavior by uttering platitudes about respect and fairness. Our first principle on immigration reform has to be upholding American laws. If we do not do that, then our system will be fundamentally flawed. 
   The bill that the Senate is proposing is going to legalize these people immediately. They talk about triggers being in there, but the triggers don't really go into effect. And the triggers are nothing but laws that we have already had in place for a long, long time. And if this bill passes and is signed by the President, we will be, I think, doing severe damage to our country, not just in the short run, because I think that it  will be both in the short run and in the long run. There will be a huge battle ahead of us if we pass this bill, because we are going to be facing more and more illegal immigration. 
   In addition, as I said before, the people of the Fifth District are very bright people. They know amnesty when they see it, and they know that if this bill or something even vaguely like it passes, it is going to dilute the meaning of citizenship in this country, and that is the last thing we want to do. We are the last best hope for freedom in this world; and if we don't enforce our laws and help people come here legally who want to come here, and deal with things on a case-by-case basis, we are simply going to destroy what it is that is wonderful about our country. 
   Congressman Bilbray mentioned that his mother was an immigrant but came here legally. My father's parents came from Italy in the early 1900s; my mother's ancestors came much earlier than that from Scotland. But the Ellis Island model was a very, very good model. People had to come here, prove that they were healthy, prove that they either had a job or had a sponsor for them to be here. 
   That worked wonderfully well in this country for a long, long time. And think that we have to have something akin to the Ellis Island experience again in this country, where we know that the people who are coming here are coming here because we need them here or they provide a benefit and they can be independent. They will not have to have public assistance. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - May 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I just want to ask one question. I think that you have touched on a very important point again, and that is that we here in the House of Representatives are the Representatives of the people. We are the people's House. And I think the Senate is completely out of touch with what the sentiment is in this country. 
   And I agree with you, the American people get it. The people of my district get it, and they are very, very bright. I think that we need to be listening to those people. And the House generally does listen to the people. 
   And I hope that they are going to send a very, very strong message to the Senators about how they feel about this, and turn this around in the Senate, because we need this bill to be killed in the Senate and not even come to the House of Representatives to be debated. But I know that we as Republicans are going to have some alternatives that we will be presenting in this House, and I hope that the majority party, which has made so many promises, none of which it has kept in this session of the Congress, will listen to the people and say, we are going to take up legislation that will do what needs to be done, which is protect our borders and provide for national security and give the people a true immigration reform.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE DEMOCRATS' FAILURE TO GOVERN -- (House of Representatives - May 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, does it not seem ironic that the week in which we are scheduled to vote on a lobbying and ethics reform bill, that I might add is largely a carbon copy of a Republican bill from last year, we are faced with the behavior of a high-ranking Member of the Democrat leadership who made a threatening comment to another Member? 
   What are the American people supposed to make of the failure of the majority to keep their promises? Instead of delivering real reform, the Democrats march in lockstep behind one of their own, despite this clear violation of House ethics rules. Not only has the majority failed to deliver on their agenda, they have shown they will tolerate behavior in their ranks which is antithetical to their so-called reform efforts. In so doing, they have forfeited their credibility. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SECRECY AND NEGLECT REPLACE EARMARK TRANSPARENCY -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to make a pledge to the American people. I pledge to fight secrecy in the Federal spending process. It seems that some Democratic lawmakers would like to keep earmarks in spending bills secret until August, months after the House votes on the bills that will contain the requests. 
   By air-dropping these earmarks in at the last minute, my Democratic colleagues are effectively cutting off debate on potentially wasteful or controversial items. 
   Instead of the transparency and accountability they promised, the Democrats' spending bills will essentially include a slush fund for billions of dollars in earmarks hidden from public scrutiny. I honestly can't believe it. These taxpayer-backed slush funds will fund earmarks without actually putting them into the bills before the House votes. 
   This is dangerous turf. Americans don't want more secrecy; they want less. As the Baltimore Sun wrote yesterday, the Democrats' new rules have ``made the process exponentially worse.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, we must restore accountability to the process lest the path to corruption is paved smooth by secrecy and neglect. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank my colleague for yielding. 
   Mr. Chairman, I want to respond to some of the comments that have been made on the other side. I share the concern that the gentlelady from New York said that this is an embarrassment. She is right. It is an embarrassment that we have to be doing this, but it's an embarrassment to the majority party, because there are principles involved here. 
   You promised things you are not fulfilling. That's why we are bringing these issues up, and we're going to continue to quote the things that are happening and remind you that that's the reason. 
   CNN.com today: ``Obey says that earmarks can still be scrutinized before the spending bills go into effect, but nonpartisan advocacy groups like Public Citizen says it's not enough.'' Craig Holman, legislative representative for Public Citizen: ``It violates the whole spirit of the reform itself. We really did expect that earmark requests were going to be an open book so that all of America could sit there and take a look at who's requesting what earmarks.'' 
   We're not saying we are opposed to the underlying bill and we're not doing this for delaying tactics. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The time of the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Whitfield) has expired. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I also point out that last year, when we debated this bill, the majority party offered 70 amendments to the bill and took over 2 legislative days. We have not even been in this for one legislative day yet, and we're getting complaints that we are utilizing delaying tactics. Let's not say what we should not be doing. 
   Last night, also, Mr. Obey said that professionals will look at these earmarks. We get complaints all the time that the staff runs this place. 
   I'm offended by that remark. This is a job for the Members of Congress to be doing. This is not a job for the staff to be doing. I consider we are professionals at this business, and we don't need to delegate the looking at earmarks to staff members. We need to be doing that ourselves, and we need to do it in this process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word. 
   It is clear that the gentleman from Georgia is new here because he has obviously not seen this process played out in the past, or seen his colleagues on his side take days and days and days to take care of appropriations bill and to throw problems in our way. 
   What he is saying is so disingenuous. This bill does not have to be approved until October 1. The budgets are out there for these agencies until October 1. This does not have to be done today; it doesn't have to be done tomorrow. There is plenty of time to do this. 
   But what the Democrats have allowed us to do is to expose their hypocrisy. They are giving us that opportunity. Now, we could stop all of this debate immediately, and we would be happy to do that. All they have to do is stop shrouding the earmarks in secrecy. They think that our wanting to expose their secret earmarks is trivial. My constituents in the Fifth Congressional District of North Carolina don't think that is trivial. 
   And my colleague here earlier who said that Republicans ask for earmarks, certainly Republicans ask for earmarks, and I think that is appropriate. I didn't ask for any earmarks in this bill. I don't know anybody who asked for earmarks in this bill, but people do. But he misses the whole point, as the Democrats do. They are now trying to turn this on us. They are in the majority. They can handle this problem easily. All they have to do is put out a list of the earmarks, and let everybody know what they are. 
   No, we have a chairman who wants to have those earmarks in secret until after the bills are passed and then vote on them. 
   Also, my colleague from New York talks about wasting time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just been dying to talk about this, and he has given me the perfect opportunity. The majority party said we are going to have people in Washington 5 days a week so you will work. Well, I work very hard when I'm in my district. I know they love to be in Washington, D.C., but let me tell you about waste of time. Let me tell you about some of the bills that have been brought to this floor for us to vote on. It goes on and on and on. There has been one substantive bill signed by the President in 6 months of this Congress. 
   But let me tell you some of the wonderful, exciting, necessary bills: Recognizing National Americorps Week; supporting the goals and ideals of National Public Works Week; honoring the contributions of the Rocky Mountain Senior Games on its 30th anniversary; in observance of National Physical Education and Sports Week; supporting the goals and ideals of Financial Literacy Month; honoring the 50th anniversary of the international geophysical year; expressing the support for National Foster Parents Day; honoring the life and accomplishments of Gian Carlo Menotti; recognizing the benefits and importance of school-based music education; recognizing the 45th anniversary of John Hershel Glenn's historic achievement; supporting the goals and ideals of National Community College Month. 
   That's why we come to Washington 5 days a week and that our colleagues think that our wanting to shed the light of day on these egregious earmarks is trivial? Folks, I want to tell you, the people in my district do not think it is trivial, but they think some of that stuff we have been voting on, and I could spend the next 5 days reading out the titles of these bills when we talk about waste of time. 
   But let me tell you, even their press, their friendly press, gets it; and I think the American public gets it. They want to change the topic and make it look like we are obstructing justice. We are shedding light on the problems. 
   CNN, again, not a bastion of conservativeness said: When Democrats took control of Congress, they promised lawmakers would go public with their requests for funding. They have not done so. 
   Earmarks should be scrutinized before spending bills go into effect. They are not doing that. 
   Obey's move for staff scrutiny comes at the expense of greater openness and examination by the public and other lawmakers. That is from AP. 
   This is from Roll Call: This year despite promises to run the most open and honest House ever, Democrats began by making sure that no challenges would be in order if Obey certified that a bill was free of earmarks. 
   It is over and over again. Even the press that normally supports them is saying they have made a mistake, they have overreached. We don't need more secrecy in this process. We want things out in the light of day. If I ask for a earmark, I better be proud of it and to have it published, and I am. But they don't want to do that. They want to keep it secret. And then they want to let the staff vet the earmarks, not even the Members. That is not the way to operate the House of Representatives. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word. 
   Mr. Chairman, I want to build on the comments by my colleague from Wisconsin, but I also want to talk a little bit about this amendment and the previous amendment. I tried to talk about it, but did not get recognized by the chairman, unfortunately. 
   Mr. Chairman, I am very much concerned about the need for us to restore fiscal discipline to this House. I have only been here a little over one term. I am in my second term. I came here with the notion that Republicans would be people who cared about fiscal discipline. We did not care about fiscal discipline as much as I would have liked for us to, but we made a start in the right direction, and I was pleased about that. 
   Now what we are trying to do is bring more fiscal discipline to this House and to spending. We do have a broken process. 
   I find it really interesting that the gentleman on other side of the aisle, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, is talking about our trying to shut this place down. I think that he has a very funny definition of this open process and this open rule and our being able to offer amendments. That  is the way I thought a democracy operated. 
   Saying that we are trying to ``shut the place down'' by doing our jobs is a little disingenuous, I think. I think that is coming because in the last 5 months you all have become so used to ramming things through with no opportunity for amendments that you find this a very unusual process. Well, we intend to use the opportunity available to us to offer amendments every chance we get. 
   He also made the comment that we are taking up the time of this body to do frivolous things. Well, again, this is the job that we are elected to do. We are not taking up the time of the body. We are doing what we are supposed to be doing. 
   You spent 3 months dealing with what we considered a frivolous exercise in talking about not funding our troops serving overseas, trying to protect us so we can do the very things that we are doing; and you didn't want to give them the money that they needed in order to be able to do that. That is where a lot of time was wasted, as far as I'm concerned. 
   I want to also talk about some comments that have been made by members of the other party that show that there were some people who made promises that have not been kept. 
   This quote is from 1-5-2007 from the gentleman from Alabama. ``Today, we made a strong commitment to returning fiscal responsibility to Congress. It is vital that Congress improves its stewardship of the taxpayers' money so we do not pass along today's spending tabs to our children and grandchildren.'' 
   That is a Democratic Member from Alabama. That is what we are talking about here today. We want to make cuts in this unnecessary spending so that we're not passing along these bills to our grandchildren and children. 
   From the chairman of this very subcommittee, ``This bill mandates that all grants and contract funds be awarded through full and open competitive processes, except when other funding distribution mechanisms are required by statute. This approach creates a level playing field and also ensures that there are no congressional or administration earmarks in the bill.'' 
   Well, that is very different from what we know is going to be happening on this bill, where these earmarks are going to be ``air dropped,'' as we say, later on, after the bill has already been passed, and people don't get a chance to react to those earmarks. 
   Another Member from Arizona: ``The American people deserve nothing less than a government that is fully accountable and completely transparent. They need to know that their elected Representatives are focused on the public interest, not the special interests and not the lobbyists' interests.'' 
   In the last amendment that was offered, we wanted to do more to increase what is happening in national security. No. You all prefer to spend a lot more money on bureaucracy. 
   I am very pleased that you are going to take this amendment offered by my colleague from Iowa. I think that is a step in the right direction. But we need to do a lot more of that. We need to cut funding here, and we need to make sure that you fulfill the promises that you made so strongly last fall and at the beginning of this session. 
   Let's make this earmark process transparent. Let's know what is going to be funded in these bills. Let's put it all out there. And let's have the open debate that you promised we would have. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word. 
   Mr. Chairman, I was just back in the cloakroom getting a little bit of the news of the outside world. And the outside world is focusing on what we are doing here. 
   There was a long segment on Fox News about the issue that we are discussing here today. And they actually  did a fairly good job of characterizing what is happening here. They talked about the fact that, as a result of a lot of discussion about the plans by the majority to take away our opportunities to have transparency in the earmark process, one person is going to be making those decisions as to whether or not the earmarks are right. We are not going to be able to vote on them. 
   They said, I think very correctly, that that is not what the American people were promised last year. And one of them, not known as a flaming conservative, I have to say, said what the American people wanted was maximum scrutiny and maximum sunshine on the process. 
   And I again want to bring some quotes to our discussion to remind people of some of the things that were promised. The Speaker of the House said last December, ``We will bring transparency and openness to the budget process and to the use of earmarks, and we will give the American people the leadership they deserve.'' 
   Well, I don't think the American people deserve what they are being given by the majority party. I call it the ``house of hypocrisy'' and an ``attitude of arrogance.'' The attitude of arrogance is so pervasive on the other side that it has become something that even the press is talking about. We don't normally get that kind of coverage on what is happening here in the kind of detail that they are coming out with, and I think it is good for the American people. 
   Another quote by the majority leader: ``We are going to adopt rules that make the system of legislation transparent so that we don't legislate in the dark of night ..... We need to have earmarks subject to more debate. That's what debate and public awareness is all about. Democracy works if people know what's going on.'' 
   Earlier this evening the chairman of the Appropriations Committee accused us of simply wanting to slow down the process by our bringing up amendments and raising the issues about what this bill does. And yet his own leader says, ``Democracy works if people know what's going on.'' 
   But the majority party wants to keep the people from knowing what's going on. They have an attitude of arrogance. They know best. The people don't know best. Our side of the aisle doesn't know best. Only one or two people know best in here. 
   Some other Members, some of the freshman Members actually, who were elected last year on the basis of openness in government and reform in government, the gentleman from New York: ``Mr. Chairman, we have a responsibility to the American people to spend their hard-earned tax dollars in a fiscally responsible way.'' 
   Some of my colleagues have just outlined the deficit problem that we have and how pretty soon almost all the Federal dollars are going to be spent on Medicare, Social Security, and Medicaid, with nothing left. We are spending ourselves into a terrible deficit situation. 
   Another freshman, this time from Florida: ``Congress will not reestablish its credibility and trust with the American people until accountability and oversight is established in Washington.'' A grammatical error there, but that is the quote. 
   That is what the American people want. That is what they were promised last fall. They are not getting it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, this amendment would reduce the Office of General Counsel in the Office of the Secretary and Executive Management account to the FY 2007 level representing a $1.241 million reduction from $14 million to $12,759,000. The bill's current funding level for this office represents a 10 percent increase over FY 2007, enacted. 
   There has been at least $105.5 billion in Federal spending over 5 years authorized by the House Democrat leadership this year. The current Federal debt is $8.8 trillion, roughly $29,000 for every U.S. citizen. 
   This is growing by over $1 billion a day. We know that because every day we walk down the halls of these buildings here, and we see the signs that the Blue Dogs have put out, which remind us what the current Federal debt is and how much it is for every single U.S. citizen. 
   Spending on the programs, Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, is out of control, and within a generation will force either significant cutbacks in services and benefits or massive tax increases. We know that is already happening because the Democratic majority has already recommended the largest tax increase in the history of this country through their budget they adopted earlier this year. 
   The Congressional Budget Office and the Government Accountability Office have been warning Congress that the growth in direct spending, for instance, spending that is on autopilot and outside the annual spending process, is occurring at an unsustainable rate due to well-known demographic trends and other factors. That spending, subject to the annual spending process, has also grown exponentially and must be brought under control. 
   This amendment is one step of many necessary steps enforcing fiscal discipline and sanity upon the Federal Government and out-of-control Federal deficit spending. We must restore fiscal discipline and find both commonsense and innovative new ways to do more with less. The Federal budget must not grow faster than American families' ability to pay for it. 
   We have been hearing a lot here tonight about fiscal responsibility and spending, taxes and deficits. There was a lot of talk about these things during the last election. I think there is a lot of confusion and misinformation out there right now, and I want to take a few minutes to give people a heads-up on what's going on. 
   This debate and all this talk need some context and some simple facts. Speaker Pelosi said on September 12, 2006, ``Democrats are committed to ending years of irresponsible budget policies that have produced historic deficits. Instead of piling trillions of dollars of debt onto our children and grandchildren, we will restore pay-as-you-go budget discipline.'' 
   If you want to know exactly what's not going to happen to the Federal budget under this Congress, listen to that statement. PAYGO will not touch a cent of the trillions of dollars with which we have saddled our children and grandchildren. Furthermore, new spending will be proposed and taxes raised to pay for it. 
   That's what we are seeing here, and that's what this debate is all about. The plan is to spend more than ever, repeal tax relief and allow the trillions of dollars of unfunded liabilities to go on unreformed, all under the veneer of fiscal responsibility called PAYGO. 
   I am down here now because I want people to know this, and to know what it means. I want to put this debate in context. 
   This bill and the others we will debate in the coming weeks mean that the Federal Government is going to cost you more. You are going to pay more than you ever have before in taxes. I think we need to talk about that. 
   People can deny it and spin it any way they want, but the cost of the Federal Government is going to increase under the current fiscal plan. This is in spite of the fact that Americans already pay a staggering amount of money, but Democrats want more. They always do and they always will, even though the average American worked about 125.6 days in 2005 to pay for Federal, State and local spending. 
   Guess where the largest part of it went. To the politicians right here in Washington. In 2005, the average American worked about 83 days to pay for Federal spending. Guess what, it's not enough. These numbers are set to increase as far as the eye can see. 
   Now, let's just put Federal spending into context. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Let's just put Federal spending into context. Do you know that the United States Federal Government is on track to spend more money next year than Germany's entire economy in 2005? Germany is and has been the third largest economy in the world. 
   There are only two countries in the world with entire economies larger than the U.S. Government budget, the United States itself and Japan. Do you know that next fiscal year, the fiscal year we are considering now, the U.S. Government is on track to spend $700 billion more, $700 billion more. That's more than the entire Chinese economy in 2005. 
   We are on a spending spree that needs to stop. It's called a tax-and-spend policy. That's the model. It hasn't changed. 
   So I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this amendment and make a very small dent in this unsustainable fiscal policy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I want to say that I thank my colleagues for coming and supporting my amendment tonight. I thank them for the points that they are bringing up. 
   The gentleman from Tennessee is doing an excellent job in his first year here in the Congress. 
   I also want to thank my colleague from California who made a really excellent point that is something that needs to be made over and over again. When we try to cut back additional spending, it is always a cut, not raising money. Not raising spending is a cut to Democrats. And I think that's a point that needs to be made over and over again. Not increasing spending is a cut. That's not the way the general public sees it. 
   I also want to point out the fact that we are working very hard to bring us to the point where we could have a balanced budget. 
   Americans do have to live with a balanced budget. Individual Americans have to. They have to live with the money they have now. But Congress doesn't do that. And this Congress particularly is looking for every way it possibly can to spend additional money and to tax the American public, which is certainly taxed enough. 
   This seems like, to the majority party, that this, again, is a cut. But  Everett Dirksen, one of my heroes, said, a million here and million there, and pretty soon you're talking about real money. That was during the time when they were not billions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate my colleague from Ohio's yielding to me, and I appreciate the comments that he made. 
   I want to also echo how much I appreciate our colleague from Indiana, who has been in the House for several years and came through a time when the Democrats were in the majority. And as he points out, they were in the majority for 40 years, and they did spend this country almost into a situation where we could not get ourselves out of it. And I appreciate his bringing that up again. We need to do it over and over and over again, reminding the American people what they did. 
   I, frankly, thought that when they took the majority this time that they would act differently as they had promised in the election. But we now have what we know is a house of hypocrisy because they promised a lot to the American people and they have not fulfilled those promises. 
   I have been particularly disappointed in the Blue Dogs. As somebody has said, there are these charts all over our office buildings, and they tell us over and over and over that the current Federal debt is $8.8 trillion, roughly $29,000 for every United States citizen, and growing by $1 billion a day. But where are those Blue Dogs when we need them? Where are they, calling for fiscal restraint? They are going right along with their leadership, going ahead and increasing the deficit every day and doing all that they can to increase the deficit. I would like to know where they are and why they aren't being responsible, as they promised they would be. 
   And I want to give us another quote to tie into what my colleagues have been saying. This is from Speaker Pelosi in a floor speech she made on January 7: ``After years of historic deficits, this new Congress will commit itself to a higher standard: pay as you go, no new deficit spending. Our new America will provide unlimited opportunity for future generations, not burden them with mountains of debt.'' 
   And yet, as has been pointed out over and over and over again, there has been at least $105.5 billion in new Federal spending over 5 years that has been authorized by the House Democrat leadership this year. That doesn't sound to me like we are committed to a higher standard of ``pay as you go, no new deficit spending.'' 
   I am also concerned about what this is doing to the American public and how cynical it is making the people. They can't count on the Democrats to do what they said they were going to do. 
   We have also heard tonight that we are trying to slow down the process, and I checked about that in terms of what happened last year on this bill. It took 2 full legislative days to debate this bill last year during this process, and the Democrats offered over 70 amendments to that bill. I find it really ironic that the chairman of the Appropriations Committee now says to us, as the Republicans, that we are trying to slow down the process when we are exercising our responsibility as American citizens to try to slow down this incredible spending that the Democrats want to do, increase the deficit, increase taxes. They are saying to us, you are trying to slow down the process. 
   They wanted this week to do four complete appropriations bills. They frittered away their time for 3 months, blamed it on the minority, saying they are not in control of what is going on here. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, there's been a lot said tonight by the chairman of the Appropriations Committee about how the numbers of earmarks have gone up over the years, or went up over the years that Republicans were in charge. But nary a word has been said about the fact that the Democrats were getting a large proportion of those earmarks. So I think we ought to talk a little bit about the fact that Democrats were getting some of those evil earmarks that they campaigned so hard against last year. 
   For example, actually, in 1996, the first year that Republicans were in charge and did the budget, the number of earmarks actually went down. The last year that the Democrats did their budget, the earmarks were 1,439. The first year that Republicans were in charge, the earmarks went down to 958. Of the 958, the Democrats had 40 percent, 383. 
   Now, it is true that the number of earmarks went up over the years. In 1997 they went to 1,596. Democrats had 638 of those earmarks. 
   In 2005 the number did go up to 13,996, and Democrats had 5,599 of those. So if they were so evil in those days, it's hard to understand how you could have been claiming such a large proportion of them. 
   Obviously you all missed the point in the debate about these earmarks. Many Republicans believe in earmarks. We think that it is the right of the Congress to appropriate money to certain projects. That's not the issue. 
   The issue is you campaigned on transparency and changing the system. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2638, DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate my distinguished colleague yielding me this time. 
   Sitting here listening, I am puzzled by some of the things being said. First of all, we are having folks thank the majority party for having them give us an open rule. I find it very unusual that we would have to thank somebody for doing what is right. You ought to thank somebody when they do something that is above and beyond what is the right thing to do. 
   I also find it very difficult to understand how the appropriations chairman can say that they have had to deal with the Iraq problem for 3 months; and therefore, they have not had time to do their work. 
   Who is in charge here? You all are in charge. You should have been able to do your work. You let yourself get bogged down for 3 months on something that was totally useless, and here you are blaming the minority party. I find it unbelievable that you don't accept the fact that you are in charge of things. What is the ``existing Republican process''? You all are in charge. You can't blame us. 
   I want to quote from the Rules Committee chairman on 1-4-07, ``Our rules package requires full disclosure of earmarks in all bills and conference reports before Members are asked to vote on them,'' not 30 days afterwards, but before. 
   Where are those earmarks, Madam Chairman? I don't see them in here. 
   The American people were promised transparency, truthfulness, openness in this process. They were sold a bill of goods. They don't want more secrecy, they want less secrecy. The Democrats said, We will have a new day. This is much worse than anything we have ever seen before. We need to restore the earmark rule like the Republicans had it last year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, the Democrats campaigned on transparency, and I will give you a quote again from Speaker of the House. ``We will bring transparency and openness to the budget process and to the use of earmarks, and we will give the American people the leadership they deserve.'' 
   Majority leader: ``We are going to adopt rules that make the system of legislation transparent so that we don't legislate in the dark of the night.'' And I think we're in the dark of the night right now. 
   We need to have earmarks subject to more debate. That's what debate and public awareness is all about. Democracy works if people know what's going on. 
   Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman DAVID PRICE, the bill we're debating tonight: ``This bill mandates that all grant and contract funds be awarded through full and open competitive processes, except when other funding distribution mechanisms are required by statute.''     
   ``This approach creates a level playing field and also ensures that there are no congressional or administration earmarks in the bill.'' 
   Again, we don't know what is here. 
   The Rules Committee chairwoman: ``Our rules package requires full disclosure of earmarks in all bills and conference reports before Members are asked to vote on them,'' House floor remarks, January 4, 2007. 
   Folks, there is some hypocrisy going on here, and that is what we are calling you on. You promised a different process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (FEDERAL FOOD DONATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today to take up S. 2420, the Federal Food Donation Act. The House version of this legislation, H.R. 4220, was introduced by Representative Jo Ann Emerson and was passed by the House last December. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., POST OFFICE -- (House of Representatives - June 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my strong support of this bill designating the post office located at 630 Northeast Killingsworth Avenue in Portland, Oregon as the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Post Office. 
   Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. is one of the most important public figures of our times. His leadership during the civil rights movement helped to make America the country it is today, a country that strives for equality, justice and liberty for all its citizens. Dr. King is an American icon and, as such, deserves this honor and recognition. 
   Dr. King, a southern Baptist minister, was instrumental in leading the civil rights movement during the 1950s and 60s. After his march on Washington in 1963, Dr. King's memorable and often quoted I Have a Dream speech established him as one of the greatest public speakers of his time. 
   In over 2,500 speeches over the course of his career Dr. King cried out against segregation and other forms of racial inequity, bringing discrimination to the forefront of people's minds and making civil rights a primary concern. 
   His ceaseless efforts to end racial discrimination and segregation through nonviolent means earned him a Nobel Peace Prize in 1964, making him the youngest recipient in history. He has also been honored with a Presidential Medal of Freedom and a Congressional Gold Medal. In 1983 Congress established a national holiday as a tribute to his memory. 
   Widely recognized as one of the most pivotal figures in the battle to end bigotry and discrimination on the basis of race, Dr. King led the Montgomery Bus Boycott in 1955, helped to found the Southern Christian Leadership Conference in 1957, and was instrumental in orchestrating the famous Birmingham, Alabama protests. 
   Towards the end of his life, Dr. King expanded his message to apply to impoverished Americans. The Poor People's Campaign focused on the economic injustice and tried to reach out to poor people of all races and cultures. Dr. King dedicated his life to ensuring the principles this country holds so dear, those of liberty and justice for all citizens. 
   I thank my respected colleague, EARL BLUMENAUER, for introducing this legislation, and reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE DIVERSITY ASSURANCE ACT -- (House of Representatives - June 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on H.R. 3774, the Senior Executive Service Diversity Assurance Act. 
   In April of this year, the Department of Justice wrote to the committee raising a number of constitutional concerns with the introduced version of this legislation. While a number of changes were made to address these concerns during committee consideration of the legislation, some remained concerned that the legislation could still be vulnerable to constitutional challenges. For example, making demographic information about these senior executive service candidates and incumbents available for hiring purposes could suggest that this information should be taken into account in the selection process. 
   But I stand before you today to raise a concern much bigger than the state of our Federal workforce. I stand before you today to bring your attention to the woeful lack of attention that has been given this Congress to the skyrocketing gas prices throughout this Nation. 
   Throughout the country, for the first time in our history, a gallon of gas at local gas stations averages more than $4, and there appears to be no relief in sight for working class Americans. 
   House Republicans have introduced a comprehensive plan to lower gas prices and preserve energy independence. The Republican plan would increase the production of American-made energy in an environmentally safe way. It would promote new, clean, and reliable energy sources. It would cut red tape and increase the supply of American-made fuel and energy. And it would encourage greater efficiency by offering conservation tax incentives. 
   The Democrats, however, have no such plan to help American families and small businesses deal with their increasing pain at the pump. 
   At a time when our country is facing a serious crisis in energy prices, with all due respect to my colleague from Illinois, my assumption is that most Americans would prefer that we focus on solving America's energy woes, rather than spending valuable floor time debating the creation of various offices within the Office of Personnel Management. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CHI MUI POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - June 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5477, legislation to name the post office in San Gabriel, California, in honor of Chi Mui. 
   Today, we honor Chi Mui who passed away from cancer on April 27, 2006. His accomplishment in serving the citizens of San Gabriel, California, as the first Asian and Chinese American council member and mayor of San Gabriel was a testament to his lasting dedication and friendship to the community. 
   The modest beginning of Chi Mui's life did not forecast the dramatic and incredible impact he would have on the people of Los Angeles. Born in China on October 26, 1952, Mayor Mui was the son of a seamstress and a cook. At the age of 10, he moved with his family out of his home in China and into New York City where he quickly learned to speak English. In 1980, Mayor Mui graduated cum laude with a degree in civil engineering from Polytechnic University of New York and subsequently moved to southern California. 
   Before being elected to the San Gabriel City Council in 2003, Mayor Mui wasted no time in devoting his efforts to his new community. He was instrumental in developing 600 units of affordable and senior housing in Los Angeles's Chinatown and spent his time teaching citizenship classes in order to help hundreds of fellow immigrants achieve citizenship in their new home. 
   A passion for open space, Mayor Mui led the efforts to obtain the space and the $35 million necessary to build the first urban state park in downtown Los Angeles. Mayor Mui was also a devoted athlete and cofounded the Los Angeles Chinatown Athletic Association Volleyball Club where he worked as a coach teaching and reinforcing life lessons that continue well beyond volleyball. 
   In a city where one in two residents is Asian, Mayor Mui played a role as liaison between the city government and the Asian community. As a city council member, he led the efforts to open the county public library in San Gabriel on Saturdays to provide greater access to residents without increasing cost. 
   His tireless work for the Asian community was recognized when he was twice elected President of the Los Angeles Chinese American Citizens Alliance. 
   Recognizing his ability and devotion to San Gabriel in the Asian community, the council appointed him vice-mayor in 2005. In 2006, it elevated him to the position of mayor, an invaluable step that linked the members of the Asian community. 
   With gratitude to his service to the San Gabriel community, I ask all Members to join me in supporting H.R. 5477. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (TELEWORK IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on H.R. 4106, the Telework Improvements Act of 2008. This legislation is designed to encourage more Federal employees to participate in telework programs. This legislation moved through committee, and I understand Chairman Waxman worked with Ranking Member Tom Davis to make several improvements to this legislation. 
   Getting serious about promoting telework is a major step in the right direction, but telework only indirectly addresses the problem of soaring gas prices. Mr. Speaker, gas prices have gone up $1.63 since Democrats took control of this House last January, and as far as anybody knows, Democrats still have no plan to address this problem. 
   The Republicans, on the other hand, stand ready to address the problem with a blueprint that promotes alternative and renewable fuels, harnesses technologies already being employed successfully by many of our global competitors, and encourages responsible oil and gas exploration designed to unlock America's natural energy resources and end our dependence on foreign fuel imports. 
   I remain concerned that none of the bills being considered today do anything to address the pain at the pump currently facing our Nation. 
   American families and small businesses are begging Congress to throw them a life preserver amid today's soaring gas prices, but no relief is in sight. No wonder Americans believe Washington is broken. 
   Most Americans believe it is past time to start addressing the real problems facing American families. I note with some disappointment that not a single piece of legislation to help lower gas prices is on the House schedule this week. 
   I reserve the balance of my time.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (TELEWORK IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, while this legislation will give a break from high gas prices to some Federal employees, the vast majority of Americans have to use their cars to go to work and to other activities and are paying an average of $4 a gallon, the highest prices in history, while the Democratically controlled Congress does nothing to help those hardworking Americans who struggle to do the right thing every day, but are receiving no assistance from the Democrat majority here. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (FEDERAL AGENCY DATA PROTECTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - June 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on H.R. 4791, the Federal Agency Data Protection Act. While we appreciate the majority's willingness to incorporate several suggestions from our side such as including language from H.R. 2124, Representative Tom Davis' Federal Agency Data Breach Protection Act, we remain concerned that this legislation misses some key opportunities to advance legislation which truly strengthens our Federal information security laws. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on a much more pressing issue, an issue of great concern to all Americans. 
   With gas prices soaring to $3.98 per gallon over the weekend, according to AAA, the House returned officially from Memorial Day break today, but believe it or not, not a single piece of legislation to help lower gas prices is on the House schedule this week. This is particularly amazing since then Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi promised the American people ``a commonsense plan'' to lower gas prices way back in April, 2006. And it's particularly troubling since House Republicans unveiled a comprehensive plan to lower gas prices 2 weeks ago and has promoted that plan across the country during last week's Memorial Day recess. 
   Instead of delivering on their April, 2006, promise, however, the Democrats in charge of Congress have delivered only a staggering $1.65 Pelosi premium, meaning consumers are forced to pay $1.65 more per gallon of gasoline compared to what they paid on January 4, 2007, the Democrats' first day in the majority. 
   For an average family that fills up its two cars once a week, that's an astronomical 2,574 more dollars per year that they are forced to pay at the pump. That's $2,574 less that families have for their children's educational expenses; $2,574 less for family vacations this summer; and $2,574 less for food costs, which also are skyrocketing. 
   No wonder Democrats are continuing to feel the heat for doing nothing, nothing, to address the rising cost of gasoline. 
   Let me quote part of a column in Monday's New Hampshire Union Leader about what Congress has done to contribute to American families' and small businesses' pain at the pump: 
   ``Congress has prevented the drilling in the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge, which could be providing 1 million gallons of oil per day. Congress has put 85 percent of the U.S. coastal areas off-limits for drilling. Congress has recently prohibited the processing of oil shale, which could provide substantial quantities of oil economically ..... 
   ``To sum it up, Congress has done nothing to help but lots to increase on our dependence on foreign oil and increase the price Americans pay for oil and gas.'' 
   An op-ed published over the weekend in the Athens, Georgia, Banner-Herald makes the case that the Democratic Congress has contributed to the recent surge in gas prices: 
   ``Drilling is prohibited in the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge, a potential source of 1 million barrels a day, 5 percent of America's daily oil consumption. Also off-limits is 85 percent of America's coastline. 
   ``Americans deserve to know the story, in all its gory details, of what their government has done and is doing to cause high prices at the pump and to make gasoline, indeed, all energy, more scarce and more expensive in the future.'' 
   Indeed, while Democrats have offered nothing more than broken promises and policies that drive up gas prices, House Republicans have unveiled a comprehensive plan for lower gas prices and energy independence. The GOP blueprint promotes alternative and renewable fuels, harnesses technologies already being employed successfully by our global competitors, and unlocks America's natural energy resources through the responsible exploration of oil and gas in the United States, a reform backed by the majority of Americans, according to a new Gallup Poll. How much longer will Democrats ignore the will of the American people by keeping the House Republicans' plan off the House floor? 
   Another quote from the Charleston, West Virginia, Daily Mail: ``Doing Nothing is What Democrats in Congress Have Specialized in, and That's One of the Reasons Gasoline Costs $4 Per Gallon.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, we can stand here and deal with a lot of issues that we're dealing with this week, but we need to get to the issues that the American people want us to deal with, and that's the soaring price of gasoline and energy costs. 
   Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time, and I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORTING NATIONAL MEN'S HEALTH WEEK -- (House of Representatives - June 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise today in support of this resolution promoting National Men's Health Week. Across this Nation, men are reminded daily about the benefits of living a healthy life. Whether through exercise, a balanced diet, or regular visits to the doctor, these simple steps can lead to longer, more vibrant lives. Sadly, many men still neglect the basic preventative measures and often fail to realize the ripple effect their declining health can have on those around them. 
   It is no secret that men have a shorter lifespan than women. Of the 10 leading causes of death in this country, men lead women in all 10. Yes, some of this can be attributed to lifestyle differences. Men are prone to engage in heavier drinking, smoking, and risky behaviors. But the sad reality is that men all too often neglect to seek out the medical help they need. Studies have shown that men are significantly less likely to visit the doctor than women are. 
   Congress and the President established National Men's Health Awareness Week in May 1994. They chose the week leading up to Father's Day, when our focus on the male figures in our life is greatest, to bring national attention to the critical health issues facing men and to highlight the preventative measures that are necessary and available. 
   Early detection is vital, and in many cases, increases chances for survival. Men's Health Awareness Week helps bring this information to light and highlights the proactive steps that men can take to improve their chances for a long, healthy life. The benefits of a more proactive approach to men's health extends not only to the individual, but to their families, friends, society, and the Nation. 
   Better long-term health means fewer medical expenses for families, taxpayers, and employers. When women outlive their spouses, often by more than half a decade, they face the financial, emotional, and physical burden of living out their remaining years in solitude. This can ultimately place undue stress on a family or taxpayers. 
   Men's Health Awareness Week helps broaden our understanding of the serious health risks facing men and the simple steps we can all take to help mitigate their effects. So I urge my colleagues not only to support this resolution, but to honor its message. If you're a man, go to the doctor. If you're a woman, encourage your husband, brother, son, and friends to do so. Take a walk, go for a jog, or eat a piece of fruit. After all, we all know that an apple a day keeps the doctor away. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HOW TO BRING DOWN THE COST OF GAS -- (House of Representatives - June 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, today gas prices are hovering around $4 a gallon, and good legislation that would help ease the pain at the pump languishes due to congressional inaction. Washington is just not working for average taxpayers in North Carolina. 
   Recently, I've seen some good ideas to deal with high gas prices, but we can't seem to get them brought to the floor for a vote. 
   For example, I'm a cosponsor of Mr. Young's American Energy Independence and Price Reduction Act, which addresses both sides of this issue. It would tap domestic oil in an environmentally sensitive way and then use the tens of billions of dollars of Federal revenue to invest in 18 different existing alternative energy programs, from wind energy to water energy, all without raising taxes. 
   How high will the Pelosi premium have to get before we vote on commonsense legislation like this? This bill proves that we can bring down the price of gas while investing in the energy of the future without raising taxes on America's working families. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (RECOGNIZING THE STATE OF MINNESOTA'S 150TH ANNIVERSARY. -- (House of Representatives - June 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, this resolution seeks to commemorate the 150th anniversary of Minnesota becoming a State. In February of 1857, Congress passed an enabling act that defined the State boundaries and authorized the establishment of a State government for the people of Minnesota. Among other things, it called for a convention to establish a State constitution. As is normal in a democracy, the Democrats and Republicans could not come to a final agreement on language, which resulted in the drafting of two distinct constitutions. 
   Ultimately, a conference committee of five members from each party was formed in order to work out the differences and create one constitution both sides could agree to. This happened in August of 1857. Although neither party agreed to sign along with members of the other party, a consensus on the language was agreed upon and two copies were made and signed. Minnesota's State constitution was born. 
   A few months later, on May 11, 1858, President James Buchanan signed legislation granting statehood to Minnesota, making it the 32nd State in the Union. Until that point, Minnesota held the status of a territory for more than 9 years. Henry Hastings Sibley, the State's first Governor, famously uttered Minnesota is finally free ``from the trammels of territorial vassalage.'' 
   On this occasion of the sesquicentennial, it is important that we recognize all that Minnesota has to offer. It is truly a time of celebration for the 5 million-plus residents of Minnesota, and there is a lot to celebrate. Its geography and terrain are among the most precious and beautiful our Nation has to offer. It is home to the headwaters of the mighty Mississippi River, which has been so crucial to the development of the economic viability of our Nation. 
   Minnesota is a land rich in natural resources and remains among the leaders in agriculture and iron production. Minnesota's farming industry feeds and nourishes many of our Nation's citizens today. Minnesotans are known to be a people with a sense of pride in their history and tradition. Many Minnesotans have had profound impact on the lives of people all across our Nation.     
   For instance, the founders of the world-renowned Mayo Clinic, Dr. William Mayo and his two sons, William and Charles, began their practice in Minnesota. 
   Minnesota is also the birthplace of one of America's greatest literary figures and favorite authors, F. Scott Fitzgerald. His literary works have reached millions and continue to have a great impact on our youth. Fitzgerald's ``The Great Gatsby'' is regarded as one of the great American novels. 
   In conclusion, the State of Minnesota is one that is rich in nature, resources, and, most importantly, in people and heritage. For this reason, I ask my colleagues to support H. Res. 923, recognizing the State of Minnesota's 150th anniversary. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF THE ARBOR DAY FOUNDATION AND NATIONAL ARBOR DAY -- (House of Representatives - June 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this resolution honoring the goals and ideals of the Arbor Day Foundation and National Arbor Day. 
   Trees--They provide us with shelter and warmth. They clean the air we breathe. Their majesty inspires awe and alters landscapes. Mankind owes its livelihood to these miracles of nature, yet it is so easy to overlook their importance and beauty. 
   These traits were not lost to J. Sterling Morton, a pioneer who moved from Detroit to the unforgiving, treeless plains of the Nebraska Territory in 1854. A journalist and avid lover of nature, Morton used his position as editor of Nebraska's first newspaper to spread agricultural information and his enthusiasm for trees. 
   His words did not fall on deaf ears. Fellow pioneers soon realized how valuable trees were to their survival, not only for fuel and building materials, but for the stability of the soil and shade from the arid sun. 
   Once appointed as the secretary of the Nebraska Territory, on January 4, 1872 Morton first proposed a tree-planting holiday called ``Arbor Day.'' That same year, on April 10, citizens across Nebraska planted over one million trees. 
   The first official Arbor Day was held on April 10, 1874 and by 1885 it became a legal holiday in Nebraska to be celebrated on April 22, J. Sterling Morton's birthday. Throughout the 1870's the appeal spread across the nation and it was not long before Arbor Day was celebrated in each state of the United. States. 
   Today, Arbor Day is observed not only throughout this great nation, but across the globe. While most states observe Arbor Day on the last Friday in April, celebrations have evolved to correspond with varying ideal planting weather. 
   In response to growing national and international popularity, the Arbor Day Foundation was founded in 1972 to ``inspire people to plant, nurture, and celebrate trees.'' The Arbor Day Foundation fuels their mission through the Arbor Day Farm, promoting and coordinating events, working with government and corporate entities, and distributing over' 10 million trees annually. 
   What began as a local holiday born of one man's enthusiasm has flourished into a global celebration. From Florida to Oregon and Cambodia to Venezuela, people gather to honor the ideals of Arbor Day. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this resolution and cherish its goal, captured convincingly in the words of its founder, J. Sterling Morton--``the cultivation of trees is the cultivation of the good, the beautiful, and the ennobling in man.''  
   Mr. Davis of Illinois. I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Chairman, I appreciate very much the recognition. 
   Madam Chairman, I think that the American people are probably getting a pretty good lesson on the effectiveness, or lack of effectiveness, of this Congress right now. Unfortunately for the institution, the lesson is driving home the poll numbers that show how little regard the American people have for the majority party right now. It is important that we have the opportunity to debate every one of these bills and that we have the opportunity to debate the amendments that are here. 
   I rise in support of the amendment that my colleague from North Carolina has offered. I think, again, that it is important that we do that. It is also important that we have the ability to tie the amendments that are being offered to this agriculture bill to other issues. The majority party may not want to do that. However, it is very important that we do that, because these appropriations bills are all tied together. 
   Last year, there was a great hue and cry from the majority party about how much money was being spent by the Republicans, what profligate spenders we were. Now that the Democrats are proposing spending all this money, it is negligible. $10 million is negligible. $5 million is negligible. It is insignificant. All kinds of words like that are being used. 
   When we try to point out the connection between what is happening in this bill and with the amendments that we are offering to things like the SCHIP bill, then the majority party doesn't want us to do that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Chairman, I thank my colleague for seeking the clarification of this. I have been very confused about the majority party not wanting us to talk about the entire budget. This is one piece of an entire budget that this House is going to pass. I don't see how you can possibly say there is no nexus. 
   Every spending bill in this Chamber is connected to every other spending bill, so how can you possibly say that they are not the same? You passed this huge budget with the largest tax increase in the history of this country. The budget sets the spending. I cannot understand why we can't talk about the budget and every other spending bill that we are going to deal with in conjunction with this spending bill, because they are all tied together. 
   I would also like to point out to you that I guess while you are trying to speed us along you are raising all these points of order, which is simply slowing down the process. I find that somewhat amusing, too, as we are trying to move the process along. 
   But it is important that we talk about our rural districts and what the SCHIP program would do to seniors. I have seniors who are going be hurt by this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Well, I will say again that we passed one budget in this House that includes the money for all the spending bills. If there is one budget, then it would seem to me that all of the spending bills are tied to each other. Therefore, any spending bill has a connection to every other spending bill. So there is a nexus there, and talking about what is going to happen or what is being proposed in one spending bill is relevant to every other spending bill. I simply don't see how you can separate them.  
   It is going to be especially clear to the American people that that is the case when an omnibus spending bill is brought here this fall and we are asked to vote for, again, the largest tax increase in the history of this country within the confines of a very, very large spending bill. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The gentlewoman's time has expired. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEMOCRATS' BROKEN PROMISES -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, last year, Democrats promised the most bipartisan Congress ever in the history of our Congress. What we have seen so far is about as far from that as I could imagine. Not only have the rules been broken in terms of bills being rammed through, not going through regular order so that there can be debate and discussions, but even when there are bills that all Members can support, albeit that they are not as strong as we would like, they are mischaracterized. 
   Over the weekend, I read most of the debate that went on last week about H.R. 476 dealing with ethics reform in the Congressional Record: ``Please take note. The Democratic leadership of this institution plans to clean up the criminal and ethical morass it inherited. This bill is a down payment on the new ethical climate control system we are building. 
   ``The American people deserve to know that criminal unethical behavior by any of our colleagues will be punished and that the penalties for violating the sacred trust which has been bestowed upon us by our voters and the States we represent will be substantive, serious and not window dressing.'' 
   Well, ladies and gentlemen, we passed a bill tougher than the bill that was passed last week in the last Congress, and we don't need to keep making these kinds of comments if we want a bipartisan relationship. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (IT IS INAPPROPRIATE TO TURN OVER OUR ECONOMIC SYSTEM TO THE GOVERNMENT -- (House of Representatives - September 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I feel certain that some of my colleagues have already broached the issue of the topic that has been consuming us around here for the last 4 days, and that has been the topic that is most being discussed on the news and I think by many Americans. I know that in speaking to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, that we have all received many, many telephone calls about the issue of our economy. And again it is very much on our minds and it is the thing that is pretty much dominating everyone's thinking. 
   I came tonight because last night I talked a little bit about the situation that we have and my concern about the blame game. Ever since there was the announcement that we have a problem with our economy that the President and Secretary of Treasury have announced that we need to do something drastic about our economy, there have been a lot of people pointing fingers. We've heard a lot, particularly from the Democrats, saying that this is a Republican problem, you deal with it. But as we see more and more in the news and more and more in documents, we learn that Republicans and even nonpartisan people such as Alan Greenspan when he was chairman of the Federal Reserve warned that something needed to be done about this situation or we were going to very much be in the situation that we find ourselves in and that the root of this problem was the problem with the two agencies called Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These are agencies that were set up many years ago to deal with helping people who were low-income people or disadvantaged people or minorities get low-income loans and be able to buy homes. 
   We've learned again a great deal about the fact that there was insufficient oversight of those two agencies, and that when Republicans raised the issue of better oversight, more effective oversight, they were often blocked. There was an article in Friday's Washington Post by Al Hubbard and Noam Neusner entitled ``Where Was Senator Dodd?'' And the subheadlines, ``Playing the Blame Game on Fannie and Freddie.'' I would like to submit the entire article. I'm not going to read it all. 
   Madam Speaker, let me just read a bit of it. ``Taxpayers face a tab of as much as $200 billion for a government takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the formerly semi-autonomous mortgage finance clearinghouses. And Senator Christopher Dodd, the Democratic chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, has the gall to ask in a Bloomberg Television interview, ``I have a lot of questions about where was the administration over the last 8 years. 
   ``We will save the senator some trouble. Here is what we saw firsthand at the White House from late 2002 to 2007: Starting in 2002, White House and Treasury Department economic policy staffers, with support from then-Chief of Staff Andy Card, began to press for meaningful reforms of Fannie, Freddie and other government-sponsored enterprises.'' 
   And then it goes on to talk about it. And it chronicles all of the problems that were put up to the administration when they brought these issues up. There are many, many other articles that are out, as I said, talking about this. 
   Now, I am not one who is in favor of the plan that was brought to us by Secretary Paulson at the beginning of this week. Many of us here really believe in this country, and we believe in the principles that undergird this country. They are the rule of law, our Judeo-Christian heritage and capitalism. Those are the things that have made our country great. And it is not appropriate to turn over our economic system to the government.  
   Where Was Sen. Dodd?  
   Taxpayers face a tab of as much as $200 billion for a government takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the formerly semi-autonomous mortgage finance clearinghouses. And Sen. Christopher Dodd, the Democratic chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, has the gall to ask in a Bloomberg Television interview: ``I have a lot of questions about where was the administration over the last eight years.'' 
   We will save the senator some trouble. Here is what we saw firsthand at the White House from late 2002 through 2007: Starting in 2002, White House and Treasury Department economic policy staffers, with support from then-Chief of Staff Andy Card, began to press for meaningful reforms of Fannie, Freddie and other government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs). 
   The crux of their concern was this: Investors believed that the GSEs were government-backed, so shouldn't the GSEs also be subject to meaningful government supervision? 
   This was not the first time a White House had tried to confront this issue. During the Clinton years, Treasury Secretary Larry Summers and Treasury official Gary Gensler both spoke out on the issue of Fannie and Freddie's investment portfolios, which had already begun to resemble hedge funds with risky holdings. Nor were others silent: As chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan regularly warned about the risks posed by Fannie and Freddie's holdings. 
   President Bush was receptive to reform. He withheld nominees for Fannie and Freddie's boards--a presidential privilege. While it would have been valuable politically to use such positions to reward supporters, the president put good policy above good politics. 
   In subsequent years, officials at Treasury and the Council of Economic Advisers (especially Chairmen Greg Mankiw and Harvey Rosen) pressed for the following: Requiring Fannie and Freddie to submit to regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission; to adopt financial accounting standards; to follow bank standards for capital requirements; to shrink their portfolios of assets from risky levels; and empowering regulators such as the Office of Federal Housing Oversight to monitor the firms. 
   The administration did not accept half measures. In 2005, Republican Mike Oxley, then chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, brought up a reform bill (H.R. 1461), and Fannie and Freddie's lobbyists set out to weaken it. The bill was rendered so toothless that Card called Oxley the night before markup and promised to oppose it. Oxley pulled the bill instead. 
   During this period, Sen. Richard Shelby led a small group of legislators favoring reform, including fellow Republican Sens. John Sununu, Chuck Hagel and Elizabeth Dole. Meanwhile, Dodd--who along with Democratic Sens. John Kerry, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton were the top four recipients of Fannie and Freddie campaign contributions from 1988 to 2008--actively opposed such measures and further weakened existing regulations.  
   The president's budget proposals reflected the nature of the challenge. Note the following passage from the 2005 budget: Fannie, Freddie and other GSEs ``are highly leveraged, holding much less capital in relation to their assets than similarly sized financial institutions. ..... A misjudgment or unexpected economic event could quickly deplete this capital, potentially making it difficult for a GSE to meet its debt obligations. Given the very large size of each enterprise, even a small mistake by a GSE could have consequences throughout the economy.'' 
   That passage was published in February 2004. Dodd can find it on Page 82 of the budget's Analytical Perspectives. 
   The administration not only identified the problem, it also recommended a solution. In June 2004, then-Deputy Treasury Secretary Samuel Bodman said: ``We do not have a world-class system of supervision of the housing government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs), even though the importance of the housing financial system that the GSEs serve demands the best in supervision.'' 
   Bush got involved in the effort personally, speaking out for the cause of reform: ``Congress needs to pass legislation strengthening the independent regulator of government-sponsored enterprises like Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, so we can keep them focused on the mission to expand home ownership,'' he said in December. He even mentioned GSE reform in this year's State of the Union address. 
   How did Fannie and Freddie counter such efforts? They flooded Washington with lobbying dollars, doled out tens of thousands in political contributions and put offices in key congressional districts. Not surprisingly, these efforts worked. Leaders in Congress did not just balk at proposals to rein in Fannie and Freddie. They mocked the proposals as unserious and unnecessary. 
   Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.) said the following on Sept. 11, 2003: ``We see entities that are fundamentally sound financially. ..... And even if there were a problem, the federal government doesn't bail them out.'' 
   Sen. Thomas Carper (D-Del.), later that year: ``If it ain't broke, don't fix it.'' 
   As recently as last summer, when housing prices had clearly peaked and the mortgage market had started to seize up, Dodd call on Bush to ``immediately reconsider his ill-advised'' reform proposals. Frank, now chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said that the president's suggestion for a strong, independent regulator of Fannie and Freddie was ``inane.'' 
   Sen. Dodd wonders what the Bush administration did to address the risks of Fannie and Freddie. Now, he knows. The real question is: Where was he? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DO-NOTHING CONGRESS -- (House of Representatives - September 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, this is indeed the do-nothing Congress. The Speaker of the House and the majority leader in 2006 made many, many promises. Among them was to bring down the price of gasoline, to have the most open Congress in the history of the Congress, to have the most bipartisan Congress. Every single one of those promises has been broken, and broken many, many times. 
   It is important that the American public understand that the Democrats are in charge of this Congress. The Democrats have the capability of bringing up a bill to allow us to vote to bring down the price of gasoline. But the bill they are going to bring up today is bogus, a sham, an illusion, a charade. All of those words that have been used are appropriate. 
   The Democrats are proving that they are anti-American energy. Republicans are pro-American energy. Republicans want to increase the supply. We want to increase our efforts at conservation. We want to increase alternatives. 
   The Democrats are totally out of touch with the American people. From August 1 until the end of December, they plan to work 14 days for the American public. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (RENEWABLE ENERGY AND JOB CREATION TAX ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank my colleague from Michigan for yielding time to me on this issue. 
   I think that what the American people are seeing here again today is an exercise in futility. They want us to come here and work together to get good legislation passed, and we are trying to do that. 
   Let me say that even the Democrats on the Senate side want us to do that. Let me share this quote from the majority leader in the Senate, the Democratic majority leader in the Senate: 
   ``I say to my friends on the other side of the Capitol, the House, don't send us back something else. We can't get it passed. If they try to mess with our package, it will come back here, it will die, and we will have snatched defeat from the jaws of victory.'' Senate Majority Leader HARRY REID on the Senate floor, 9-23-2008. 
   These folks don't even listen to their own party. We have what you would call a failure to communicate here. The Senate wants to get this bill passed, and the House is playing games. It's the same kind of game playing that we see day after day after day on the floor of this House. 
   Republicans are here to work; Democrats take off the entire month of August. They don't want to work. We stayed here and worked. We wanted a good energy bill. Now we want to do something on this tax extenders bill, and what do we get? Games back. 
   Let's listen to Senator HARRY REID. Let's get our work done. We have other important work that needs to be done, and we're wasting the time of Members on something that is dead on arrival in the Senate. That is not leadership. 
   I want the American people to understand the Democrats are in charge of the House and the Senate. They cannot blame Republicans when they fail. They have the votes. They are in charge. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (GOVERNMENT FAILS WHEN WE IGNORE CONSTITUTION -- (House of Representatives - September 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, this week we have been focused on what has been described as the most critical situation facing our economic status in our country since World War II. The liberals/Democrats say it is a failure of the markets. It is not a failure of the markets. It is a failure of our government. It is caused by ignoring the Constitution and by getting the Federal Government involved in things it should not be involved in. 
   If we are about to allow the very people who got us into this mess by promoting the bad policies, especially Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to design the cure, then in common parlance, we are about to let the fox guard the hen house. 
   Another point that needs to be made relative to this situation is that the Democrats in the House have been doing their best to blame House Republicans for the fact that a bill to solve this problem was not passed this week. What has to be said over and over again is that the Democrats are in charge, in control, of both Houses of Congress. They can pass any bill they want without a single Republican vote and have done so on hundreds of bills in the past 20 months, including several times today. 
   But suddenly, the Democrats want to make this situation the responsibility of the Republicans. Most Republicans want to have no part of any further slide into socialism that the legislation the Democrats are likely to present to us will represent. 
   The Republicans have presented alternatives that will not be allowed to be considered. But like many of my colleagues, I feel that God holds us guilty for sins of omission as well as sins of commission. Therefore, I think it is important that we raise the issues, that we discuss the situation, and that we present alternatives. 
   One very thoughtful person has given us the benefit of his wisdom and advice in this situation, and that person is John Allison, chairman and CEO of the very successful Branch Banking & Trust, known as BB&T, which is headquartered in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. I will share some of his comments and put into the Record his letter of September 26. 
   The letter is addressed to me. 
   ``Unfortunately, while under normal circumstances, there would be a free market solution, given the publicity and psychological mindset which is being created, Congress not acting is extraordinarily risky. Therefore, an alternative to the Paulson plan must be developed. A much more effective, far less expensive solution to the financial crisis than the Treasury Secretary presented is outlined below.'' 
   As I said, I won't read all of the letter, but I want to highlight some important points. He underlines these, and I do, too. 
   ``Without Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae and the affordable housing program (subprime), we could never have made a misallocation of capital of this magnitude.'' 
   Again, Mr. Speaker, the problem lays directly with the Democrats who pushed Fannie and Freddie and refused to allow Republicans when they wanted to bring them under control. Let me share the end of his letter. 
   ``By the way, the reason Bernanke and Paulson cannot see the solution is they are making a fundamental epistological (thinking) error. Bernanke is thinking from economic theory and Paulson is thinking from a capital market theoretical perspective. To solve the problem, we have to deal with the real physical world, i.e., the fact that there is a physical inventory of houses that needs to be cleared, and we must grasp what motivates real individuals (not theoretical collectives) to act. 
   ``A carefully designed housing tax credit and ending fair value accounting (as currently implemented) will fix the real estate markets, capital markets and the economy. This program will likely actually increase tax revenue by stimulating the economy by increasing taxable income. There is likely to be net gain to the government. 
   ``I hope you will give this issue serious consideration.'' 
   We have solutions available to us if we will follow them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (A WORKOUT, NOT A BAILOUT -- (House of Representatives - September 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I agree with some of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle; we need to work on this together. We have a problem in this country in terms of our financial situation, and it should be a workout, not a bailout. However, it is important that we establish who is responsible for this happening. 
   There is responsibility on both sides of the aisle, but it is primarily on the side of the majority in this House because they failed over the years to recognize that you cannot continue to spend, spend, spend, and not have a day of reckoning. 
   We were given a proposal at the beginning of the week by the administration, and I liken it to a sick patient who is told by their doctor: You are going to die if you don't take this experimental treatment. If you take it, it may kill you; if you don't take it, you may die. You will have scars on your body forever. 
   We needed a second opinion. Most people would get a second opinion if they were facing that, and that is what we have to offer the American people now, a second opinion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE COOPERATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleague from Florida for yielding me this time. 
   There is no one who appreciates firefighters, police and other public safety personnel more than I do. However, I rise in opposition to H.R. 980 because public sector labor relations has never been and should not be an issue with which Congress meddles. Historically, the terms and conditions of employment for all State and local employees has been an issue decided on the State and local level. This is the way it should be. 
   Some States, such as my home State of North Carolina, have laws banning monopoly bargaining schemes, while others give unions total control over public sector labor relations. Most States fall somewhere in the middle. 
   But in a move that chips away at States rights, this bill requires all States to set up systems to impose monopoly bargaining on all public safety workers, in effect nullifying the pre-existing laws of 27 States. A move like this is a virtually unprecedented infringement on States rights. 
   I want to be perfectly clear. Every worker in America, whether public or private, already has the right to form and join a union. That is not the question here. What the unions are asking for is the power to force their so-called ``representation'' on police and firefighters who do not want it. While some States have made what I view as the mistaken decision of giving unions that kind of power, that is their right under our Federal system. 
   This bill is flawed in that it takes away the right of States to make the decision on their own. At the end of the day, this issue does not belong in our hands. It should be left to the States. And, frankly, it is not Congress's business. 
   More than half the States in the country have refused to grant union bosses the complete monopoly control over public safety employment mandated by H.R. 980. They have done this not only as a rightful exercise of their States rights, but in the interest of keeping costs low for their taxpayers. 
   Studies have shown that monopoly bargaining increases costs for taxpayers. Multiplied across dozens of States, this would impose millions of new costs on taxpayers. State and local governments should have jurisdiction over their own employees, not the Federal Government. 
   The fact that this bill inserts the Federal Government into an issue that has always been one left to the States should give us pause, and it ought to make us wonder why it is being passed under suspension today. Any bill that makes this sort of dramatic change to public policy should be subject to the regular order of full debate and amendments. 
   Please, I ask my colleagues to join me in protecting the rights of States and vote against H.R. 980 today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to just say I am very concerned when there is an attitude here in the Congress that it is our money to spend. I want to make sure that nobody ever forgets that we are the stewards of money that we legally steal from the people of this country. We take it from them under duress, and we have a tremendous responsibility to make sure that that money is being spent well. 
   There's no such thing as Federal dollars. It's all money that belongs to the American taxpayers, and we're up here confiscating a great deal of their money and deciding how to spend it. And it's up to us to make sure that we spend it very, very carefully and very, very fairly. 
   The Constitution provides for no role for the Federal Government in education. We're already overstepping our bounds, and if we're going to overstep our bounds, we better be extraordinarily careful in that respect. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, my amendment would reduce funding for the Fund for the Improvement of Education by $10 million, while increasing IDEA State grants by $10 million. 
   Transferring these funds will ensure that Congress does not create a new unauthorized $10 million grant program for ``full-service community schools'' with the Fund for the Improvement of Education, a program which was specifically mentioned in the committee report. We should not be using appropriations bills to authorize programs. 
   It appears that language in the committee report for this program has been taken from legislation introduced by the House majority leader, as well as in the Senate by Senator Nelson. Their bill would create a $200 million full-service community school grant program. 
   What exactly is a full-service community school? According to the underlying funding bill, it's a ``public elementary or secondary school that coordinates with community-based organizations and public-private partnerships to provide students, their families and the community access to comprehensive services.'' 
   The language specifies that the grants must be used to provide not fewer than three services selected from a variety of selective services, including community service, service learning opportunities, nutrition services, job training and career counseling, primary health and dental care, mental health counseling services adult language, including instruction in English as a Second Language. 
   I am concerned we are moving schools away from focusing on the basics, academics. Our schools still have room for much improvement in ensuring all students are proficient in the basics of math, reading, writing, science and history. So why is the Federal Government sending money to turn schools into social, medical, educational job training hubs? 
   I am also concerned about the unsettling prospect of having adult, nonfamily members of the community regularly visiting school grounds for job training and medical and mental health services when young children and teenagers are present. Combining schools with health care and other social services for community residents poses a danger to students that would need to be addressed in any future legislation. 
   Since 1965, Congress has increased the role of the Federal Government in public primary and secondary education, as well as in higher education. If history has taught us anything about education, it's that the proliferation of Federal programs and regulations has not improved education. In a time where the Federal Government continues to spend more and more and expand its reach with very limited results, I question the need for us to meddle in affairs such as this. 
   With this in mind, my amendment would transfer $10 million from the Fund for the Improvement of Education to IDEA grants. These grants help States and localities pay for the rising cost of special education for 6.9 million children with disabilities. 
   While my amendment adds only a small amount to these State grants, any amounts are helpful in fully funding Congress' commitment to fund 40 percent of the average per-pupil excess cost of educating students with disabilities. 
   IDEA part B grants to States is funded at only $11.29 billion, which is $7 billion or 41 percent below the 2007 authorized level of $19.2 billion. I urge my colleagues to vote for this amendment to ensure that any full-service community school legislation goes forward through the proper authorizing process, not through the appropriations  process, and we put money where it's desperately needed, as we all know from hearing from the schools in our districts. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I appreciate the ranking member for yielding time to me. 
   I want to say that I am very troubled by the fact that the terms that are being used here that we want to test, creating holistic educational experiences, that's one of the problems, again, with the Federal Government being involved in the education process. It is not up to us to be doing that. The testing needs to be done at the local level. 
   There are programs. North Carolina has a tremendous number of programs where it's working through community centers, sometimes at schools, most of the time not, where they are trying to do these kinds of things. We don't need to be funding this at the Federal level. If the States want to do it, they ought to be doing it. 
   I think that calling this a symbolic amendment is a denigration it doesn't deserve. This is a serious amendment. We are violating our processes. We are violating what we say we are going to do here. Appropriations bills should not be authorizing bills. We separate that process. 
   I have not been here very long, and I know I don't know all the rules and the way things are done, but I noticed that the chairman reserved a point of order, but they were able to the waive points of orders in order to authorize. So when the majority wants to break the rules, it easily breaks the rules to try to accomplish what it wants to accomplish when it can't accomplish it the other way. So I am very concerned about it. I think this is a very valid amendment done very seriously. 
   I haven't sat over here for a couple of hours and haven't worked on this for many hours to think that it is frivolous or simply symbolic. It's an important thing. And I don't appreciate the amendment being denigrated in the way it has been denigrated by the chairman of the committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank my colleague for yielding to me. And I want to say again that I am sorry that my colleague from Maryland is not aware of this really excellent program that exists in North Carolina called Smart Start, which did this back in 1995, where we pulled together these different agencies to work together on this very good concept. But it is being done in States without Federal dollars, and I would urge the people in Maryland to look at that concept and deal with it. 
   I want to say that I am very concerned again, not by your comments but by the comments of the chairman, about the denigration of the allocation of $10 million as negligible. That is the attitude of people from Washington that adding $10 million is negligible. That is hard for people who are paying their taxes every day to understand that. I am sure that the teachers and parents of special needs students who are getting just a small percentage of money already authorized by this Federal Government to do what we are demanding that they do, they are not getting all their money. 
   Now, I commend the majority party for increasing the spending in this area, but it is the biggest complaint that I get when I talk to people about what is happening in education and the Federal role. So I think we need to put every dime we can possibly find into authorized programs already that are not spending what they should be spending. And I would say, I find it hard to look in the eyes of the parent of a special needs child or the teacher of a special needs child and say: We had an opportunity to give you 10 million more dollars and it was turned down; because they are there, and they need it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (REPUBLICANS WORK ON MEANINGFUL SOLUTIONS -- (House of Representatives - July 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, while the Democrat Congress sits on its hands, House Republicans are answering the challenge of $4 gas, taking our meaningful solutions to produce American-made energy, lower gas prices and promote energy independence directly to the American people. 
   When the French people were starving, the Queen said, ``Let them eat cake.'' Speaker Pelosi's office says, ``Right now our strategy on gas prices is drive small cars and wait for the wind.'' 
   The American people can't wait for the Democrats to decide what to do. They want answers now, and Republicans stand ready with solutions. The Republican plan will increase production of American-made energy in an environmentally safe way. It will promote new, clean, and reliable sources of energy while cutting red tape and increasing the supply of American-made fuel and energy. The House Republican plan also encourages greater energy efficiency by offering conservative tax credits to Americans who make their home, car and business more energy efficient. 
   So while Democrats continue to sit on the sidelines, House Republicans will continue to fight for meaningful solutions to lower gas prices and promote energy independence. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF SENATOR JESSE HELMS -- (House of Representatives - July 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Senator Jesse Helms. Senator Helms, who passed away this past 4th of July at the age of 86, was renowned for his considerable personal warmth and his commitment to the good of his constituents. So it is no surprise that in the days after his passing, tales from his constituents across the State of North Carolina paid tribute to his decades-long track record of thoughtful constituent service. 
   But Senator Helms was so much more than a good public servant. He was a man of integrity, and over the course of his 30 years of service in the United States Senate, you could always count on one thing: You knew where Jesse Helms stood on the issue. An outspoken conservative who was never bashful about defending the conservative principles of small government and individual freedom, he was a man who refused to compromise on his principles. 
   Senator Helms knew a conservative when he saw one. This is why he helped propel Ronald Reagan to the national stage by orchestrating Reagan's North Carolina primary victory in 1976. In so doing, he helped prepare the groundwork for the eventual Reagan Revolution of the 1980s. 
   As we remember the life of Senator Helms, we know we have lost one of the finest conservative statesmen of a generation. Senator Helms believed that America was the greatest nation in the world, and that belief informed his principles and the policies that he ultimately pursued. For instance, he knew that a strong America would be a signpost of hope for millions during the uncertain times of global communist influence in the seventies and eighties. As a strident anti-communist, he fought to ensure America would be a bulwark against the forces of oppression and tyranny in the communist corners of the globe. 
   Senator Helms was also an indomitable champion of life. He believed in the dignity of the lives of the unborn and fought with heroic energy to see to it that they might receive the protection they deserve. His pro-life legacy is still with us today. In fact, Senator Helms successfully amended legislation 35 years ago to include what is today known as the ``Helms amendment.'' This amendment, which is still in effect, mandates that no U.S. foreign aid money may be used to pay for or promote abortions. 
   Yes, Senator Helms fought for the innocent unborn, he condemned widespread corruption in the United Nations before it was popular to do so, and he staked out clear conservative positions without having to consult a pollster. He was a one-of-a-kind leader who passed on conservative principles to many, including me. But his crusades were never just about him. Rather, he fought for his country and the ideas that he knew made America great. 
   He said it best in his farewell address to the Senate: ``Being remembered isn't important. What is important is standing up for what you believe to be right, hoping that you have done everything you can to preserve the moral and spiritual principles that made America great in the first place.'' 
   Senator Helms' death last Friday was a profound loss for America and for the State of North Carolina. He served his country well, dispatching his duty to stand up for what is right with unrivaled moral clarity. He will be missed, and today my thoughts and my prayers are with his family and loved ones as they grieve this loss and remember a life well-lived. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING BROWNIE SCOUT TROOP 114 -- (House of Representatives - April 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the patriotic efforts of Brownie Scout Troop 114 of Liberty Grove Baptist Church. This group of 18 young women has demonstrated a tangible commitment to supporting our troops stationed in Iraq. Last month they collected donations to send nearly 250 boxes of Girl Scout cookies to the brave men and women from their community who are serving in Iraq. 
   They pounded the pavement to sell cookies and find like-minded people who were willing to join them in sending cookies to a local North Carolina National Guard unit stationed near Tikrit, Iraq. I applaud the thoughtful and committed patriotism of these girls who invested their time to selflessly raise money and then send a token of appreciation to our Nation's troops. 
   The troops that are receiving the famous Girl Scout cookies are members of the headquarters 105th Engineer Group from Winston-Salem. For these men and women, there is no small act of kindness. No, this is much more than that. For our troops on the front line of the war on terror, to receive a package of cookies from a local Brownie Scout troop is like receiving a breath of fresh air from home. Whether or not these young women knew it, they were communicating to our soldiers that there are people who still care for our troops' welfare. They communicated that the youngest generation still values sacrifice and service to country. 
   I come to the floor today to celebrate this concentrated act of patriotic kindness and to honor the young ladies who have taken ownership of our Nation's great tradition of offering support to our troops serving abroad. Their example highlights what our great Nation is capable of producing in its youth. 
   We cannot emphasize enough how proud we are that these Scouts made this effort to brighten the days of hundreds of soldiers in Iraq. What may seem like a small token of gratitude will live on in the memory of the many troops who, in the coming weeks, will enjoy a box of Girl Scout cookies in the deserts of Iraq. I have no doubt that these men and women will look back with great fondness as they remember the day when the mail call brought them an unexpected box of sweets and a reminder that their community and their country stands behind them in this difficult time. 
   The members of the Brownie troop who sent this gift of baked goods are Alexandra Dillard, Reva Combs, Laken Harrold, Allison Livengood, Allie Barker, Lauren Johnson, Daniella Meeza, Kristina Meeza, Acacia Key, Charlotte York, Cheyenne Byrd, Alexis Baldwin, Erin McGee, Angela Nardini, Karlie Cranfill, Caitlyn Minton and Hope Brown. 
   It is my hope that their example is reproduced by many others, and that the soldiers who receive the fruit of their labors feel honored and respected by this act of young-hearted kindness. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (STEM CELL RESEARCH -- (House of Representatives - April 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, Dr. Gingrey, Congressman Gingrey. I appreciate your starting off this hour this evening on this important issue. I also appreciate your having gone to Wake Forest to visit the Institute for Regenerative Medicine. Some of the most important research that is happening in the area of stem cell research is occurring at the Institute for Regenerative Medicine at Wake Forest University. And I am very proud to represent them here in the Congress. 
   I am going to talk a little bit about what they are doing, but I want to reiterate some of the things that you have been saying. I got out my file today on this and looked back at my notes, and it was almost 2 years ago that I stood on this floor one evening, a little earlier than this, and spoke for about 40 minutes about the issue of stem cell research. And I have told this story many, many times to people, because many may wonder why we are here speaking sometimes to very few of our colleagues who are here in the Chamber. But I tell this story because it was about 9 o'clock at night, and as I said, I spoke for about 40 minutes. And when I got back to my office, the staffer said to me, you just had a call from a gentleman from Maryland who had never watched C-SPAN before, was channel surfing and saw this woman standing on the floor of the House and wondered how in the world did she get to be on the floor of the House when he thought only Members of Congress could speak on the floor of the House. And I didn't look like I was a Member of Congress, so he stopped the channel surfing and watched and listened to me talk about the issue of stem cell research and  called my office and said that he was so grateful for that because he had not understood the issue like I had explained it.     
   And he wanted to just call and thank me for that. And that has been one of the things that has kept me going and doing these Special Orders at night, thinking that even if we only reach a few people who are watching, it is important to do that, and it is particularly important on this issue. 
   And I think how you described, Dr. Gingrey, the way the survey question should be asked, explaining to people exactly what is going to happen as a result of the research, is very, very important because we all know you get about whatever results you want to from a survey depending on how you ask the question. But I think describing what stem cell research is, is extremely important, and talking about what is being done. You have presented some facts and figures there already, and I want to do it again. I just think that every time we talk about it, we need to talk about it. 
   People who are pro-life support stem cell research. I support stem cell research. You do. Every other person here who considers himself or herself a pro-lifer supports stem cell research. But what we want is research that does not require the killing of human life. That is what is important to us. We also know, as you have pointed out, that a lot of money is being spent on embryonic stem cell research. A lot of Federal dollars are being spent on that. And I think, frankly, that we are paying more than our fair share for research that many people find to be morally repugnant. 
   You gave some statistics. Mine are not long-term statistics. I have the 2006 numbers. 
   In 2006 NIH spent $38 million on embryonic stem cell research, compared to $200 million on human nonembryonic stem cell research, adult and cord blood research. That is very important research. That is the research that has given us some results in terms of curing disease. We have gotten no positive results from embryonic stem cell research, and that is the point I think that needs to be made over and over again. 
   And one of the reasons I am very excited about the research that Dr. Atala and his team are doing is because they are doing research that doesn't require the destruction of human life. Dr. Atala, who came to Wake Forest from Harvard and brought a large team, as you said, with him, is a tissue engineering specialist, and he has found that amniotic fluid stem cells have those pluripotent properties that you pointed out earlier and grow as fast as embryonic stem cells. And I know that he talked to you about the research, particularly in growing bladders, that has occurred there and the tremendously positive response that he has gotten. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (STEM CELL RESEARCH -- (House of Representatives - April 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Right. Well, thank you again for pointing out more of the scientific evidence that we have. And I think it is very important that a person with your background as an OBGYN physician can understand this issue so well and explain it. I think that all the physicians on our side of the aisle are very strong pro-lifers and are working very hard to get the information out about this issue. 
   As you point out, those stem cells, those coming from the umbilical cord and those coming from the placenta and the amniotic fluid, have shown tremendous results. 
   The other thing that the media does not point out and that people who are proposing that we go to embryonic stem cell research with government funding, they don't point out the fact that over 70 diseases have been treated by adult stem cells and zero treatments have come out of embryonic stem cell research, even though embryonic stem cell research just passed the 25-year mark. For over 25 years, scientists have been looking into using embryonic stem cells, and we have really gotten nothing but negative results from that, and we have gotten tremendously positive results from adult stem cell research. 
   So that is why it is so important that we always distinguish between adult stem cell research and embryonic stem cell research. We must do that when we talk about it. Again, it is like what you have said, pointing out the questionnaires and the surveys, making sure that people get asked the right question and that we describe the issue very, very well. We need very much to educate the American public on this issue so that they won't think that the President is being very arbitrary when he vetoes the bill and that we are not being arbitrary when we uphold that veto, which I hope that we will do. And we need to explain to people the ethical questions that we are dealing with. 
   As I pointed out in my comments a couple of years ago, and I want to say it again, never in this country have we sanctioned research that would harm other human beings. There was the research done in the 1930s that was wrong. We have condemned it. Since that time we have had very, very strong and ethical programs to protect adults from diseases that would cause them harm and from diseases that would cause them death. And yet people don't see the same problem when they are dealing with embryos, and we have to do that. We must do that. We are crossing an ethical Rubicon when we sanction using embryos for research or creating embryos for this research. I think that it is really going over the line, and we must tell people that, and we must have them understand the long-term implications of that for our society and for the human race. We don't believe in doing that in this country.     
   I think that we have to be very careful again that we explain we can get better results from doing things ethically than we are going to get from doing things unethically, and we don't start down a slippery slope of treating human beings in the wrong way. 
   I want to thank you again for coming tonight and starting this discussion on this very, very important issue. I hope there is at least one gentleman out there or one person out there, whether they are in Maryland or some other State, who is watching this for the first time and understanding the issue and the distinction that we are making between doing ethical research on adult stem cells and what most of us consider is unethical research on embryos, which will destroy them; and that we can continue to use funds to support programs like Dr. Tony Atala's research at Wake Forest University and other places where they are seeing excellent results. And if we take that money away, we may be denying the kinds of cures that many people say they want to get; but by ignoring the adult stem cell research victories, we may be slowing up the great results that we could get. And I yield back to you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (NEW FISCAL YEAR -- (House of Representatives - October 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I am very grateful to you, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Hensarling and Mr. Price. I was enjoying listening to you all speak about this issue and helping to educate the American people about what we are dealing with here, particularly as it relates to the numbers that Congressman Hensarling is so good at doing. 
   It probably won't surprise anybody that a September Gallup Poll revealed that Americans' trust in the Federal Government is at a low ebb. Today, most Americans trust the Federal Government less than they did during the Watergate scandal. At the same time, a new Reuter's poll found that Congress has an all-time low approval rating of 11 percent. 
   I am extraordinarily proud to represent the Fifth Congressional District of North Carolina in the Congress. I am not proud that is the way that Americans feel, though, about the Congress of the United States. I think there are many reasons that people feel that way about the Congress. I think that one of the main reasons that people feel that way is because last year the Democrats who ran for office and who became the new majority in this Congress after 12 years made a lot of promises. 
   Republicans were not perfect in the 12 years they were in control of the Congress. Lots of mistakes were made. Republicans, some Republicans, forgot their way, lost their way and strayed from the conservative principles that got them into the majority. 
   Democrats promised they would be different. They would run the most bipartisan, most fiscally conservative Congress that had ever been seen. They promised lots and lots of things, and they have broken all of those promises. That's why I think that the attitude toward the American people is so negative toward the Congress these days. They are disappointed. 
   You know, as children we are brought up to believe 
   the promises that are made to us. I think one of the greatest disappointments people have is when they are promised something, particularly by their elected officials, and then the elected officials break those promises. I think that is what has happened. 
   What we are seeing here is, time after time, things that the Democrats said in the campaign last year, they have gone back on. I am going to give one quote here from Speaker Pelosi from 9-16-06 at a news conference: ``We have to have the fullest possible disclosure, and it has to be on earmarks in appropriations, in authorizations and in taxation. And it has to be across the board, with no escape hatches.'' 
   In fact, what has happened is the Republicans had to take the Democrats kicking and screaming into revealing what their earmarks were. In fact, I was here on the floor with an amendment on the floor for 22 hours back in June when we were dealing with the homeland security bill to say to the Democrats: It is time you lived up to your promise. You've got to disclose these earmarks. 
   They had planned not to disclose any of those earmarks until after the bills were passed, and then they were going to publish them in the month of August and let people try to figure out where the earmarks were. So I think, again, a major part of the problem that we are having with the attitude of the American people towards Congress is they are disappointed in us. 
   Republicans last year passed legislation that made all of our earmarks transparent. There are differences of opinion on whether we should have earmarks or not. I think the Constitution gives us not just the right but the responsibility to spend money the way we think it should be spent through the Congress. That is our responsibility. However, everything should be transparent. Everything should be out there. 
   If I ask for special project money, I should be proud enough of that money to say where it is going. But not everybody wants to do that. What the Democrats have done is they have hidden their earmarks in legislation. We finally were able to force them into revealing earmarks in appropriations bills, but not even in all appropriations bills have they disclosed them. 
   Reference has been made tonight to earmarks in the SCHIP bill last week. Every time a bill passes this House practically, we find there are earmarks buried in those bills written in such a way it is very difficult to discern where those earmarks are. 
   Republicans don't believe in that. We believe if you are going to have earmarks, they need to be transparent, and I think that is the direction in which we should be going. And I believe doing that will help the American people feel better toward what the Congress is doing, and we need to build trust with the American people in order for us to be able to do the work we need to do. 
   But what the Democrats have been doing is trading earmarks for votes. Again, it seems impossible to think that with the majority they have they would need to do that, but they have been doing it. What they are doing is taking taxpayer money, money that we confiscate from the taxpayers of this country, and then spend it on projects that we think are projects that should be funded. We don't need to be doing that, and we particularly don't need to be doing that unless we are willing to show exactly where we are doing it.  
   What is happening is, again, we forced them to say we are going to do it on appropriations bills, but they still have not agreed to do them on authorizing bills or on tax bills. But we have to have that. We have to have transparency and truth in all of the legislation that we have passing out of this House. 
   I support the discharge petition that has been signed. I was one of the first people to come here and sign that discharge petition. It is going to be very difficult, but we are going to be putting the Democrats who call themselves the Blue Dogs, call themselves conservatives, this is going to be a defining moment for them. Are you really a conservative or are you just a tax-and-spend liberal who tries to fool the people in your district that are conservative when you don't put your name on the line to bring these bills up so that we can see exactly how you are going to vote on them. You can talk a good game, but the real point is: Are you willing to vote for this legislation? Are you willing to sign a discharge petition? And so far none have been willing to do that. 
   We are on the first day of a new fiscal year, and we have a reckoning with the American people. No appropriations bills have passed the Congress this year. We are operating on a continuing resolution. I agree, a continuing resolution that keeps spending at last year's level is better than increasing spending. But the Democratic majority have not lived up to their promises. They have broken every single one. It is time we call them to account. 
   I want to thank Congresswoman Blackburn for leading this hour tonight and for bringing this matter to the public yet again, because I think taking care of this matter of earmarks, taking care of this pork barrel spending is something that the American people want us to do, and it is high time we did it.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CAPTAIN JONATHAN D. GRASSBAUGH POST OFFICE -- (House of Representatives - February 28, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   I rise today to urge passage of this bill designating the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 59 Colby Corner in East Hampstead, New Hampshire, as the Captain Jonathan D. Grassbaugh Post Office. Described by his family as ``the epitome of an officer and a gentleman,'' Captain Jonathan Grassbaugh was a truly remarkable young man. 
   Born into a military family, Captain Grassbaugh moved to New Hampshire at the age of 3. After graduating from Phillips Exeter Academy, he attended Johns Hopkins University where he earned his degree in computer science. During his time at Hopkins, Jonathan rose quickly through the ranks of his Army ROTC class, selected as the cadet battalion commander his senior year. Jonathan's dedication and sense of honor served as a driving force behind the JHU Ranger Challenge team winning brigade competitions 2 years in a row and the battalion being rated third in the nation among 270 ROTC units. 
   In the words of one of his professors, ``In my 9 years of teaching ROTC, Jonathan Grassbaugh was by far one of the most energetic and conscientious young men that I have ever had the honor to teach.'' 
   In 2005 during his first tour in Iraq, Captain Grassbaugh served as aide-de-camp to Brigadier General Michael Ferriter, a top adviser to the U.S. military commander in Iraq. Speaking at Jonathan's funeral, Ferriter commented on the young man he grew to know so well: ``He made me a better leader and a better man. He was simply as good as it gets. He was the best; a warrior, friend, comrade, loving husband, and caring son.'' 
   In June of 2006, Jonathan married his college sweetheart, Jenna, just a few  days after her graduation from Hopkins. A few weeks later he was deployed to Iraq as a member of the 73rd Cavalry, 5th Brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division. On April 7, 2007, the 25-year-old Grassbaugh was killed by an IED while conducting a combat logistic patrol in Zaganiyah, Iraq. 
   A loving husband, dedicated son, and accomplished soldier, Captain Grassbaugh was and will remain a shining example of America's best. Though we will never have the privilege of knowing the limits of his seemingly endless potential, the memory of his spirit, honor, and dedication should live on as an example to others. In the words of the Reverend Frederick Pennett at his funeral, ``He laid down his life for us and for his country. There is no greater love than this. Jonathan's story and his memory will go on forever.'' 
   I urge that we help preserve the memory of Captain Jonathan Grassbaugh with passage of this bill, and I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting this fitting tribute. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (JOHN ``MARTY'' THIELS SOUTHPARK STATION -- (House of Representatives - February 28, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today to join my fellow Members of Congress in lamenting the senseless murder of 50-year-old Alexandria, Louisiana, letter carrier, John Marty Thiels, on Thursday, October 4, 2007. Mr. Thiels was a 30-year veteran of the Alexandria post office. 
   For over 20 years of that time, he faithfully carried mail on the same route in downtown Alexandria and became well known in the community. On the fateful day of Mr. Thiels' death, a local deranged man went on a shooting spree, eventually taking the lives of five people, including Mr. Thiels, before police were able to take control of the situation. When Mr. Thiels' life was taken, he was simply going about his daily routine of delivering mail to a local law office in Alexandria, Louisiana. 
   This terrible event goes to demonstrate that public servants are not immune from harm. On the contrary, many of them brave unforeseen dangers every single day, including innocent letter carriers such as Mr. Thiels. 
   The death of Mr. Thiels was a senseless and heartbreaking tragedy for both his family and the community that he served so well for over three decades. Mr. Thiels' family and his community deserve our deepest sympathy and condolences for their loss. The naming of this post office is a fitting tribute to Mr. Thiels and his dedicated service to the postal service. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SGT. JASON HARKINS POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - February 28, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, born in Fort Campbell, Kentucky on September 29, 1981, SGT Jason Harkins was a 1999 graduate of Habersham Central High School. His commitment to military service began at an early age. When he was a young boy, he used to run around with toy guns and swords practicing to become the Army man his father was. 
   Sergeant Campbell served three years in the U.S. Army Reserve and was currently serving with the Striker Brigade, Second Infantry Division based out of Fort Lewis, Washington. He never wanted to be called a hero because he believed he was just an ordinary person doing extraordinary things. Campbell however, was a hero. He proved he was a hero when he survived a roadside bomb during his first tour in Iraq. He proved he was a hero when he rescued a wounded soldier while they were under fire during his second tour. 
   And sadly, he proved he was a hero on May 6, 2007, when he and five other men in his platoon were killed when a makeshift bomb exploded near their vehicle. Sergeant Harkins was only 25 years old. 
   His decorations include the Bronze Star of valor and the Purple Heart. 
   Sergeant Harkins leaves behind a large family and a wife who will always remember him as a ``true country boy'' who found the best in every situation and could always make those around him smile. 
   Let us pay our respects to Sergeant Jason Harkins and remember his commitment to serving this Nation by naming the post office located at 116 Helen Highway in Fort Lewis, Washington, in his honor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (JOHN HENRY WOOTEN, SR. POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - February 28, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge passage of this bill designating the Cashwell Drive postal facility in Goldsboro, North Carolina, as the John Henry Wooten, Sr. Post Office Building. 
   As an educator, public servant, and devoted member of the community, Mr. Wooten selflessly dedicated his life to those around him. 
   A veteran of World War II, he earned his bachelor's and master's degrees from North Carolina A&T State University. Throughout his distinguished career as an educator, he served as a science teacher, principal, and assistant superintendent. He was also active in his alma mater, serving as a trustee and as the national president of the alumni association. He was one of two North Carolina educators chosen by President Lyndon B. Johnson to serve on the White House Commission for Education. 
   Beyond his responsibilities as an educator, Mr. Wooten, in 1986, became the first African American chairman of the Wayne County Board of Commissioners, a position he ultimately held for 12 years. 
   His community lost a tremendous citizen when Mr. Wooten passed away in January. His dedication to family, church and community will never be forgotten. And I urge our colleagues to pass this bill in honor of a deserving human being. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN FALLEN MILITARY HEROES OF LOUISVILLE MEMORIAL POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - February 28, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   I rise today to urge passage of this bill designating the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 3050 Hunsinger Lane in Louisville, Kentucky, as the ``Iraq and Afghanistan Fallen Military Heroes of Louisville Memorial Post Office Building.''     
   In the wake of the attacks of September 11, the United States struck back against those forces that wished to destroy not only this Nation, but all people that do not agree with their limited views on freedom, justice, and democracy. Every day across this great Nation, men and women answer the call to duty to combat these forces. Many have paid the ultimate price. Others have been wounded. But their sacrifice came so others may live safe and free. For that, we are eternally grateful. 
   Since the beginning of this conflict, eight heroic servicepeople from Louisville, Kentucky, have lost their lives in Iraq and Afghanistan. We honor their sacrifice with this postal designation. This also serves to honor those who may lose their lives in service to our country in the future. 
   These brave citizens of Louisville, like so many other Americans, lost their lives protecting us from those people who fight against the rights and privileges that we as Americans enjoy. I urge that we pass this bill so that their memory and sacrifice will not be forgotten. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (COLLEGE COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the ranking member for giving me this time. 
   I have sat here and listened to this debate on this bill, and I want to say we are back at dealing with hypocrisy again, as we have been on a daily basis. 
   The College Cost Reduction Act, the title is not just a misnomer; it is an outright lie. Much of the $18 billion in new spending doesn't reduce the cost of college, but instead consists of new welfare targeted at people who aren't even students. 
   And comparing this bill to the GI bill is truly, truly hypocrisy. We instituted the GI bill to help men and women who had fought for this country and returned to this country to help them get college education and get back into our culture. 
   All this is going to do is increase the nanny state. What we are doing is taking away personal responsibility from people and giving them out and out payments for loans that they take out that they don't need to take out. 
   Economists are not going to tell us that money spent on education is a good investment, and the government doesn't invest money. The government spends money. It is interesting to me that they brought out the big guns for this bill and they say it is no new cost to taxpayers. Well, every dollar we take away from taxpayers is a cost to them. 
   Why is tuition up 43 percent? We are looking at the wrong issue. As long as the government keeps throwing money, then the institutions are going to keep expanding what they charge. I have used myself as an example before, but I know many people who have done this. They went to college and never borrowed a dime. They were as poor as could be. 
   We should call this the new Democrat welfare bill. It is a Trojan horse. It is designed to fool the American people. We have used this analogy before. You can put lipstick on a pig, but it is still a pig, and that is what this bill is. There is no need for this. There is no need for people to go into debt to go to college in this country. There are all kinds of choices for people. All we are doing is taking money away from hardworking American people and creating new government programs. 
   I am really concerned about the direction in which we are heading in this country. The Democrats have never seen a welfare program they didn't like. Republicans were able to decrease welfare costs when they took over in this body in 1995. This is another attempt by the Democrats to continue the welfare program. 
   I want Americans to have access to education. I have worked in education all my life: school board member, university administrator, college president. I have dealt with low-income students. This is not the way to do it. We don't need a return to the nanny state. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (COMMENDING THE APPALACHIAN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL TEAM FOR WINNING THE 2006 NCAA DIVISION I-AA FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 210, congratulating the Appalachian State University football team for winning the 2006 NCAA Division I-AA National Collegiate Athletic Association Championship. 
   It's my honor today to recognize the tenacity, sportsmanship and national championship victory of the Appalachian State University football team. The ASU Mountaineers won their second straight NCAA Division I Football National Championship in a 28-17 victory over Massachusetts this past season. Powered by the record-breaking, four touchdown performance of junior running back Kevin Richardson, and the stellar leadership of Head Coach Jerry Moore, ASU has solidified its place among the best of America's college football teams. 
   In their championship performance, the Mountaineers rushed for 285 yards, with Richardson racking up 179 of those yards. His four-touchdown performance also broke the NCAA Division I Football Championship Subdivision single season record with 30 rushing touchdowns in 15 games. Richardson, who is the Southern Conference Offensive Player of the Year, finished the season with 1,676 yards rushing, a new ASU record. 
   In a testament to ASU's remarkable championship season, Head Coach Jerry Moore was named the American Football Coaches' Association Division I-AA Coach of the Year. Moore was also named the Southern Conference Coach of the Year for a record fifth time. 
   Coach Moore's been at ASU for 18 years, and last year may have been his best year yet. Despite a 23-10 loss in the season opener at NC State, he led ASU to a 14-game winning streak crowned by their national championship win. Their record-breaking winning streak found the Mountaineers dominating opponents by an average margin of victory of 22.6 points. 
   During his time at Appalachian, Moore has amassed an impressive 154-68 record, which sets him apart as the winningest coach in Southern Conference history. 
   The 2006 season was a remarkable time for the Mountaineers, and not surprisingly, the team is overflowing with accomplishments. Eight ASU players were named All Americans, and 19 were All Conference selections. 
   ASU players also made a clean sweep of the Southern Conference's post-season awards. Offensive Player of the Year went to Kevin Richardson. Marques Murrell took home Defensive Player of the Year. Kerry Brown won the Jacobs Blocking Trophy, and Armanti Edwards captured the Freshman of the Year honor. 
   Edwards led the Mountaineers to 13 victories as a freshman quarterback and was the second freshman and fifth player overall in Division I history to tally 2,000 passing yards and 1,000 rushing yards in a season. 
   ASU's 14-game winning streak and 14-1 overall record set school records for wins in a season and consecutive victories. ASU now holds the Nation's longest Division I football winning streak at 14 games. In addition to having the longest overall winning streak in Division I, the Mountaineers also hold the longest home winning streak in the football championship subdivision at 27 straight games. 
   I'm so proud to be an alumnus and to represent Appalachian State University in Congress and to once again recognize its accomplishments on and off the playing field. It was just over a year ago that I had the honor of recognizing the Mountaineers as the 2005 NCAA Division I-AA football national champions. Their repeat national championship performance this past season is a clear instance of the value of hard work and integrity. 
   I applaud the players and coaches who are receiving their due recognition for another fantastic season. I especially want to compliment Coach Moore for his strong faith and his open expression of his faith. He and his assistant coaches are excellent role models for the players and students they lead. 
   Two national championships in as many years is reason to celebrate. I'm pulling for a third championship in 2007 and a third opportunity to honor these fine players and coaches on the floor of the House of Representatives. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (RECOGNIZING 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL ARKANSAS -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 436, a resolution congratulating the University of Central Arkansas as it celebrates the 100th anniversary of its founding on May 14. I would like to thank the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Snyder) for introducing this resolution in recognition of the contributions the University of Central Arkansas has made to the education of citizens of our Nation and around the globe. 
   The university enrolls over 12,000 undergraduate and graduate students, 90 percent of whom are full-time students, and 54 percent of whom receive financial aid. With more than 100 degrees to choose from, students have a wide range of academic opportunities. In the 2005-2006 academic year, the university awarded 1,286 undergraduate and 324 master's degrees to its students. The university's faculty of over 600 full- and part-time professors ensures an average student-to-faculty ratio of 19 to one. 
   Enrollment has continued to grow at the University of Central Arkansas. Total enrollment increased 8.9 percent in the spring of 2006 due in part to a 26.6 percent increase in total first-time entering freshmen. Graduate enrollment has also made impressive gains, increasing 51.5 percent over the past 5 years. 
   The University of Central Arkansas is nationally recognized for its strong academic programming. This year, the magazine U.S. News and World Report ranked the College of Business Administration at the University of Central Arkansas as one of the best graduate schools in the country. Its undergraduate honors college, established in 1982, has been perceived by the State and Nation as a highly innovative, model program. In fact, numerous universities throughout the country have sought the University of Central Arkansas' guidance in the creation of similar programs to challenge students to read, write and analyze more critically in preparation for excellence upon graduation. 
   The university's theater program is also nationally recognized by the National Association of Schools of Theater for meeting professional standards of quality in theater education and training, as set forth by the association. 
   The University of Central Arkansas proudly participates in 15 NCAA Division I varsity sports and is a member of the Southland Conference. More than 300 dedicated male and female student athletes participate in the conference, which competes against schools in Texas and Louisiana. 
   I would like to congratulate all of the students, alumni, and past and present employees on all they have accomplished over the last 100 years at the University of Central Arkansas. I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (STEM CELL BREAKTHROUGH -- (House of Representatives - January 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and congratulate Wake Forest University's Institute for Regenerative Medicine for its recent medical breakthrough in amniotic fluid stem cell research. Using these specific cells does not require the destruction of human life at any stage. 
   This is tremendous news. Not only does this prevent the destruction of human life but these stem cells have amazing properties that show very promising results. Unlike embryonic stem cells, these remain stable for years without forming tumors and are easily retrieved for medical use. They also have the ability to grow into brain, muscle and other forms of tissue that could potentially cure diseases. In addition, since these cells are a genetic match to a fetus, they can be used to help cure birth defects or even be frozen over time to use as a personalized tissue bank for use later in life. 
   In addition to being a medical breakthrough, this gives hope to millions who support the sanctity of life that curing diseases and the potential for regenerative tissue growth are possible in a moral and ethical way. 
   I am proud to recognize the truly amazing work of Wake Forest University's Institute of Regenerative Medicine and look forward to the promise of its continued research. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE OFFICIAL TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - January 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, Congressman Price, for yielding. And, again, thank you for keeping our Truth Squad together and making sure that we are here on a regular basis presenting the facts to people. That is what I think we have to do on this very, very important issue of stem cell research. 
   The people who are pushing for embryonic stem cell research and the media, I think, have very much misled the American public on this. They have not done a good job of educating people on this issue. 
   I had a chance last year to speak on this issue for quite a long time on the floor and got a lot of positive feedback from people saying this is the first time I ever had anybody really explain the difference in embryonic stem cell research and stem cell research. So I want to talk a little bit about that tonight, because I think that is one of the critical issues, and then I want to talk about the facts again. It really is important that we understand what the facts are as they relate to the difference between adult stem cell research and embryonic stem cell research, and I am going to probably repeat this several times because I think it is so important. 
   I have something that is not as good as the charts, but stem cell research treatments, adult stem cell research treatments, if you can see this, it says: ``Adult, 72; embryonic, 0.'' That is the score. There have been 72 efficacious treatments that have come out of the research on adult stem cells, zero out of embryonic stem cells. In fact, all the research that has been done using embryonic stem cells have produced tumors and rejection, and no embryonic stem cell research has been allowed to be done on humans because of the very bad results that have come out of the research using embryonic stem cells. 
   Now, the other thing that people have been misled on is whether there is any embryonic stem cell research going on. There is embryonic stem cell research going on, but many people, including myself, object to the use of Federal funding when it involves the destruction of human life. 
   In 2006, NIH spent $38 million on embryonic stem cell research. You will never hear that coming out of the voices of the people who are pushing for embryonic stem cell research. They want the American people to believe that nothing is being done and that people who have debilitating diseases are being denied the opportunity for quick cures.     
   Nothing could be further from the truth. Approximately $200 million is being spent on human nonembryonic stem cell research: adult stem cells, cord blood, et cetera. 
   I am proud to be able to say that Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center, Dr. Tony Atala and his team of researchers have been able to show strong results in their work with amniotic fluid stem cells. That has come out this week and I have talked about it on the floor and we are going to continue to talk about it. I spoke to Dr. Atala just before I came over here tonight, and he wanted me to remind people of the real problems with embryonic stem cells and the fact that every time they have been used they create tumors, and they are rejected by the animals into which they are injected. 
   That does not happen when you are using a person's own cells or when you are using amniotic stem cells. That just is not happening with people. 
   So we need to make sure that people understand the difference because it is so easy for folks to talk about stem cell research, and they make folks like me look like we are mean and hateful people because we don't want to do this research that kills human life because they are saying that it is worth it to improve the lives of people with diseases. 
   But pro-life people support stem cell research. There is only one exception, we don't want that research to kill other human life. We don't think that is appropriate. Never in the history of this country have we allowed research to do that. We very strongly control research to make sure that human beings are not damaged by the research that is done. 
   In a former life I was a social scientist, and so I understand about the ethical way to do research. We have never done that in any other area, and yet it seems so easy for people to talk about doing embryonic stem cell research and destroying the embryos. 
   The national media and others have really ignored the scientific realities, and they fail to report that embryonic stem cell research is the less promising course of action that, in fact, ends life.  This negligence allows people who are suffering from diseases to develop false hope about possible breakthroughs by embryonic stem cell research. Again, just the opposite is true. Nothing positive has come out of embryonic stem cell research. Nothing. Zero. 
   But out of adult stem cell research, cord blood research, amniotic fluid research, we have, again, 72 good treatments that have come, and we will be expecting more of those. Every day we have breakthroughs in that area, and we will continue to have breakthroughs. But if we get distracted by taking money away from this very promising research and put it into this unethical research that destroys human life and holds very little promise, then that is where the real crime is, I think, that we are trying to take the money away from what is producing good results and put it into something that is not producing good results. 
   As I said before, no embryonic research has been done in humans because it is too dangerous. When it has been done in laboratory animals, there is no control over what happens. The stem cells develop in ways that can't be controlled. They create tumors. They are rejected, and it is all negative; and yet with the other, it is all positive. 
   I think when we have the vote on this issue this week, people have to keep this in mind. I hope that the citizens who in the past have not understood the difference in these issues, they have not understood the ethical issues or the scientific issues, will say to your Member of Congress, I now understand this better, and I want you to take the ethical route, the efficacious route, not the route that will create death to the embryos and not positive kinds of results. 
   I yield back to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Price) who is the official leader of our Truth Squad and helps us inform the American people at every one of these events. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING THE LIFE OF BENNY PARSONS -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commemorate a true inspiration whose perseverance showed the very best of the human spirit. Yesterday, Benny Parsons, a NASCAR legend, passed away after a difficult battle with lung cancer. 
   Parsons grew up in the foothills of North Carolina in Wilkes County, and his dedication and drive lifted him from poverty to national recognition. He became an inspiration to countless fans and individuals. He was a beloved character who brought passion to the sport. Today, we mourn and also celebrate the life of this beloved man in the 5th District of North Carolina. 
   The chairman of NASCAR, Brian France, said of Benny Parsons, who was affectionately referred to as BP, that ``Benny Parsons was a true champion, both on the race track and in life. Benny loved our sport and the people that make it up and those people loved him. He will be remembered as being a great ambassador for the sport.'' Words such as these convey the deep admiration, respect and love of Benny and the effect he had on those with whom he connected. 
   After leaving Wilkes County, Benny first took a job as a cab driver in Detroit, Michigan, before he progressed to become a NASCAR champion. While faced with fame and admiration, Benny never forgot his roots and the importance of where he came from. He was often referred to as ``The Professor'' after he retired from racing in 1988 and began broadcasting and commenting on NASCAR races for NBC, ESPN and TNT. He had an uncanny ability to deliver information in a relaxed and informative way for the last 6 years, even when he was going through the rigorous treatment for cancer. 
   Michael Waltrip, who recently tested his car at the Daytona track, said of Benny, ``When you talked to him, he brought out the human element. The cars are nuts and bolts, but he talked through that. He was able to deliver to people. He just tried to be passionate about what he believed, and he did a great job of explaining what people were seeing.'' To show his admiration of Benny, Waltrip painted on the side of his car, ``We love you, BP.'' 
   Respect, admiration and inspiration among colleagues, fans and the public made Benny Parsons the amazing and inspirational figure that he was, but it was his personality that espoused all of these qualities so many came to admire. It was his passion and commitment to NASCAR and his love of the sport that made Benny such a lovable person and such a great inspiration. Even at his sickest moments, he had set up a Web blog for his fans, continually sharing his optimism that he would recover and that the will to fight is so important. 
   Besides the inspirational spirit and the continual drive to fight any obstacle in front of him, Benny Parsons was quite the accomplished NASCAR driver. He was a member of NASCAR's 50  greatest drivers. He was the 1973 NASCAR champion and won 21 races, including the race in 1957 at Daytona. In addition to those accomplishments, Benny was the first driver to be a Cup competitor, to qualify for a race over 200 miles per hour, driving 200.176 miles per hour at the Winston 500 at Talladega Superspeedway in 1982. 
   Benny Parsons made 526 starts from 1964 until his retirement in 1988. With such an outstanding record, Benny was inducted into the International Motorsports Hall of Fame in 1994 and continued his passion by broadcasting from the pit and won a Cable Ace Award for best sports analyst on his first season in the booth. 
   I think that NBC sports champion Dick Ebersol said it best about Benny, commenting, ``Benny was a beloved and widely respected member of the NASCAR community. He was a great driver and a terrific broadcaster, but above anything else, he was a kind and generous human being. His character and spirit will define how he is remembered by all of us.'' 
   Benny fought cancer to the end with optimism and grace, inspiring countless people. His compassion, generosity and charming personality will be missed. Benny had made North Carolina and NASCAR proud, and his memory will be a lasting one of inspiration and dedication. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PELOSI STEWARDSHIP -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my disappointment with the broken promises of the Democratic leadership. I had high hopes that the promise of unlimited amendments and bipartisanship would prevail in the 110th Congress, but there have been no signs of these promises. 
   From the beginning, hypocrisy and corruption have reared their ugly heads. The minimum wage bill is touted as a massive relief for the poor, while only 2.5 percent of the population are actually making the minimum wage. This bill was nothing more than a kickback to unions, who use the Federal minimum wage to negotiate their salaries. This increase is a whopping 41 percent over 26 months; not to mention that in the bill American Samoa was exempt, a place where there are two canning plants for Del Monte Corporation, headquartered in San Francisco. 
   The pledge for open debate and unlimited amendments has been completely ignored. Democrats' bills have been rammed through without opportunity for amendments. So many promises made, all of them broken. 
   Mr. Speaker, this 100-hour agenda is a pure sham of political showmanship. The Democrats have distorted the North Carolina State motto, which is, ``To be rather than to seem.'' While these bills seem worthwhile, they are nothing more than window dressing for political gain. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE OFFICIAL TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, Congressman Price, and thanks for always being so prepared with the Official Truth Squad and having the charts out there that show people the facts. Before I got here, I hope you said your famous line, people are entitled to their opinion, but the facts are the facts and we cannot change those. That is important. 
   Again, I think what we have here is a sham, and perpetuation of untruths by the Democrats to the American people; and frankly, having served 10 years in the State legislature, in the State senate, we were not allowed to say things that were untrue. We got called down by the presiding officer. So when I first came here and heard Democrats doing that, I was stunned, and as you know, pushed to get the Truth Squad going so that we could get the facts out there. 
   But I appreciate your comments about my experience. Let me say that I do know a lot about this subject, both from my own personal experience as a student and my experience as a university administrator and college president. 
   I grew up about as poor as anybody you will ever meet. So did my husband. It took me 7 years to get my undergraduate degree, but I graduated from college without a single penny of debt. We have heard all these sad stories about all these people graduating from college with debt. But, you know, it doesn't have to be that way. People choose to borrow money to go to college. They can work, and they can apply for scholarships. They can do the kinds of things I did. I got absolutely no help from home. I financed my entire education and graduated after 7 years without a penny of debt, so it can be done. 
   Students have lots of choices where to go to school. We have community colleges that are very inexpensive that do wonderful jobs, all the way up to very expensive schools in this country. People have that opportunity. 
   After I graduated, after I earned my doctorate, I was a university administrator, and I knew a lot about financial aid because that was part of my job. Then I became a community college president. So I do know this subject very well. 
   Again, I am appalled at this. I said on the debate about stem cell research that we are so misleading the public, thinking that if we do embryonic stem cell research, we are suddenly going to cure all the diseases in this country. 
   I think the Democrats are being very cynical again in trying to perpetuate to the American people that if this bill, this bill did pass the House today, by passing this bill in the Congress, what we would do would be to make college education affordable and accessible. It will do not one thing to increase access for any single person going to college. It will not make a college education more affordable. 
   I heard you and my colleague from Tennessee talking about how it is not going to help a single college student. It only cuts down the cost of interest that people have to pay back after they get out of school, and, as you pointed out, it exists for a mere 6 months. What an absolute travesty to try to perpetuate on the American people. 
   We need to get the truth about this bill out. I know that there is an 80 percent approval rate for this topic. Certainly the American people want colleges and a university education to be more affordable. However, what we are doing in the Federal Government is, we are actually driving up the cost of going to college. We are driving it up by putting all of this Federal money out there. 
   You know when the Federal dollars are out there, people will go after it, and the colleges and universities raise their tuition rates every time we increase the amount of money that is available to go to college. Then they scream and yell that they don't have enough money. 
   That is what we are doing. By doing this kind of a thing, we are doing the opposite of what the Democrats say they want to do. 
   If they were honest about what they wanted to do, if they wanted to help truly needy students, which I worked with my entire career in higher education, low-income students, first-generation college students, then they would put the money into the Pell Grants or into work-study. Studies show that people who work 15 hours a week while they are in college do much better than students who don't. So that is the kind of thing that we should be doing. 
   This is another broken promise. The Democrats want to say it is a fulfilled promise. But even this only produces one-tenth of what they promised to do in the campaign, 10 percent return on their promises. We need to figure out a nice ditty to go with that, 10 percent return, 10 percent of the 100 percent promise is what the Democrats are producing here, and it is bad. 
   What I think the Democrats really want to do is turn us into a socialistic country where the government controls everything. They want to put the  government in control. What I think they want to do is drive the private sector out of this area. We do have a direct government loan, but most of the loans are being done through the private sector. 
   You know, I don't know a single thing in this country that the government does better than the private sector. There is nothing more efficient. But what would happen is, by tinkering with these rates, even making things very insecure, you are going to drive the private sector out. Because they do business plans; they don't have a well to go to, like the American people, to draw up that money just by adding taxes that the American people cannot resist. What they want to do, I think, is really put the government in control of financial aid and of loans. That would be a terrible, terrible mistake. We don't need to be doing that. 
   So I think it is important that we come here every week, every night, every day, and tell the American people what the truth is about these programs that the Democrats are pushing. 
   I want to point out one other thing that I am not sure has been pointed out today. I am quoting from a fact sheet that was given to us by staff of the Education Committee. In a shocking display of hypocrisy, Democrat leaders are paying for their $6 billion-plus plan with some of the same lender subsidy cuts crafted by congressional Republicans in the 109th Congress. Ironically, House Democrats voted against many of these cuts the last time they were proposed, calling it part of the now discredited rate on student aid. 
   Now, what they do, they brought in, in almost every case the bills they brought in had been bills that we had last time. They voted against them, they now bring them in. This is not something that we did last time; we didn't say this. We did do a lot to decrease the rate of spending for loans, but we added money for the loans, but decreased what students would have to pay for the loans. We did do that. 
   Furthermore, in 2002, Representative George Miller, who is now chairman of the committee, praised what the Republicans had done by fixing the 6.8 percent rate that began last year. He says, in addition to extending lender subsidies, it cuts interest rates to students fixing the rate at 6.8 percent beginning in 2006 and will save the average student about $400. Too often in Congress the needs of the average people come last in line. 
   My colleagues, meaning Republicans, should be commended for assuring that this legislation meets the needs of students and their families. My goodness, he has got amnesia about what he said just a short time ago about what the Republicans were doing. But this suits their needs. They can get out and make campaign promises and then come in here, fulfill 10 percent of what they promised to do, and then try to fool the American people. 
   Republicans have done a great deal to help students who are struggling to get an education, and we will continue to do that. But we are not going to be duplicitous about it. We have been very straightforward about it. 
   I want to thank you again for leading the Official Truth Squad tonight and helping us get the word out to the American people. 
   We are not going to let them get by with telling their open truths. We are going to bring the facts here every time and make sure that the American people hear, as Paul Harvey says, ``the rest of the story.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (COLLEGE STUDENT RELIEF ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I am very grateful to my colleagues for giving me an opportunity to speak on this bill. I have been listening to the debate on this bill, and it is, again, an amazing situation for me. 
   My colleagues on my side of the aisle have been extremely articulate. They have presented the facts, and I am amazed that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, at how they can stand up and simply not tell the truth over and over and over again. I am just astonished by it. 
   I graduated from college after 7 years without a dime of debt. I worked my way through school. Any student who wants to go to college in this country can graduate from college without a dime of debt. 
   We have all kinds of choices in this country as to where to go to college. If people want a college degree, they can do it. 
   What we are doing, by decreasing, by the sham, it is nothing but a sham, and I think people have to say that over and over again. I am not going to repeat the statistics that have been given, because they have been given very well. 
   My opponents simply cannot deny the facts, they cannot deny the numbers. How we have increased the Pell Grants, they can't deny, and how they did nothing to increase the Pell Grants. But they cannot deny the facts. They can give your opinions, but they cannot deny the facts. 
   One of the facts is, there is going to be one time, 6 months, where this is going to be cut in half, as they said they were going to do. What a shame that they are doing that and making the people of this country believe that they are, quote, ``keeping their promises.'' They are not keeping their promises. 
   All we are doing is inviting colleges and universities to increase their tuition and fees. I became a college administrator and a college president. So I know student financial aid from the inside and out. This is, again, a smoke-and-mirrors issue. 
   We are not going to help students, we are not increasing accessibility for poor students. If we were, we would be putting this into either work-study or Pell. That is how you really help the low-income students who are trying to go to school, not by decreasing to 3.4 percent for 6 months, the loans. 
   What they are really trying to do here, I think, is drive the private sector out of the market for having student loans. They would like the government, again, to take over this entire program. 
   We are not increasing this issue of accountability. We don't know when our students graduate from college now what skills they have. Republicans have tried and tried and tried to get schools to be accountable for what they are charging for, and it is very expensive to get a college degree these days, especially if you go to private institutions. 
   So we don't increase the accountability, but we increase what the colleges and universities are going to charge. I think it is a very cynical move on the part of the Democrats to do this, and I think it is very unfortunate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING MUHAMMAD ALI ON HIS 65TH BIRTHDAY -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I might consume. 
   I rise in support of the resolution to honor Muhammad Ali on his 65th birthday. I can think of few people more deserving of this honor. Yes, he is the only three-time heavyweight champion of the world, as well as an Olympic gold medalist. Yes, he was crowned Athlete of the Century by Sports Illustrated, but Muhammad Ali is so much more than a boxer. He is a man who literally taught us another way to talk and think about sports and about life. 
   We had never heard athletes put their work to rhyme before Ali vowed to ``float like a butterfly and sting like a bee.'' We had never seen an athlete so adept at the promotional aspects of his sport. Today we remember the names of his fights, the Rumble in the Jungle, the Thrilla in Manila, as much as the fights themselves. 
   And when his career in the ring ended, we had never seen an athlete who moved so seamlessly, so dramatically, so thoroughly to put his fame to work for the public good. It was after he had hung up the gloves, remember, that Time magazine declared his the most recognizable face on Earth. 
   He earned that sobriquet through his tireless struggles against hunger and poverty, he is said to have helped provide more than the 22 million meals for the hungry, through his support for education, adoption and efforts to urge young people of diverse backgrounds to grow in their understanding of one another. 
   Today, he continues his work for the betterment of all humanity through the Muhammad Ali Center in the downtown area of his hometown of Louisville, Kentucky. He continues to promote that which brings people together as opposed to that which pulls them apart. He continues to teach the lessons that made him great. His center is organized around the six core values of respect, confidence, conviction, dedication, giving and spirituality. 
   In his younger days, he revolutionized boxing with hands so fast they could deliver punches not even visible to the naked eye. Since then, he has revolutionized the role of retired athlete, leading by example, showing others how to put their fame and fortune to good use. 
   For these reasons, I urge all Members to support this resolution for this most deserving American. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE OFFICIAL TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - January 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to thank you, Congressman Price, for bringing the Truth Squad back. It is unfortunate that we had to do it on the first day of session, but it was necessary to do that. As some folks know who may have seen us in the 109th Congress, and you know to me it seems like it was only yesterday we were here. It does not seem like a while ago. 
   We began the Official Truth Squad because our colleagues on the other side of the aisle were constantly saying things that we knew were not true, and we felt that somebody needed to respond to them. It fell to a group of primarily freshmen Members to form the Truth Squad, although we had great help from some of our colleagues, some of whom are here tonight, to talk about the truth. 
   Unfortunately, a lot of what our colleagues said in the 109th Congress, some of those things that were not true were believed by the American people, and they believed a lot of the things that they said that were not true about the economy, about things that were happening in the government; but they believed them on their promises of what they said they would do. 
   They offered to make changes, and we know that there were some Republicans who didn't do all that they should have done, not just in the last Congress but in others. 
   And so the American people have held our feet to the fire on this. I think we came back here, though, with a very positive spirit and we all came in today knowing it was going to be a very historic day, but we were going to celebrate the very positive day that we have here. 
   All of us are very grateful for the wonderful opportunity to serve in the Congress of the United States, and we came here with the idea that we were going to solve problems that all Americans face. We see that happening in our communities every day. We see Democrats and Republicans working together side by side in many different ways. 
   I marvel every time I go to a parade or to some fair or some event that is put on by a community and how the people have worked together to do that, very often without any support from any government body because they put aside political differences for the good of the community. That is obviously what we Republicans want to be happening in the 110th Congress. 
   We believe that the American people are united in their desire for peace and national security. They want solutions to problems, not partisan bickering that only creates deadlocks and no solutions. 
   Again, the people in our communities do that every day, and so we looked forward to the goal and the promise of the new majority to restore the House to civility, to restore open debate so that ideas can be examined, always reviewed and respected. And as Leader Boehner said today in his speech, ``May the best idea win.'' 
   We are here to debate ideas. We want to put the best ideas out there and know that if we put our good ideas out there and get them up for a vote, many times they are going to win; and many times we are going to vote for the ideas that the Democrats bring up. But we should be united in a common goal, although they are different perspectives. All Members agree they should be able to voice their opinions on behalf of their constituents and the constituents that sent them here to represent them. 
   We are going to hold the Democrats accountable to their promises, just as the Truth Squad during the 109th Congress came in and brought in the facts. And we are not going to compromise our ideals or principles, but we are going to do everything we can to make America better. 
   We want open debate on legislation. We want Members to be able to voice their concerns, their opinions, offer amendments in subcommittees, full committee and in consideration of any legislation on the floor. There should be plenty of time to review legislation and every Member should be allowed the opportunity to participate. After all, this is the people's House. It doesn't belong to the Members of Congress; it does belong to the American people. We are here not for a lifetime but temporarily to serve the people who sent us here. 
   As we are reminded again today, this House has been here for a long time and will be here for a long time to come. We want to make sure that it is strengthened and not weakened in what we do. 
   I don't believe there was a direct mandate in this last election. Folks lost races and won races for lots of different reasons; but I do believe the American people want change in the way we operate. 
   As I said the other day in our conference, as I have heard the rhetoric and seen the actions of our Democratic colleagues, the North Carolina State motto just kept going over and over in my head. The North Carolina State motto is ``esse quam videri'' which means: to be rather than to seem. 
   What we want to make sure is that our Democratic colleagues don't try to pull the wool over the eyes of the American people by seeming rather than being. And what we have seen on the first day is the seeming rather than the being. 
   So we want to do what I think the American people want us to do, to find solutions to the problems we face. We don't think that is going to be done behind closed doors and legislation ramrodded through here because of the majority. We don't want Members stripped of the ability to address the House with their ideas, principles and amendments. Those things don't affect us individually as much as they affect our constituents. 
   So I am going to remind our colleagues over and over and over again of the North Carolina State motto and say to them we hold you to the principles of doing what you said you were going to do and being rather than seeming. 
   Again, I want to thank my colleague from Georgia for organizing the Truth Squad in the 110th Congress, and I look forward to working with you, although I hope we are not going to have to be here too many nights a week. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (EARMARK IN SCHIP BILL -- (House of Representatives - September 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, yesterday the House passed a SCHIP bill that makes a mockery of the earmark rules. An already seriously flawed bill got worse when it became clear that we would be voting on a bill that had been given a sham earmark certification. Quite simply, this bill contained an earmark, despite receiving the earmark-free designation by the House Rules Committee. 
   The House rules are clear. If a bill has earmarks, it must be identified accordingly. But, somehow, the Democrat majority shoehorned money for specific health care facilities into yesterday's SCHIP legislation and slipped it through committee. 
   I don't doubt there are medical facilities that need funding, but not funding that bends the rules. Are the American people supposed to take proclamations about new ethical standards seriously? If anything, we are witnessing a new atmosphere of hypocrisy, a charade of openness that veils a status quo rife with secret earmark spending. 
   This is not the way this House should do business. Let's get back to doing business the way the American people want, without secret earmark spending and with accountability for every dollar in every piece of legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEMOCRAT PRESCRIPTION DRUG BILL IS BAD MEDICINE -- (House of Representatives - January 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, it seems that the Democrats have a one-size-fits-all solution for all the issues facing our country: Big Government. According to the Democrats, the best thing  for the American people is to involve the government in every aspect of our lives instead of letting citizens decide for themselves what is right for them. 
   An example of this is their current proposal to let the government, quote unquote, negotiate drug prices for prescription drugs covered by Medicare. No one will argue with lower drug prices, but that is not what this bill will accomplish. What the Democrats don't tell you is that this bill will lead to fewer choices of prescription drugs for our Nation's seniors and will hurt community pharmacies, as it will increase mail order prescriptions. 
   In short, Madam Speaker, this bill is bad medicine, as is the notion of Big Government that the Democrats are pushing on the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEMOCRAT BUDGET AND TAX INCREASE -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I want to talk about two issues tonight. I am going to start out by talking about the Democrat budget and the tax increases that they are proposing, and I want to talk a little bit about the emergency supplemental. The two are tied together in many ways in terms of the hypocrisy we are seeing come forth from the Democratic leadership. 
   The House Budget Committee is in the midst of marking up the fiscal year 2008 budget resolution. As it currently stands, the proposed budget assumes the expiration of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, which have given us this vibrant economy that we have. It is going to create, therefore, a $392.5 billion tax increase, the largest tax increase in American history. 
   It proposes no changes to slow the exploding growth of Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid that would result in deficit reduction. 
   Those 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, as I have said, have helped create a very vibrant economy. They produced real tax decreases in the tax burden on North Carolina's married couples, single parents and families. Almost every taxpayer in North Carolina, low income, single, married or self-employed would lose valuable tax cuts under the assumption in the Democrat budget proposal. 
   It is not a real surprise, though. We knew this was going to happen. It is business as usual for the Democrats and proves that their promises to be fiscally responsible are just empty rhetoric. I have said before this is a smoke-and-mirrors Congress, and that is exactly what it is. 
   It would return us to the Democrats' beloved tax-and-spend model for government. They have willfully abandoned their pledge for fiscal responsibility. They pledged to do PAYGO budget rules and spending restrain to curb the deficit, and they have done none of that. 
   Last year, Republicans rejected $14 billion in nonemergency spending that the Senate tried to attach to the emergency troop funding bill, but the Democrats are doing just the opposite. 
   Now I want to talk about the supplemental. The emergency supplemental, the Democrats said they would never try to coerce people into voting for legislation they didn't want to vote for. Last week they said they weren't whipping this bill, they were just trying to talk people into voting for it. Well, if this is gentle persuasion, I would hate  to see what whipping a bill is. The Members on the Democrats are being threatened and coerced into voting for this. Their votes are being bought with millions and millions of dollars of pork barrel spending that has been put in the supplemental. It is really a slam against our troops. 
   The proper role of the Federal Government is the defense of this Nation. We may not be completely happy with every way the dollar is being spent on defense, but if that is the case, then what we need to do is have true accountability. Using the word ``accountability'' doesn't make it so. We heard our colleagues here talking about that. If we wanted true accountability, we would be holding the kinds of hearings that would give us accountability. Instead, we have ``gotcha'' kinds of hearing. Every hearing here now is a gotcha kind of hearing. 
   Don't take my word for the fact that this is a terrible bill that they are bringing up, what they are calling the emergency supplemental. The Los Angeles Times called for the bill to be vetoed. It said: ``It is absurd for House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi to try to micromanage the conflict and the evolution of Iraqi society with arbitrary timetables and benchmarks.'' 
   So in addition to the wasteful spending that is going into the emergency supplemental, we are hearing from even the liberal press that this bill does not deserve to pass. 
   They are using our troops as bargaining chips. The Politico said: ``Democrat leaders see this emerging strategy as a way to encourage their liberal members to vote for the supplemental budget bill.'' 
   They have willfully abandoned their pledge of fiscal responsibility, and we should not be allowing our troops to be used as a pawn in the hands of the Democrats to get funded programs they want to fund that they take off the budget because it is in the emergency supplemental. It is not a part of pay-as-you-go. 
   Even the Democrat leaders concede that their own bill is flawed. Democrat whip James Clyburn has described his party's proposal as a ``bitter pill to swallow,'' again in the Politico. 
   We should reject this bill. I believe we will reject this bill. We need to support our troops. We need to give them the reinforcements they deserve. We need to win this war on terror. The Democrats never talk about winning; they only talk about losing. That is not the American way. The American way is to take the challenges presented to us, face them squarely, and win and do the things that are right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (COMMENDING AND CONGRATULATING VIRGINIA STATE UNIVERSITY ON ITS 125TH ANNIVERSARY -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I might consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 182, a resolution to recognize the contributions of Virginia State University on the occasion of its 125th anniversary. 
   I want to thank the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Forbes) and my colleague on the Education and Labor Committee, Mr. Scott, for introducing this resolution and recognizing the important role that Virginia State University plays in educating young people from all over the world.  
   As a historically black college and university, or HBCU, Virginia State University is one of a diverse community of institutions. Historically black colleges and universities include 2- and 4-year institutions, public and private institutions, as well as single-sex and coed institutions. To be designated a historically black college or university, an institution must have been established prior to 1964 with a primary mission of educating African Americans. 
   Mr. Speaker, HBCUs have a long, proud and well-established heritage. These institutions have been educating the students of this Nation for over 100 years. While comprising fewer than 3 percent of the country's 2-and 4-year institutions, HBCUs are responsible for producing a significant number of all bachelor's, master's and professional degrees earned by African Americans. 
   Congress has repeatedly recognized the importance of the historically black colleges and universities. Between 1995 and 2006, congressional funding for the Strengthening Historically Black Colleges and Universities Program rose from $109 million to $238 million, a 118 percent increase. What is more, funding for the HBCU Grad Program increased from $19.6 million to $57.9 million, an increase of 195 percent. 
   Virginia State University, located in Petersburg, VA, was originally founded on March 6, 1882, as the Virginia Normal and Collegiate Institute and was the first fully State-supported 4-year institution of higher education for African Americans and one of Virginia's two land-grant institutions. VSU's first president, John Mercer Langston, went on to become the first African American Member of Congress from the Commonwealth of Virginia. 
   This school offers 43 undergraduate degree programs and 15 graduate degree programs. The campus is composed of more than 50 buildings, which include a 416-acre agricultural research facility. Since its founding, VSU has grown from a small HBCU to an institution that enrolls just over 5,000 students, 96 percent of whom are African American. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is for all of these reasons and more that I urge my colleagues to honor the 125th anniversary of Virginia State University and support H. Res. 182 
   Mr. Speaker, I now yield as much time as he needs to my colleague from Virginia (Mr. Forbes). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (RECOGNIZING THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE NEGRO BASEBALL LEAGUES AND THEIR PLAYERS -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 162, which honors the Negro Baseball League. 
   Those of us who love baseball relish the comparisons between players of different eras that our rich statistical records permit. Nobody who witnessed  Hank Aaron, a Negro League alum, break Babe Ruth's home record can deny the impact that feat had on the game and on society. 
   The shame of racism, which afflicts our country even today, prevents us from properly assessing the place in the game of Negro League players. We know that some of the greatest players ever to pick up a bat and ball toiled in those leagues. But who was better, Josh Gibson or Johnny Bench? Satchel Paige or Cy Young? Cool Papa Bell or Mickey Mantle? How would the Pittsburgh Crawfords, who had six Hall of Famers, stack up against the 1927 Yankees, the best team of baseball's all-white era? 
   Baseball today is one of America's most perfect meritocracies. If you can throw 92-mile-per-hour strikes or hit them consistently, there is a place in the game for you. 
   It wasn't until 1890, when team owners began to see the potential of their product, that black players began to disappear from white teams. And then it wasn't until the mid 1940s when Branch Rickey of the Dodgers decided he would rather beat the Yankees than honor the unspoken agreement to keep black players out of the game that black players returned. 
   Today we understand as a Nation that talent comes in all shapes, sizes, and colors. Baseball taught us that. Negro League players taught baseball that. For that, Mr. Speaker, we are eternally grateful. 
   I urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting H. Res. 162. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING THE LIFE AND ACHIEVEMENTS OF LEO T. McCARTHY AND EXPRESSING PROFOUND SORROW ON HIS DEATH -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, Leo McCarthy was a dedicated public servant and long time political force in the San Francisco area for decades. It is with sad news that we speak about him on the floor today after learning about his recent death. 
   Throughout his political career, he worked tirelessly on issues such as coastal protection, nursing home reform, breast cancer awareness, female-owned small businesses, financing for the Bay Area Rapid Transit System, employer provided child care and the prevention of hate crimes, just to name a few. 
   He was born in Auckland, New Zealand and emigrated with his family to California at the age of 4. The son of an Irish bar owner, he was raised in San Francisco's Mission district and attended St. Ignatius College Preparatory. 
   Before his political life began, he served his country proudly in the Korean war in the U.S. Air Force. He earned his undergraduate degree from the University of San Francisco and his law degree from San Francisco law school. 
   He began his political career as the youngest member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors in 1963 before serving on the California Assembly from 1969 to 1982. He honorably led the California Assembly as its Speaker from 1974 to 1980. He was elected to a record three terms as Lieutenant Governor before retiring from politics in 1994. While serving as Lieutenant Governor, he instituted reforms to provide more accountability and greater public access. Among his work, he established the Feminization of Poverty Task Force comprised of women leaders from business executives to former welfare recipients to develop ways to overcome economic barriers confronting women. He also supported the Greater Avenues for Independence Program to help welfare recipients enter the work force. 
   After retiring from politics in 1994, his passion and dedication to public service continued with the creation of the Leo T. McCarthy Center for Public Service and the Common Good at the University of San Francisco. The goal of the center is to inspire and equip students for lives and careers of ethical public service and serving others. Since its inception in the fall of 2001, the McCarthy Center has initiated several programs including academic courses, public panels, internship programs and faculty-led projects that engage students in the analysis of social and political issues. Leo McCarthy's leadership in the center spread inspiration throughout all the students and staff involved. It exemplified his dedication to his community and to the greater good. He will be greatly missed by all those who knew him and worked with him. 
   I ask all Members to join me in support of this resolution. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (MILCON-VA APPROPRIATIONS CONFERENCE REPORT -- (House of Representatives - November 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, we celebrate Veterans Day on November 11. Every day in this country should be Veterans Day, that is, we should highlight veterans and thank them for their service to our country. 
   Yet, it's been over 140 days since the House passed the MilCon-VA appropriations bill and 8 weeks since the Senate passed it. The bill has strong bipartisan support and the President is ready to sign it. Yet Democrats have delayed bringing this bill to the floor. 
   The Democrats finally announced they're bringing it to the floor this week, but instead of voting on a stand-alone bill which would ensure quick passage and provide funding for our troops and veterans, they're using it as a political tool by attaching it to the Labor-HHS bill. 
   The American people hate this kind of political posturing. They know that when bills are combined like that, that it's a political and cynical ploy. That's the only way the Democrats can get their pork-barrel spending passed is by attaching it to the military bill. 
   By using it as a political tool instead of an urgent spending priority, the Democratic leadership illustrates where their priorities are, and they aren't with our troops and veterans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (RECOGNIZING THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF RECORDING ARTS AND SCIENCES -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 273, which recognizes the 50th anniversary of the National Academy of Recording Arts & Sciences. 
   Mr. Speaker, while the music industry has changed and continues to change over the years, its importance to the lives of Americans has not. Songs provide inspiration, evoke fond memories, and even comfort us during times of need. 
   In addition to entertaining us, we should also be mindful of the music industry's role in our Nation's economy, accounting for some $11.5 billion annually. Moreover, this sector of our economy provides jobs to thousands of singers, songwriters, musicians, producers and other recording professionals. 
   In 1957, the National Academy of Recording Arts & Sciences was formed to honor the most talented music makers by creating the world's most prestigious music award, known as the Grammy Award. 
   This unique award is not based on sales, popularity or consumer taste but is given as a peer award by artists for artists. The award also continues to be the only peer-presented award to honor the achievement, technical proficiency and overall excellence in the recording industry. 
   The Recording Academy's responsibility for the Grammys is only the tip of the iceberg. The academy has also expanded its scope beyond recognizing the best in music to include groundbreaking professional development, cultural enrichment, advocacy, education and human services programs. In time, the Grammy Foundation was created to recognize the significant contributions music has made to American culture and its impact on all of our citizens in the past, present and future. 
   Another aspect of the academy's outreach is MusiCares. Through the efforts of this program, a wide range of financial, medical and personal emergencies for many struggling artists in the Nation's music community are covered. MusiCares also provides educational programs that are found throughout the country that focus on the preservation of our musical heritage. 
   Through its 12 chapters across the United States, the Recording Academy impacts the music community at large by working diligently to protect the music creators through strong intellectual property rights, addressing the legality of downloading and purchase of music on the Internet, as well as music preservation and music education. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this concurrent resolution congratulating the Recording Academy during its 50th Grammy celebration, and recognizing its important contribution to the success and vitality of music makers.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (COMMENDING THE HOUSTON DYNAMO SOCCER TEAM FOR WINNING THE 2007 MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER CUP -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in favor of H. Res. 867 which congratulates the Houston Dynamo for winning its second straight Major League Soccer championship. 
   Early in the season, the Dynamo team members weren't so much worried about defending their title as merely maintaining respectability. They brought a 2-4-1 record into Washington's RFK stadium, less than two miles from where we stand right now, on May 26. 
   Though they lost by the score of 2-1 that night, to a man, they agreed that was the game when things turned around. 
   The Dynamo did not lose again until July 10, a period that covered 12 games. After that, they went six more games without a loss. By then, they were back where they belonged, atop the MLS standings. 
   The key for this team, from all accounts, was its defense. The Dynamo scored 43 goals in 30 games. Not outstanding for a league champion, but it allowed just 23 goals as opponents wore defenders from all three lines of the Dynamo attack like a cheap suit for most of the season. 
   Brian Ching, Stuart Holden, Eddie Robinson, Ricardo Clark, Brad Davis, and Patrick Ianni formed the backbone of those three lines. Pat Onstead, who help the team set a league record for best goal-against average, 0.73 per game, provided other-worldly goalkeeping. 
   The season was not without its drama. After recovering from the slow start, the Dynamo again flirted with elimination when it lost to FC Dallas, 1-0, in its first playoff game and trailed 1-0 and faced elimination in its second. But the Dynamo then buried Dallas in a four-goals-in-30-minutes barrage and never looked back. It beat New England in the finals 3-0. Does this sound familiar? 
   The Dynamo showed what can happen when the team recognizes its weaknesses and buys into a plan to fix them. 
   Congratulations to Coach Dominic Kinnear and his players for showing what can happen when we pull together and rise above.  
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, some of my colleagues who have spoken before me on the side of life have been extremely eloquent, and I am very glad that they have spoken this morning. 
   I have listened to the debate this morning, and I want to say that many people are very cynical about our government and about Congress in general, and I can understand why this debate would make even more people cynical. To say to the American people that by approving more Federal dollars to do embryonic stem cell research would cure all of these diseases that are brought out and that those of us who oppose spending more Federal dollars on embryonic stem cell research are stopping the advance of science is one of the most cynical things I have ever heard said on this floor and, I think, will tend to make more people think that Members of Congress who are pro-life are cruel and unkind. 
   As my colleagues have said, the score board is 72-0. Nothing efficacious has come out of embryonic stem cell research in 25 years of research. In fact, a lot of negative things have happened. And to mislead the American public is cruel. It is just absolutely cruel to make people think again that they could be cured. 
   Thirty years ago, I lost a side of my right eye completely from a detached retina. You can't implant retinas. You can't transplant retinas. The only thing that could possibly help me would be a new retina to be grown. 
   So I support stem cell research. I support Dr. Atala's work in North Carolina at Wake Forest because they are actually growing organs from people's own stem cells. That research has enormous potential. Adult stem cell research has done good things. Embryonic stem cell research creates tumors and rejection. Dr. Atala would tell you that himself. It is not the way to go. 
   What we need to be doing is promoting stem cell research and to do all that we can. My husband is diabetic. I am very empathetic to the fact that research could do a lot to help us with diseases, but this is not the route to go. Killing human life does not have to be accomplished to create efficacious treatments for people and diseases. 
   Again, I am so disappointed in the way this has been presented to the American people. We are doing embryonic stem cell research. Embryonic stem cell research and stem cell research are two different things. My colleagues never use the word embryonic. They always say stem cell research. Pro-lifers support stem cell research; we just don't support the destruction of life to get there. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORTING THE PRESIDENT'S PLAN FOR IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Last night, the President addressed the Nation about the war in Iraq. No one is happy that we are at war, but we must remember that we were attacked by the terrorists; that the war in Iraq is critical to the global war on terror, and we must continue to fight and defend against the terrorists there as much as at home. 
   We must maintain our efforts to provide security and stability for the Iraqi government and its people until they are able to do so themselves. We cannot walk away or we will face increased bloodshed at home and abroad. 
   I applaud the President for recognizing the need for a new direction in the Iraq war in order to achieve this and presenting tangible alternatives to the problems we currently face there. 
   I support making sure that the Iraqis take the lead and act aggressively and swiftly against any violence. Prime Minister Maliki has issued a commitment to meet these challenges, and the President must hold him accountable to this pledge. It is my hope the proposals put forth will lead to success in Iraq. 
   Our troops deserve unwavering support, and this new direction the President has implemented must show progress. Now is the time to unite as Americans and not as partisan politicians. 
   I look forward to the day when a free and democratic Iraqi government and its people can defend themselves and be a model for others in the Middle East. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (MOTION TO INSTRUCT CONFEREES ON H.R. 2419, FOOD AND ENERGY SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague for yielding, and I really appreciate the good work that was done by my colleague from Tennessee, Zach Wamp, and my colleague from Illinois, John Shimkus, on this issue of what do we do about energy independence, what do we do about ethanol, what do we do about the alternatives that we have. 
   And I think it's important that we continue to point out the problems that we're facing in this country on achieving energy independence and to point out that we are dealing with basically a do-nothing Congress in terms of this issue. We are not dealing with this issue now, and I share the concern that my colleague from Nebraska Mr. Terry expressed about how everything's being blamed on ethanol and George Bush. 
   The Congress likes to blame George Bush for everything, thinking that's the mood of the American people, and the leadership thinks it can deflect any responsibility for the problem that we're seeing now. 
   But I want to point out that right now gasoline is $3.64 a gallon on average. That's 56 percent higher than when Speaker Pelosi was sworn in, and it is 745 days after she promised this: ``Democrats have a commonsense plan to help bring down skyrocketing gas prices.'' And that was when gas was just about $2 a gallon, not $3.64. 
   It's also 948 days after Majority Leader Steny Hoyer said, ``Democrats believe that we can do more for the American people who are struggling to deal with high gas prices.'' 
   And it's 653 days after Democrat Whip Jim Clyburn said, ``House Democrats have a plan to help curb rising gas prices.'' 
   All of these statements were made in 2006 when the Democrats were making statements to fool the American people on what they could do to make things different. 
   Well, they got elected. They're now in leadership and what do we have? Blaming. We're looking for this secret plan that they have. They've never brought it forward, and we're still waiting for it, months, years after they promised it, 2 years actually after Speaker Pelosi promised that they had a plan to do this. 
   We have all the quotes on this and the dates. Again, April 2006, October 2005, July 2006 are the dates, but what they've done is they've raised taxes four times since they've been in office on energy in this country, and what they do then is blame the President. 
   Most people know, I think, that the President can't pass laws. All the President can do is sign them or veto them. It is our responsibility to do something about the way this country is operated in terms of laws. We operate under the rule of law, and it's no coincidence that article I of the Constitution is about the Congress and about our responsibilities, but the Democratic leadership has failed miserably in dealing with those responsibilities. 
   I also agree with Congressman Wamp that this is a national security issue, and that in addition to providing additional supplies of energy, we must do conservation and we must be more efficient. I don't think anybody on our side of the aisle disagrees with that. However, we have to do something to increase the supply. 
   We are dealing with a short-term and mid-term and long-term issue, and part of the problem that we're dealing with is the fact that in 1995 President Clinton vetoed the bill that would have allowed us to drill in ANWR. We have radical environmentalists who basically believe, if all the human beings in the world were to disappear, the world would be a better place because we're the ones to blame for all of the problems that we have in this country and in the world. 
   I don't believe that. I believe the good Lord gave us the resources that we need and the brains to use those resources and extract them. We should be drilling in ANWR. I've been to ANWR, I've been to Alaska, I've seen what happens there. The people who are opposed  to drilling there won't even go to Alaska to see the situation there. I think that's terribly, terribly shortsighted. 
   We could have started doing that many years ago, and we wouldn't be in this situation that we're in now because that, along with other things that we could do, such as drilling in the outer continental shelf, such as creating other resources, such as cellulosic ethanol, would be providing us what we need. 
   And I also agree, again, with Representative Wamp that energy independence means to me we are not going to be dependent on OPEC countries. We don't want to be dependent on people who hate us. We don't want to help fuel the terrorists. One of the things that we're doing is providing money for the terrorists to fight us, and we don't need to be doing that. 
   We do need to conserve. We do need to use every resource available to us in this country, and it is time that the Democrats exert some leadership in this area instead of blaming George Bush and blaming others for the problem that we're facing. They absolutely refuse to take charge of what's happening here. 
   I heard today on a radio program that there is a theory that they want to make the American people as miserable as they possibly can because President Bush is still our President, and they are so good at blaming him for things rather than accepting responsibility for their own actions. I think that has to be one of the most cynical things that anybody could possibly be doing in this country. It's our responsibility here to do everything that we can to help the American people, not do everything that we can to make them miserable. 
   I want to give you a quote from Investors Business Daily from April 29, 2008. The title of the article is ``Congress vs. You,'' and one of the quotes, ``The current Congress, led on the House side by a Speaker who promised a `common sense plan' to cut energy prices 2 years ago, has shown itself to be incompetent and irresponsible.'' 
   Again, we have quote after quote after quote from business journals and from responsible people to show us that the problems that we're facing now are not based in our situation with the war but is based in the incompetence and the do-nothing of this Congress. 
   And again, let me point out, President Clinton vetoed H.R. 2491, the Balanced Budget Act of 1995, which would have allowed environmentally responsible exploration for an estimated 10.4 billion barrels of oil in a tiny sliver of ANWR. Senate Democrats have twice blocked energy exploration in ANWR via the Energy Policy Acts of 2003 and 2005. They have voted ``no'' on the American-Made Energy and Good Jobs Act which would open ANWR to exploration, over and over again. They've said no to new refineries. They've said no to the Energy Policy Act. As others have pointed out, they've said no use to using coal. They've said no to using nuclear. Everything they've done is say no, while Republicans have repeatedly said yes. Yes to Americans who drive to work and school. Yes to gasoline prices that Americans can afford. Yes to American oil. Yes to American common sense in the rules, and yes to an American future of abundant, affordable energy that working people can afford to buy. 
   I don't think the Democrats are going to be able to continue to fool the American people that someone else is responsible for the problem that we're now facing. They're squarely responsible. They continue to say no, Republicans continue to say yes, and I think the American people are going to understand that in the short-term and in the long-term. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (COMPLAINTS DEPARTMENT IS NOT GOOD ENOUGH -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I love my colleague from Missouri, appreciate his leading our prayer breakfast during the week; but he is wrong. This is not a delaying tactic. We have been bringing things out into the open with this bill, with our discussions of the Homeland Security bill, and he knows and we know that the bill does not have to be approved until September because it doesn't go into effect until October so we are not delaying any fence building. 
   The discussions we have been having on the floor have been tremendously enlightening, as the Republicans have fought literally through the night to restore openness to our government. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle have raised these complaints that we are distracting from the real issue. 
   The debate on making earmarks public before we vote on the bill is the real issue. I can think of nothing more important than defending the rights of Members of this House to contest potentially wasteful spending requests. But as we have highlighted for the past couple of days, the majority wants to kill that right and instead replace it  with a complaints department and massive slush funds. A complaints department is not good enough. My constituents, and every American, deserve to know what will be in this bill before we vote on it and telling us to write a letter to the committee when to contest an egregious earmark once they are announced merely amounts to wallpapering over the core issue here. 
   We need openness. And the more my colleagues in the majority fight to keep earmarks secret, the more Americans will see them as the party of hypocrisy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PERMISSION TO FILE SUPPLEMENTAL REPORTS ON H.R. 2641, ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008; H.R. 2643, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008; AND PROVIDING FOR FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 2638, DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, reserving the right to object, I have a very simple question. 
   I think I am a very logical person. I don't understand why we are going to be voting on the water bill and then coming back and voting on the earmarks attached to another bill. That does not seem logical to me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CORPORAL BRADLEY T. ARMS POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this bill to designate the post office located at 1155 Seminole Trail in Charlottesville, Virginia, as the ``Corporal Bradley T. Arms Post Office Building.'' 
   On November 19, 2004, Corporal Bradley Arms was killed during small-arms fire in Anbar province, Iraq. It is only appropriate that we honor this fallen hero for the great sacrifice he made for his country. 
   Before becoming a Marine, Bradley was a student at the University of Georgia and a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity. When he left Georgia before his junior year to serve in the 4th Division of the 4th Combat Engineer Battalion, it was with courage and optimism in his heart. He believed in what he was fighting for, and he wrote to his brothers of the changes he saw every day. He described his desire to influence the future of Iraq telling his friends that, ``as long as we can keep younger generations open minded, then we will win this war.'' 
   His family members, who reside in Charlottesville, Virginia, remember Bradley's kindness and desire to help those who could not help themselves, one of the factors initially inspiring him to join the military. 
   When speaking to his parents shortly before his death, he told them he was confident that God had a plan for him and that he was exactly where he was supposed to be. While he was only 20 years old, Bradley aspired to live the life of a leader and be a positive role model for those around him, and he did just that. 
   Those who knew Bradley recall his honor and enthusiasm, and in recognition of the unparalleled sacrifice he made for his country, it is fitting that we should dedicate this post office to his memory. 
   I would like to thank my respected colleague, Mr. Goode, for introducing this important legislation honoring the memory of a valiant and courageous young man. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (GAS PRICES -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. 
   Gas prices have skyrocketed by more than 50 percent in the 15 months since the new majority took control of Congress. Back in North Carolina, constituents of the Fifth District and over the rest of the State are now paying $1.33 more per gallon for gas than when the Democrats took over. 
   Two years ago, Speaker Pelosi promised the American people a ``commonsense'' plan to lower gasoline prices. We're still trying to figure out what that plan is. House Democrats have not only failed to offer any meaningful solutions, they've pushed policies that will have precisely the opposite effect. 
   This $1.33 Pelosi premium is putting tremendous pressure on the budgets of the hardworking people of North Carolina. As gas prices soar to $3.50 and beyond, I pose this question: How much will the Pelosi premium end up costing average Americans? If this is part of the ``commonsense plan'' to lower gas prices, I'm afraid it isn't working. 
   Middle class families and their increasingly tight budgets need relief, not more broken promises. While House Democrats propose more of the same--tax increases--House Republicans have offered real commonsense solutions to reduce America's dependence on foreign sources of energy, lower gas prices here at home, and invest in all forms of energy to create American jobs and grow our economy.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (NATIONAL FUNERAL DIRECTOR AND MORTICIAN RECOGNITION DAY -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge passage of this resolution expressing support for the designation of a National Funeral Director and Mortician Recognition Day. Mr. Speaker, I think it is critical that we recognize the service that our Nation's funeral directors and morticians provide at one of the most difficult times in a person's life. Death is something that affects us all. It sees no boundaries, nor does it discriminate among social or economic classes. It hits us all in different ways, but one thing is for certain: the time immediately following the death of a loved one is one of the most trying times for anyone. It is during this critical time that funeral directors and morticians from around the country provide our Nation's citizens with the support and guidance necessary to make the right decisions for their beloved ones. 
   This allows for those who are grieving to concentrate on what is most important: supporting family and friends. Funeral directors and morticians have the arduous task of carrying out the final wishes of the deceased. They are involved in all details of the process, everything from arranging for pallbearers to making sure that the correct paperwork is completed to file for appropriate certificates with the State. 
   They are tasked with demonstrating the same compassion with every family they meet, as if that family is the most important family that the funeral director has ever met. 
   It is also important to recognize that most funeral homes are small, family-owned and operated facilities. These individuals work long, irregular hours and contribute to the economic well-being of communities around our Nation. 
   Ultimately, Mr. Speaker, I believe recognizing those in this caring community is long overdue. They are entrusted with the enormous task of making the last hours you will have with the earthly remains of loved ones as peaceful as possible. 
   Mr. Speaker, I ask all Members to join me in supporting this resolution. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SENSE OF HOUSE ESTABLISHING NATIONAL WATERMELON MONTH -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise today in support of H. Res. 578 that will establish a National Watermelon Month. 
   Watermelon has been enjoyed over the years as one of our country's favorite foods. As Mark Twain said, ``It is chief of this world's luxuries, king by the grace of God over all the fruits of the earth. When one has tasted it, he knows what the angels eat.'' 
   According to the United States Agriculture Department statistics, the United States produces 4.2 billion pounds of watermelon annually. This summertime staple ranges in size from 5 pounds to over 40 pounds, and is grown in 49 States. Many towns in the U.S. strive to become the Watermelon Capital of the World; however, Cordele, Georgia has won this title repeatedly by producing the biggest, best, and most abundant watermelons in the country. Watermelon may be eaten in a variety of ways and is also often used to flavor summer drinks, including sweet red wine. 
   And lest anyone accuse us of dealing with a frivolous subject, let me call attention to a serious matter. In a time where we have all become aware of the benefits of good nutrition, it is fortunate watermelon provides an excellent source of vitamin C, vitamin A, vitamin B, and vitamin B1. Additionally, many other beneficial minerals are  contained in watermelon and are shown to help prevent cancer, heart disease, high blood pressure, and a host of other serious diseases. Furthermore, the antioxidant lycopene, found only in a few red plant foods, has been shown to reduce the risk of certain cancers. Because watermelon is such a nutritious, heart-healthy food, the American Heart Association has qualified watermelon for the well-known ``Heart-Check Mark.'' 
   The great joy of eating a slice of watermelon on a hot summer day lives in the memories of almost all Americans. For these nutritious and delicious reasons, I express my support to a National Watermelon Month that will provide the watermelon industry many opportunities to market their product and to educate the public about the health benefits associated with consuming watermelon through various related programs. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SENSE OF HOUSE ESTABLISHING NATIONAL WATERMELON MONTH -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I want to give thanks to all those who grow and produce watermelons and make it possible for all of us to eat them, those who plant, grow, and pick them and get them to markets where we can enjoy them. I urge Members to support the passage of H. Res. 578. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PUBLIC SERVICE RECOGNITION WEEK -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I'm pleased to rise today in support of H. Res. 1073, honoring the millions of dedicated public employees who serve our Nation. Our country would have a difficult time functioning without its innovative, professional, highly trained public service employees. At all levels of government, you will find hardworking  staff implementing policies that make our country prosper and thrive through their contributions. 
   The expertise and work ethic offered by these individuals sets an honorable example for future generations of public employees, as well as those in the private sector. 
   From emergency responders to librarians and educators, public servants span the spectrum of jobs. They keep our country efficient and safe. Beyond the tremendous work of civilian employees, uniformed service personnel and the members of our Armed Forces are those on the front lines in the fight to maintain national security. They provide vital strategic support for our Nation's military, both at home and abroad. Additionally, their tremendous accomplishments in providing support to our 50 States, as well as countries overseas with natural disaster relief, is to be commended. 
   Once again, I congratulate these employees who help make up the fabric of our country and government for performing the challenging and oftentimes thankless jobs with honor and dedication. I appreciate them for moving our country forward, as well as maintaining our safety and security. 
   For these reasons, I express my support of Public Service Recognition Week. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SENSE OF HOUSE ESTABLISHING A NATIONAL LETTER CARRIERS APPRECIATION DAY -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this resolution expressing the sense that there should be established a National Letter Carriers Appreciation Day. 
   The emblematic quote, ``Neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night stays these couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds'' is emblazoned across the front of the Farley Post Office in New York City. It is safe to say we all know this famous, yet unofficial motto of the United States Postal Service. 
   However, we can easily forget how much we appreciate and depend on the dedicated letter carriers of the United States Postal Service. These tireless public servants ensure that over 144 million households receive more than 43 tons of mail each year, equal to 44 percent of the world's mail volume. 
   Letter carriers, also referred to as mailmen or mail carriers, are the public face of the U.S. Postal Service. As the front line, carriers are routinely pressured too move faster, work harder and perform more tasks in a timely manner. In the most stressful of crafts, carriers are watched, timed and inspected more than any other employees. 
   There are three types of mail carriers in the United States, servicing all areas of this broad Nation. City letter carriers, represented by the National Association of Letter Carriers, skillfully navigate the expansive urban landscapes, providing efficient service to the millions of Americans living in densely populated areas. 
   Rural letter carriers, represented by the National Rural Letter Carriers' Association, support the diverse territory surrounding our cities. With increased development of rural areas, the Rural Carrier Craft is the only expanding craft in the Postal Service. 
   The final group of carriers, known as Highway Contract Route Carriers, work expansive routes where population density is less than one customer per mile driven. Driving their own vehicles, these committed carriers travel great distances to ensure timely delivery. 
   Whether they brave bustling urban jungles, constantly changing suburban expanses, or broad rural landscapes, these men and women brave all conditions to provide us with timely and effective mail service. For their efforts, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE FINANCIAL CRISIS -- (House of Representatives - September 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Well, I thank you, Congressman, my colleague from Ohio (Mr. Latta), for yielding time and for stepping in to lead this hour this evening, because we have many of our colleagues who are tied up in meetings right now dealing with the issues that we have been talking about. 
   I heard a little bit of the comments that were made by our colleague from New York (Ms. Clarke) in the previous leadership hour. I have great respect and affection for her, but she made a couple of comments that I have a concern about that I thought it might be useful to make a couple of comments about. We will try to tie the issue of energy in with the issue of the financial situation that we are facing here in the same way. 
   She said a comment that we don't have enough regulations on the banks and that we need more regulations. I think that most Americans now understand that one of the major problems that we have in our country with jobs going overseas is the impact of too many government regulations. 
   We are, in many ways, regulating ourselves out of business in this country. We may have wrong regulations for banks and investment firms, may not have the right regulations for them, but I don't think it's that we don't have enough regulations for them. Again, in many ways, we have too many regulations. 
   I was interested in Congressman Latta's comments about the fact that we had, we know, in talking about the energy issues, and our good friend T. Boone Pickens has done a lot to raise the awareness of the American people by talking about the fact that we transfer out of this country every year $700 billion, the largest transfer of wealth ever in the history of any society. It is a bit ironic that the figure that has been shared with us, that is needed for this proposed bailout, various companies on Wall Street, is $700 billion. 
   You know, it would be really simple if this Democratic Congress had paid attention to what Republicans have been saying for the last 20 months and, say, let us start developing more American-made energy. Let us stop transferring all of that money out of this country to foreign countries, many of which don't like us, many of which are doing everything they can to destroy us. Keep that money here and let us create jobs and wealth in this country. It would be a marvelous thing for us to be able to do. 
   The price of oil spiked up again today, the largest increase, I believe, in 1 day that's ever occurred. Well, we can have energy independence in this country. I am convinced of it, most people are convinced of it. Never before have we seen ourselves so dependent on other nations, and there is no reason for it. 
   What we have to do, though, is use the wonderful resources that the good Lord has given us in this country and use those to our advantage. Many of us have talked over and over again, in the last 2 months, particularly, about the opportunity to drill in ANWR, in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
   In fact, I don't think too many people have mentioned that when that refuge was set aside, there was specifically written into the bill that set it aside language that said part of that property would be used for drilling in the future.     
   That is simply being ignored by the Democratic majority in this House. 
   The other place that we need to be drilling is on the Outer Continental Shelf. Every other nation in the world that has oil and gas resources along their coastlines is tapping those resources for their benefit. We are the only Nation in the world where it is locked up. 
   Now next week the moratorium, the congressional moratorium will expire, and with that we have the opportunity to make that property available for leasing. It would result in huge amounts of money for this country, coming into this country. It is projected to be $2.3 trillion. 
   Now I happen to believe that some of that should be shared with the States, but all of that money can come into this country and we would be able to change our balance of payments once we are able to use those resources and change the whole way we operate in this country. 
   In terms of the bill that is being worked on to be presented to us today or tomorrow, I have some grave concerns about the fact that people are saying there are no alternatives. There are lots of alternatives to simply writing a blank check to the Treasury Department. We could again be cutting the Federal budget. We could be doing lots of other things. We could arrange to bring in the private sector to help with this transition. I know many people think the situation is really dire, but part of our problem is that our colleagues who have preceded us in this Congress in the last several years, many of them have thought that the Federal Government should be doing everything, and we have gotten ourselves into a bind by trying to fund everything in the world out of Washington. If we would pay attention to the Constitution that we are sworn to uphold in this body, then we would narrow dramatically what our scope of practice is here. 
   Last week I spoke on the floor about a bill that we were dealing with that was funding education programs. As I have said on the floor many, many times, it doesn't say anywhere in the Constitution that funding education is a function of the Federal Government. So I believe that we could solve most of our financial crises, and I have to believe we probably are in a crisis right  now because that is what we have been told over and over again, but too many of the things that are brought up here are called crises and they are not, but I have to believe that if we would again pay attention to what the Constitution says and become fiscally responsible, we would not have to go into dire measures to deal with the problems when they come up. 
   And so I want to say, and much of what we are dealing with now has to do with prices having gone up and people not being able to pay their mortgages because the price of gasoline has doubled in the last 2 years. And my colleague said before we can't blame this on the Democratic Congress. I don't have a chart out here right now but I could get one in a hurry that shows that when the Democrats took control of Congress 20 months ago, the price of gasoline started going up, the unemployment rate started going up, the number of foreclosures started going up. It really is difficult to deny that those things are coincidental. 
   Now, I am a social scientist and I am very wary of declaring cause and effect, but the markers are simply too strong to deny the relationship of them. I think it is something that we need to continue to talk about because the bill that was passed last week by the Democrat majority did not respond to the situation that we are facing as far as energy is concerned. In fact, it did just the opposite. It made it even more difficult for us to deal with the high prices of energy in this country. 
   You don't have to take my word for it, the editorial pages of the major newspapers and non-major newspapers of this country agree with us. I will just quote from some of them because they have said what we have said here on the floor. We can be dismissed as being partisan, but most of these newspapers are not partisan newspapers. And, if anything, they are very liberal newspapers saying these things. 
   I am going to quote from the Waco Tribune editorial, September 22, 2008. It is entitled, ``Energy Package Stalls Out: Hastily Passed House Bill Appears Dead in the Water. 
   ``Which is why it was doubling disappointing to survey the energy bill passed by the U.S. House last week. Swiftly engineered by House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi and Democratic allies, it's a limp-wristed approach to pressing energy problems. In seeking to appease everyone, it satisfies no one, offshore drilling enthusiasts and environmentalists included.'' 
   There is an editorial in the Buffalo News, September 22, 2008. ``This way, Democrats can claim to be opening the way to offshore drilling ..... under the restrictions included in the bill, no real drilling is likely to happen.'' 
   An article from the Augusta Chronicle, an editorial, September 22, 2008. ``This just in: Nothing. That's what this Congress came up with after months of high fuel costs and concern over our dependence on foreign oil, and after a summer recess in which Senators and Representatives could have listened to the American people but did not. Congress came up with nothing--a fake energy exploration bill that would only weaken America. House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi, who is devoting her career to blocking new energy for America, allowed a bill that would permit drilling for oil 100 miles offshore, which is prohibitive. Under the bill, coastal States could go 50 miles closer in--but have no incentive to, as the Democrats' bill doesn't share revenues with the States.'' The title is ``They've Blown a Ruse; Congress Fails Yet Again.'' 
   This goes on and on with article after article saying why the bill that was passed was a sham and a joke. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would like to enter into the Record the remainder of these quotes from the newspapers from this week.  
   ``If House Democrats were looking to give Americans relief at the gas pump in the energy legislation passed on Sept. 16, they failed. In a jarring twist, the legislation offers a solution and then negates it. If Americans were hoping for at least half a loaf from this legislation, they were disappointed,'' (``Energy Legislation Less Than Half a Loaf,'' Readinq Eaqle Editorial, September 20, 2008) 
   ``Don't be fooled by House Democrats'' disingenuous bill to lift the federal government's ban on offshore oil drilling. Rather than address a shortage of supply in the face of growing demand, the bill seeks to appease angry voters without harming the Democrats' mission to force America off fossil fuels *.*.* This isn't a bill intended to tap vast untapped reserves. It's a bill intended to give voters the impression that Democrats favor offshore drilling--while maintaining their opposition to it.'' (``Drilling for Political Advantage,'' Northwest Florida Daily News Editorial, September 20, 2008) 
   ``Coming next week from Nancy Pelosi and the House Democrats: legislation that allows oil and gas drilling on the moon! The bill would have the same result as energy legislation passed Tuesday--no increase in domestic oil production--and it certainly wouldn't be any less cynical *.*.* The Democrats' intent here is so transparent it's embarrassing. Americans know the country needs to use all its resources to power the future and speed economic recovery. That includes offshore oil drilling--where the oil is.'' (``Let's Drill for Oil--Where There Isn't Any,'' Las Vegas Review Journal Editorial, September 19, 2008) 
   ``Pelosi, who opposes new drilling for American oil, allowed the vote only because this summer Democrats were on the wrong side of offshore exploration, which seven in 10 Americans favor. Unfortunately, the House-passed bill is nothing more than a fig leaf for Democrats as they prepare to face frustrated voters in November.'' (``Same Old Drill: 'No-Energy' Bill Risks Voter Wrath,'' The Oklahoma Editorial, September 19, 2008) 
   ``The sudden pro-drilling makeover of the Pelosi Democrats has always had an air--a gale, really--of election-year convenience, and the House proved it Tuesday by passing an energy bill that would put any bunko man to shame. This confidence trick won't expand domestic oil-and-gas supplies even a bit *.*.* As Congress runs down the clock for this term, the likelihood of reaching some grand pre-election energy bargain is vanishing fast. The House bill shows that the Pelosi Democrats simply aren't serious about expanding domestic energy supplies.'' (``Pelosi's Drilling Ruse,'' Wall Street Journal Editorial, September 19, 2008) 
   ``Congress may as well close the windows, lock the doors and take a vacation. If the energy bill the House passed Tuesday night is any indication, the lower chamber is already out to lunch *.*.* The House this week finally responded, tweaking the drilling bans just enough to pass a bill that Republican leader John Boehner correctly calls `a hoax.' '' (``Energy Bill is a Dry Well,'' Bend Bulletin Editorial (OR), September 19, 2008) 
   ``On Tuesday, House Democrats made an embarrassingly weak attempt to protect themselves *.*.* Therefore, House leaders produced a ``compromise bill'' and quickly moved it to a vote. It passed along largely party lines, and Democratic incumbents in tight races can claim they voted for drilling. Voters should not fall for that old trick.'' (``Democrats Drill for Political Cover,'' Roanoke Times Editorial, September 18, 2008)  
   I want to say to my colleagues who are going to be here during this hour talking about this issue, we have many, many alternatives to giving a blank check to the Treasury. We have many, many alternatives to the bill that was passed last week by the Democrat House. 
   Republicans know that. Republicans have presented those in the American Energy Act which we have proposed. I want to say that I for one, and I believe my colleagues are pro-American energy, and we are waiting for our Democrat colleagues to leave their anti-American energy stance and join us in being pro-American energy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (REAGAN HIGH SCHOOL RAIDER STUDENT CREDIT UNION -- (House of Representatives - September 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, today I want to congratulate a group of enterprising students and teachers at Ronald Reagan High School in Pfafftown, North Carolina. This month, Reagan High School launched North Carolina's first ever high school student-run credit union. 
   This is truly an historic and groundbreaking achievement. I want to congratulate all the faculty and students at Reagan who have been involved in getting the Raider Student Credit Union off the ground. Working hand in hand with Allegacy Federal Credit Union, they have created a student-run enterprise that should make these students proud. 
   When I recently visited the school to participate in the grand opening of the Raider Student Credit Union, I was so impressed by the students' ambition and work ethic. Many of them are pictured here with their faculty advisers. These students are a driving force in the creation of this unique and educational institution. 
   The new credit union is a part of the Reagan High School's financial literacy program and is a partnership with a local credit union, Allegacy Federal Credit Union. Reagan High School students are operating the branch three days a week during the school's lunch period, offering withdrawal and deposit services to its members. 
   At a time when so many Americans are struggling with family finances and with financial literacy at a low ebb, it is very encouraging to witness this  school's commitment to educating students about good money management. 
   It is exciting to observe the commitment to financial literacy and life skills among the student body at Reagan High School. I am confident that the students who participate in the day-to-day operation of the Raider Student Credit Union will emerge from their high school years better equipped to take on the financial challenges they will face as adults. 
   Equally as important, students will come away with valuable work skills that will serve them as they enter the workplace in the coming years and that will help catapult those who are involved into successful careers. 
   A recent survey on financial literacy found that young people are increasingly undereducated on matters of financial literacy. Financial literacy and financial education are much-needed tonics in an age of maxed-out credit cards and financial stress. 
   Many people find themselves in financial difficulties because they were not educated about their options and various financial opportunities. I am confident that this new credit union will equip the students at Ronald Reagan High School with the financial skills to make wise decisions for their financial futures. 
   I hope that the initiative and innovation that Reagan High School has demonstrated with the Raider Student Credit Union will inspire more schools to follow in their footsteps, not only to start credit unions of their own but to find unique ways to prepare students to take their place in our productive society. 
   With this groundbreaking program, Ronald Reagan High School has helped to set the pace for financial education in North Carolina's high schools. It is important to note that not only is the Raider Student Credit Union the first high school credit union in North Carolina, it is also an investment in the lives and success of this school's students. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HEAVY DUTY HYBRID VEHICLE RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND DEMONSTRATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank my colleague from Texas for yielding. 
   We are talking about the need to improve our ability to use the energy that we have in this country and certainly to get additional energy, and I want to call to the attention of people who are paying attention to this debate something that has come out in the press which we Republicans have been saying for a long time, and it has to do with the no-energy bill that passed the House last week. 
   I am going to hit some high spots, and, Mr. Speaker, then I would like to put the rest of the material into the Record. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Boston Globe op-ed by Jeff Jacoby, 9/21/08, the title, ``Speaker Pelosi's Bill, a Feint of Supporting Offshore Exploration That Would Actually Make Drilling More Difficult.'' 
   ``The bill permanently bans all drilling within 50 miles of the U.S. companies, which just happens to where most of the recoverable oil and gas reserves are.'' 
   The Wall Street Journal editorial, ``Pelosi's Drilling Ruse.'' 
   ``The sudden pro-drilling makeover of the Pelosi Democrats has always had an air, a gale, really, of election-year convenience, and the House proved it Tuesday by passing an energy bill that would put any bunko man to shame. This confidence trick won't expand domestic oil and gas supplies even a bit. The real game was to give vulnerable Democrats political cover by letting them vote for more offshore drilling while making more drilling all but impossible, thus appeasing the party's green wing. The House bill shows that the Pelosi Democrats simply aren't serious about expanding domestic energy supplies.'' Wall Street Journal, 9/19/08. 
   The Oregonian from 9/17/08. This is a column by David Reinhard. ``Nancy Pelosi's Drilling Charade.''  
   ``Pelosi's alternative energy choice? Snake oil. How lame is the energy bill that Speaker Nancy Pelosi had House Democrats pass through the House on Tuesday? Louisiana Senator Mary Landrieu said before the vote that Pelosi's handiwork would be `dead on arrival' in the Senate.'' 
   The title of that article is ``Pelosi's Bill is an Obvious Charade'' and appeared 9/17/08. 
   Some other editorials. The Augusta Chronicle. ``Nothing. That's what this Congress came up with after months of high fuel costs and concern over our dependence on foreign oil and after a summer recess in which Senators and Representatives could have listened to the American people but did not. Congress came up with nothing, a fake energy exploration that would only weaken America.'' 
   The title of that was ``They've Blown a Ruse; Congress Fails Yet Again.'' Augusta Chronicle editorial, September 21, 2008.     
   Another one, the Northwest Florida Daily News editorial, ``Don't be fooled by House Democrats' disingenuous bill to lift the Federal Government's ban on offshore drilling ..... It's a bill intended to give voters the impression that Democrats favor offshore drilling--while maintaining their opposition to it.'' That's in an article called ``Drilling for Political Advantage,'' September 20, 2008. 
   It is refreshing to see that some of our newspaper folks are paying attention to what's going on in the House of Representatives and calling attention to it to the American public. Republicans did that all the month of August, calling attention to the fact that the Democrats refused to do anything to help hard-working Americans by lowering the price of gasoline. The American people deserve better than this. 
   I am going to give one more quote from the Wall Street Journal. ``This confidence trick won't expand domestic oil-and-gas supplies even a bit ..... As Congress runs down the clock for this term, the likelihood of reaching some grand pre-election energy bargain is vanishing fast. The House bill shows that the Pelosi Democrats aren't serious about expanding domestic energy supplies.'' That, again, was in the Wall Street Journal, September 19, 2008. 
   Republicans have a commonsense plan, it's called the American Energy Act. We believe in all of the above, conservation, alternatives, drilling for additional supply, using the money that would come from those leases to provide the alternative.  
   ``Coming next week from Nancy Pelosi and the House Democrats: legislation that allows oil and gas drilling on the moon! The bill would have the same result as energy legislation passed Tuesday--no increase in domestic oil production--and it certainly wouldn't be any less cynical *.*.* The Democrats' intent here is so transparent it's embarrassing. Americans know the country needs to use all its resources to power the future and speed economic recovery. That includes offshore oil drilling--where the oil is.'' (``Let's Drill for Oil--Where There Isn't Any,'' Las Vegas Review Journal Editorial, September 19, 2008) 
   ``Pelosi, who opposes new drilling for American oil, allowed the vote only because this summer Democrats were on the wrong side of offshore exploration, which seven in 10 Americans favor. Unfortunately, the House-passed bill is nothing more than a fig leaf for Democrats as they prepare to face frustrated voters in November.'' (``Same Old Drill: `No-Energy' Bill Risks Voter Wrath,'' The Oklahoman Editorial, September 19, 2008) 
   ``This way, Democrats can claim to be opening the way to offshore drilling *.*.* under the restrictions included in the bill, no real drilling is likely to happen.'' (``Drilling Bill Lacks Substance,'' Buffalo News Editorial, September 22, 2008) 
   ``If House Democrats were looking to give Americans relief at the gas pump in the energy legislation passed on Sept. 16, they failed. In a jarring twist, the legislation offers a solution and then negates it. If Americans were hoping for at least half a loaf from this legislation, they were disappointed.'' (``Energy Legislation Less Than Half a Loaf,'' Reading Eagle Editorial, September 20, 2008)  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE SUCCESSFUL DEMONSTRATION OF THE FIRST INTEGRATED CIRCUIT -- (House of Representatives - September 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank my colleague from Texas for yielding me some time. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it's very appropriate that we are heralding this innovation today. I want to tie this into what we have been trying to do here on the House, what Republicans have been trying to do all this year, and that is to allow us to create more American-made energy by drilling in Alaska and drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf and using that money that we, the Federal Government would get, for the leases, to find new and exciting alternatives for our energy situation, the challenges that we face. I want to highlight again what some newspapers across the country have said about the cynical bill that was passed last week by Speaker Pelosi and the Democrats and show that this is understood all across the country. 
   The New Hampshire Union Leader editorial said, ``Drilling for cover: Pelosi & Co.'s phony bill ..... Democrats in the U.S. House want you to think that they support expanded drilling for oil and natural gas. They don't. Their vote on Tuesday proved it ..... This bill is a total fraud. It gives access to only 12 percent of the estimated oil reserves we are currently not allowed to access. ..... The bill ..... does not allow States to share revenues from oil leases granted there. So States such as California, which faces a huge budget shortfall, have less incentive to give that approval. Democrats who have opposed expanded domestic drilling forever suddenly found themselves on the losing end of a major economic issue after gas prices hit $4 a gallon. Now they are pushing a phony drilling bill to fool the American people into believing that Democrats support new oil exploration.'' 
   In the Honolulu, Hawaii, Star-Bulletin editorial, ``House energy bill falls short of bipartisan solution. Representative Neil Abercrombie's admirable effort to craft a comprehensive energy plan worthy of bipartisan support has been cast aside. Instead, the Democratic House leadership has pushed through a surrogate measure on a  party-line vote that is doomed either in the Senate or by presidential veto, while providing Democrats political cover from voters angry about high gasoline prices. ..... The bill backed by Pelosi, a long-time opponent of offshore drilling, would keep the ban in effect within 50 miles of the shore. It would allow drilling from 50 to 100 miles from the shore if adjacent States gave their approval and would extend it beyond 100 miles with or without such approval. That means that 88 percent of the estimated 18 billion barrels of oil in waters now under drilling bans would remain off limits.'' 
   The Washington Examiner editorial. ``Pelosi's sham editorial bill is an oily dodge.'' It says, ``The reality is this sham legislation effectively keeps the 26 year-old congressional drilling ban in place for 85 percent of all offshore petroleum reserves. Pelosi's measure allows virtually no drilling within 100 miles of U.S. coastlines, yet that's where most of the untapped resources are.     
   ``Incredibly, that's not the worst of it. Pelosi's bill leaves in place the endless delays created via lawsuits filed by rabid environmentalists. U.S. Representative John Shadegg calls this problem the bill's 'litigation loophole.''' 
   The Charleston, West Virginia Daily Mail editorial, ``A Drilling Bill That Does Nothing. When House Democrats came back to Washington, they quickly passed a bill that Democratic Senator Mary Landrieu of oil-producing Louisiana pronounced dead on arrival in the Senate.'' 
   It goes on to say: ``Pelosi's plan is a slap in the face of Americans. Americans need to be as independent of foreign oil as possible. The public sees that. Yet Democrats refuse to pursue policies that will increase American oil production. This position is senseless, and it is especially so in an election year.'' 
   The Los Angeles Times editorial: ``Wasted Energy Bill. House Democrats' push for expanded offshore oil and gas drilling was more about electoral positioning than drilling, aimed at convincing voters that the party shares their pain at the pump.'' 
   And then an op-ed in Forbes, ``Washington's Offshore Snake Oil. On Tuesday, the House Democrats went on the record supporting an offshore drilling bill in a piece of legislation that now heads promptly over to the Senate to die.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, I would like to put the remainder of my comments in the Record.  
   Investor's Business Daily Editorial: ``Drill-Shy Congress ..... House Democrats have passed an `oil drilling bill that bans drilling where most of the oil is ..... On that first day of the new fiscal year, the congressional prohibitions expire on offshore drilling for oil and natural gas, as well as for the oil shale available in Western states. The Democratic-controlled, do-nothing Congress for once is frantic to do something before that deadline hits. In a big election year, with summer gas prices exceeding $4 a gallon, voters won't swallow an extension of the ban. So Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday had the House of Representatives pass legislation she unveiled less than 24 hours earlier, with Republicans blocked from offering amendments ..... But Texas Rep. Jeb Hensarling, the Republicans' Study Committee chairman, correctly called the bill `a sham' with no provision addressing the dire need for construction of new oil refineries, `no clean coal, no energy exploration in arctic Alaska, no nuclear energy and--if you read it--no exploration in the Outer Continental Shelf for energy in their bill.' '' (9/18/08)  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank the gentleman from Ohio. 
   Mr. Chairman, I don't think of ourselves as a ``cast.'' I think of ourselves as the people that we were sent here to be, representatives of the hardworking people of the United States and of our districts. 
   I think that particularly those of us in the Republican Party, most of us have led lives that keep us in touch with our constituents. We haven't spent a lifetime in Washington. We haven't advocated for being in Washington 5 days a week, out of touch with the American public. 
   There are a couple of things that have been said that I think have to be responded to today. They haven't been responded to properly in the last few weeks, I don't think. 
   One is the Clinton-squandered surplus. Let me remind the majority party that the reason we had a surplus during the third and fourth years of the Clinton administration was because there was a fiscally responsible Republican majority in the Congress. You cannot attribute the surplus to a President who has no control except to veto. 
   I want to say something about the waste of money on the war in Iraq. Were we not supporting those brave men and women who are currently serving not just in Iraq, but all over the world keeping us free, we wouldn't have the right to come to this floor and say the things that we say. The Federal Government was formed for the defense of this Nation. That is where money should be spent so we can maintain our freedom. 
   Nobody wants to be at war. I don't want to be at war. The President, I don't believe, wants to be at war. But we are at war because we were attacked. Those people have said repeatedly they want to destroy us; they want to destroy our way of life. We need to spend what we have to spend to keep our freedom. We don't have to raise these budgets by 10 percent to keep doing what we need to do for the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I thank my colleague from Texas for asking me to speak on this bill again. 
   A few minutes ago Mr. Ryan was here and he had his children. When I spoke, I wanted to say something about the fact that they were here and how good it is that we have children on the floor and that we have young people watching what we are doing. They are here to remind us that the actions we take now are so important in the future because we are setting the stage for their future. 
   The majority party made a lot of promises last year on a lot of little issues, in my opinion, but they have done nothing to really fulfill those promises. They particularly have done nothing to deal with the long-term liabilities that we have facing us. We know that pretty soon 70 cents out of every dollar coming into the Federal Treasury is going to be dedicated to Medicaid, Medicare and Social Security or we won't be fulfilling the obligations we have made. So those children are going to be faced with tremendous responsibilities in dealing with those issues, and I think it is important that we acknowledge that. 
   The other thing I want to say is that one of my colleagues talked about wanting to compare notes on having lived in public housing projects. Without realizing it, I think he made one of my points for me. One of the problems that we have in this country is that the Federal Government is funding things it has no business funding. If the States and the localities want to subsidize housing for people, that is one thing. But having the Federal Government absorb that kind of responsibility, in my opinion, is not right. 
   My family didn't grow up in public housing. We never asked for public assistance. We did it on our own. We did without a lot of things, but we did it on our own. And I think we have to look for ways to help the American people learn to live without subsidies from the Federal Government. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HOUSE DEMOCRATS' TOP 100 BROKEN PROMISES -- (House of Representatives - June 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I appreciate this and I appreciate the minority leader asking me to lead this hour tonight. 
   I am going to have next to me here a little poster that I'm going to keep up during my talk. I am joined by a couple of my colleagues that I will recognize in just a few minutes. I have been blessed to be a part of an organization and a group that has come here on the House floor in the last 18 months or so called the Truth Squad, led very ably by our colleague, Dr. Price from Georgia. I think that we will add to our Truth Squad on a regular basis the group that will be talking about the House Democrats' Top 100 Broken Promises. 
   Last fall, the Democrats won a majority in this Congress, in the House and in the Senate, by making many promises to the American people. They have not kept these promises. At the beginning of the 110th Congress, the new majority came to power full of promises for a bipartisan working relationship and a landmark pledge to create ``the most honest, most open and most ethical Congress in history.'' Unfortunately, the first 6 months of Democratic control have been marked by a long string of broken promises. Contrary to the pledges they made to the American people, the leaders of the current majority have delivered a more closed, intellectually dishonest, and ethically ambivalent House of Representatives. By decree instead of open debate, Democrats have attempted to weaken our national defense and legislate retreat from the global war on terror, impose the largest tax increase in American history, propose the most indiscriminate wasteful spending this Congress has seen in decades, craft multi-billion dollar slush funds for secret earmarks, make gas prices worse by raising taxes and increasing regulation, and cut Medicare at a time when our seniors are enjoying large savings in their prescription drug medicines. This is the wrong direction for the American people. 
   I am quoting from a new report that the offices of the Republican leaders have put together and will continue to do that throughout my comments tonight. 
   At the 6-month mark of the new majority, the report takes a look at the House Democrats' top 100 promises and how those broken promises have led to little if any accomplishments of note and a record of failure that has undermined the confidence of the American people in this Congress. As I said earlier, this report complements efforts that have been made by other House Republicans, including the Official Truth Squad, and the Truth Squad has been holding Democrats accountable for their promises. We're going to go over these promises one by one, point them out to the American people and show them what has not happened even though the Democrats made these promises in order to get elected last fall. 
   Let me start with Democratic Promise No. 1: Prepared to Govern and Ready to Lead: ``Democrats are prepared to govern and ready to lead.'' Speaker-Elect Nancy Pelosi, D-CA, in a press release, November 8, 2006. 
   Now, let me tell you what the report is on that promise from the Chicago Tribune. The headline on the article, ``Democrats Promised Way More Than They've Delivered So Far.'' June 21, 2007. And this is the quote from that article: ``Six months after taking over Congress, Democrats find they have accomplished little of their agenda. Perhaps not coincidentally, Congress's job approval rating has reached a dramatic low. If they can't reverse the trend, some Democrats are starting to worry their majority could be short-lived.'' 
   Well, for the benefit of the American people who counted on the promises that the Democrats made and who promised a new bipartisan approach to governing, and with our assistance we could have accomplished a great deal in this 6 months, but because they have refused to uphold their promises, they have not been able to fulfill much, if anything. 
   I would now like to recognize one of my colleagues who's here with us tonight who's going to expand upon some of these promises and talk a little bit about how they have affected the American people and perhaps particularly those in her district, the gentlelady from Florida, Ms. Ginny Brown-Waite. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HOUSE DEMOCRATS' TOP 100 BROKEN PROMISES -- (House of Representatives - June 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank my colleague from Florida, who also represents a fifth district, as I represent the Fifth District in North Carolina. We share our names together and the districts that we represent, and our respective States together. 
   I am going to speak a little bit more from this report, and then I am going to recognize one of my colleagues from Texas. I think it's important to sort of set the stage again for these comments. I am very grateful to my two colleagues for being with me tonight. 
   Democratic Promise No. 2, now, as my colleague from Florida said, there are a lot more than 100 of these promises. We have taken the Top 100. Between now and the next 6 months, we know there are going to be a lot more than that, but we only have time to deal with the first 100. 
   But this was Democratic Promise No. 2 that I want to highlight, ``We will make this the most honest, ethical and open Congress in history,'' Speaker-elect Nancy Pelosi, press conference, November 8, 2006. 
   Broken promises, this is a quote from the Cleveland Plain Dealer editorial, June 10, 2007, entitled, ``A Wake-Up Call for Congress. When Democrats recaptured the House last November after 12 years of the minority, they promised voters `the most honest, the most open and most ethical Congress.' Five months after Nancy Pelosi and her leadership took control, that promise remains unfulfilled.'' 
   With so little in the way of accomplishments, is it any wonder that a new poll released by Gallup last week showed that just 14 percent of Americans have confidence in this Congress, an all-time low. The previous low point for Congress was 18 percent at several points in the time period from 1991 to 1994, the last time Democrats were in power. 
   Indeed, one of the only meaningful accomplishments of this Congress to date has been legislation enacted to fully fund American troops fighting the war on terror, a bill that was carried on the strength of a unified Republican Party. Nearly half of the 39 bills signed into law either named Federal property or billed a road. 
   In sharp contrast, Republicans have spoken with one voice and kept our promise made to the American people 6 months ago to return to our core principles and focus on a smaller, less costly, accountable government. Moreover, a unified Republican Conference has proven formidable, effective and successful in exposing flaws and strengthening Democratic legislation by passing 14 GOP motions to recommit in just 6 months, more than House Democrats were able to accomplish in their 12-year stint in the minority. 
   In many ways, the new Democratic majority has simply picked up where the old Democratic majority left off, a long list of broken promises, little in the way of accomplishments, and dangerously disconnected from the American people. 
   I came to Congress because I wanted to make changes in a positive way and represent the people of my district and the country in a very, very positive way. I think most Members came here for that. It troubles me to see an approval rating of only 14 percent. That is not good for this institution; it is not good for this country. 
   I want us to be able to revive the attitude of the American people toward the Congress. That is why we are holding up these promises that the Democrats have made and not fulfilled that let people know the difference between the Democrats and the Republicans in this body. 
   I would now like to recognize my good colleague from the State of Texas (Mr. Carter), who is going to share some more insights into these broken promises. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HOUSE DEMOCRATS' TOP 100 BROKEN PROMISES -- (House of Representatives - June 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank the gentleman from Texas for coming over and helping shed some light on this subject. As he has pointed out, and our colleague from Florida pointed out, a lot of things have been said, not just in the heat of a campaign, but in very deliberate opportunities, either on the floor of the House or in plans that were drawn up, in press releases. These were not slips of the tongue that were made. 
   And let me point out to anyone who might have just joined us that, in addition to having the Official Truth Squad which has been operating for about 18 months here in the House to correct misstatements that are made by the people on the other side of the aisle so often, a group of us are going to be highlighting this new report which has just come out today, House Democrats Top 100 Broken Promises, put together by the Republican leaders offices here in the House of Representatives. We think it's important to highlight what was promised to the American people last year, this year and what have been the results of those. 
   In fact, while my colleague from Texas was speaking, I was just thinking about the fact that most of our colleagues have left the Chamber tonight, they're on their way home for the 4th of July recess. And I can remember, it has been just a short time ago, that the Democrats promised that they would get all the appropriations bills passed by the 4th of July recess. I'm not sure that that broken promise is even in here. But as of today, we passed 6 out of 12. So half of the appropriations bills got passed. 
   Now, I've even had some of them accuse us of being the problem in not being able to get the bills passed or not being able to go home on Friday afternoon. And I looked at one of my colleagues one day who said that, and I said, wait a minute; who's in charge here? You all blamed us last year for things we didn't accomplish. Now you're blaming us for things you don't accomplish. I find it very interesting that they're very good at doing that. 
   So our goal here is to simply hold them accountable. I think the American people want their government held accountable for what we promise to do. And as I said earlier, I'm very troubled by having come to a House that I revere so much, this House of Representatives, and find that the American people have such a low opinion of us, based partly, I think, on this very situation that we're faced with, promises made, promises broken. 
   I know when I was a child, and I know with my daughter and with my grandchildren, they take promises very, very seriously. And I think the American people take promises very, very seriously. 
   And I know that Republicans did not always live up to their reputation of being fiscal conservatives in the last 4 years, I would say, that they were in control of this House. But I don't think anybody can accuse us of having broken promises the way the Democrats have broken promises. 
   I, like most of my colleagues, want to work with the Democrats on getting things accomplished for the American people. But we find that difficult to do when we know that we can't count on their word. 
   I want to bring up a few more of these promises that have been made and broken that I think are going to be very, very good for the American people to be reminded of. I'm going to go in this report that's highlighted here to Democratic Promise No. 16, lower gasoline prices. I know this is a big concern in my district. It's a big concern to me. Promise: ``Democrats have a plan to lower gas prices. Join Democrats who are working to lower gas prices now.'' That was said by then minority leader Nancy Pelosi, Democrat, California in a press release, April 19, 2006. 
   Broken promise: And I'm going to quote from USA Today, May 22, 2007. ``The average price of gasoline hit $3.218 a gallon, up a stunning 11.5 cents the past week, and just half a penny shy of the inflation adjusted record the government reported. The average is almost certain this week to pass the inflation adjusted high of 3.223 recorded in May 1981 by the Energy Information Administration.'' And that comes from an article entitled Average Gasoline Price Nears 1981 Average. And as I said, it's from USA Today, May 22, 2007. 
   Democrats have been in power for 6 months and gas prices have gone up, not down. 
   Democratic Promise No. 17: Make energy reform a top priority. Promise: ``Democrats promise to hit the ground running on energy issues if they win control of the House or Senate. Responding to voters concerns about $3 a gallon gasoline and the soaring cost of home heating oil, Democratic leaders in both Chambers have ranked energy as one of their top priorities for the next Congress.'' That's from an article entitled Energy Reserving a Front Burner, National Journal, September 9, 2006. 
   Broken promise: And this is a quote from Energy and 
   Environment Daily, May 18, 2007. ``House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat, California, issued a clear directive soon after Democrats took control of Congress this year, promising a comprehensive energy and climate change bill on the House floor by the 4th of July. But with five legislative work weeks to go before that deadline, House Democrats are still left with the task of cobbling together a bill from as many as 11 committees. As for the deadline itself, a House Democratic aide close to the process said the package will not arrive on the House floor before the July 4th recess.'' 
   Well, that aide was certainly correct. We just adjourned today for the 4th of July recess, and we certainly did not have an energy bill to vote on. And 6 months after the Democrats took power in Congress, no comprehensive energy reform has ever been passed by the House, much less sent to the Senate. 
   Democratic Promise No. 18: Make global warming a top priority. Promise: Again from Speaker  Nancy Pelosi. ``The most urgent environmental issue facing us today is global warming.'' And this comes from a piece attributed to the Speaker, a New Direction for America, page 9. 
   Broken promise: June 1, 2007, Congress Daily PM. ``Pelosi says global warming bill might wait until next year. Doesn't sound like it's a very urgent issue if they're going to put it off for a year.'' 
   And the promises and the broken promises related to energy continue to go on and on and on. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HOUSE DEMOCRATS' TOP 100 BROKEN PROMISES -- (House of Representatives - June 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Well, thank you for helping to get on the record these broken promises.     
   I think over the next several months, we will do our best to make sure that we bring them out one after another, and I am sure we are probably going to have another hundred of them to be able to talk about in the next 6 months without any difficulty. 
   I want to talk about fiscal responsibility and taxes a little bit because I think this is something else the American people are quite concerned about. Let me talk about Democratic Promise No. 49, ``Restore Fiscal Responsibility.'' Promise: ``Democrats offer a New Direction which includes fiscal responsibility,'' Democratic Caucus Chairman James Clyburn, press release, October 10, 2006. 
   Promise: ``We will work together to lead the House of Representatives with a commitment to integrity, to civility, and to fiscal responsibility,'' Speaker-Elect Nancy Pelosi, press release, November 16, 2006. 
   Promise: ``It is imperative to the future of our Nation that we come together, Democrats and Republicans, and restore fiscal responsibility,'' Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, Democrat, Maryland, press release, January 23, 2007. 
   Broken promise, and this comes from the Post and Courier in Charleston, South Carolina: ``Clyburn Defends Budget Earmarks,'' February 21, 2007. ``Now Democratic Whip James Clyburn, Democrat, South Carolina, also said he loves appearing in the Citizens Against Government Waste Pig Book. `I want to be there as often as I possibly can for as much money as I possibly can,' he said.'' 
   Folks, these are not conservative publications that are putting these quotes out and calling the Democrats to task. These are what we would generally call liberal newspapers. And there are lots of quotes from the New York Times. I just haven't gotten to them yet. 
   Broken promise relating to the promises I just read: ``Democrats resorted to begging, threatening, and, worst of all, bribing Members for their votes with $21 billion in pork-barrel projects ..... Loading a bill that's supposed to keep our soldiers in bullets, boots, and beans, pork-barrel bribes for congressional colleagues must be a low point in the history of the U.S. Congress. This destroys any pretense Democrats have to being a party of fiscal responsibility and good government.'' This came from the Colorado Springs Gazette editorial, March 27, 2007, in an editorial entitled ``Buying Votes; Military Funding Bill a Stain on Congress.'' 
   Broken Promise: ``It's hard to say which is worse: Democratic leaders offering peanuts for a vote of this magnitude or Members allowing their votes to be bought for peanuts.'' This is from a USA Today editorial, March 22, 2007, entitled ``Pork Has No Place in `Emergency' War Bill.'' 
   These are the kinds of things that make the American public cynical about their elected officials. And it is nothing that the Republicans are saying about the Democrats. It is what the publications of this country are saying about them and showing over and over and over how they have broken their promises. I don't think that we could probably get into a stack up to here of all of the statements that have been made in all of the presses about the broken promises of the Democrats in the first 6 months of their majority reign, but I do think that it is important that we point out some of them so people can make the comparison between what has been said to them and what was promised to them. 
   Democratic Promise No. 57. It is entitled ``Institute `PAYGO' to Control Spending.'' 
   Promise by Speaker  Nancy Pelosi on her Web site: ``Democrats are committed to fiscal responsibility through pay-as-you-go budgets so that our children and grandchildren are not saddled with mountains of debt.'' 
   Broken promise, and again this is not coming from a Republican or conservative publication. This is coming from the San Diego Union Tribune in an editorial dated April 16, 2007. The quote: ``In Washington ..... congressional leaders have imposed pay-as-you-go budget rules that exclude the existing entitlement programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, which dominate Federal spending. So `PAYGO' is really just political cover for new taxes to support new spending.'' 
   Some of the people in the country have gotten this other than the Republican Members of this Congress, and it is very important that these things be published so that people understand what they are doing. 
   Let me give you one more here. Democratic Promise No. 58, ``Adopt Honest Budgets.'' Promise: ``The new Democratic-led House takes America in a new direction, a fiscally responsible budget with the right priorities. Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt is a master of the budget, and he and his team have done an outstanding job reflecting the right American priorities and values,'' Speaker  Nancy Pelosi, press release, March 21, 2007. 
   Broken promise: ``American families don't have the option of using gimmicks to put their family budgets in order. But such rules weren't applied by House Democrats in crafting their budget, which is loaded with trickery that hardly reflects American priorities and values. The House and Senate versions of the budget depend on reserve funds to pay for additional spending. There is only one catch: The reserve funds are empty.'' And the title of this, ``Democrats Banking on Empty Reserves.'' The source, Los Angeles Times, March 27, 2007. Again, hardly a conservative place to come up. 
   We talked earlier about earmarks, and I think that it is very important, again, that we talk a little bit more about the issue of earmarks because I think that was one of the more egregious of the promises that were made and then broken by the Democrats. And had we not called their hand on it 2 weeks ago in this very Chamber with our standing up and protesting what they were doing to keep the earmarks a secret so that the American people could not judge whether the votes we were taking on the bills were votes that we should be taking, but, no, the Democrats had promised transparency, but they weren't about to do it until we made them do it. 
   Democratic Promise No. 68: ``Allow Lawmakers to Challenge Individual Earmarks.'' Promise: ``I think, first of all, with any bill, any provision, whether it is an earmark or not, there should be transparency. So that is what we have said, and I hope you would agree, that before Members vote on a bill, there should be appropriate time for people to be able to read it, that it would be a matter of public record, and if there is an earmark that can stand the scrutiny, then that transparency will give the opportunity for it to be there,'' then Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi in a press conference, March 16, 2006. 
   Broken promise: ``Rather than including specific pet projects, grants, and contracts in legislation as it is being written, Democrats are following an order by House Appropriations Committee chairman to keep the bills free of such earmarks until it is too late for critics to effectively challenge them.'' The title of the article: ``House Democrats Sidestep Their Own Rule to Shield Lawmakers' Pet Projects From Scrutiny,'' Associated Press, June 3, 2007. 
   As I said earlier, we believe that it is our responsibility to bring to the American people a list of these broken promises, the promises made and then the promises broken, because the House Democrats haven't kept their promises to the American people, whether it is the 
   result of inaction or an inability to govern. On issue after issue, the 110th Congress has failed to meet the needs of working families, soldiers battling radical jihadists, senior citizens, and others who are waiting  for Washington to offer serious solutions to the problems facing the country. One look at the polls shows Americans are taking notice and they aren't pleased. 
   But where the majority is failing to lead, Republicans are stepping up. While Democrats broke their promise to operate the House floor in an open, fair, and bipartisan manner, Republicans have found ways to strengthen and expose flaws in Democratic bills. While Democrats broke their promise to lead the most open, honest, and ethical Congress in history, Republicans are pushing for commonsense ethics rules that hold lawmakers to a higher standard. While Democrats broke their promise to deliver transparency in spending taxpayer dollars, Republicans have forced the majority to restore GOP earmark reforms that bring greater transparency and accountability to Federal spending. While Democrats broke their promise to enact legislation that makes America energy independent, Republicans believe we can lower gas prices and reduce our dependence on foreign energy by increasing domestic energy supplies, conserving more, and investing in the technologies of tomorrow. While Democrats broke their promise to be fiscally responsible increasing taxes and spending in tandem, Republicans put forth a plan that balances the Federal budget without raising taxes. And while Democrats broke their promise to make national and homeland security a priority, House Republicans have stood united to provide our troops the resources they need to defeat al Qaeda and radical jihadists and are determined to secure our borders and enforce our immigration laws. 
   While Republicans are working to earn back the majority, Democrats are acting like the entrenched majority they led before, saying one thing to Americans outside of Washington and doing something different inside the Capitol building. 
   Over the next few weeks, every House Democrat must answer this key question: Why haven't you kept your promises? 
   I don't have a Web site available like some of the other groups do. But I can tell you that this publication, ``House Democrats' Top 100 Broken Promises,'' will be available from any Republican Member of this Congress, and I am sure that we can make it available. I am sure it is on a Web site, probably on the Web sites of all of the leadership: Republican Leader John Boehner, Republican Whip Roy Blunt, Conference Chair Adam Putnam, Policy Chairman Thaddeus McCotter, Conference Vice Chair Kay Granger, Conference Secretary John Carter, Chief Deputy Whip Eric Cantor, Rules Committee Ranking Republican David Dreier. My guess is that it can be found on any of their Web sites. I am going to make sure that it is on my Web site in the next few days. 
   But I think, again, it is important that we hold people to the promises that they have made and make sure that the American people don't continue to have this very negative opinion of the Congress of the United States. We want this House to be respected. We want the Senate to be respected. And we need to live up to our promises so that we can get on with the important work that the American people have sent us here to do. 
   This is the people's House, and I am extraordinarily proud to be a Member of this House. And I know I join with other Republicans in saying that we want to bring back respect and integrity to this House so it is not called a House of hypocrisy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE MAJORITY'S BUDGET IS FISCALLY IRRESPONSIBLE -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to the majority's proposed budget. Our country cannot afford this irresponsible budget. It fails to rein in spending and raises the taxes of millions of hardworking middle-class Americans by $683 billion over the next 5 years. 
   Under this budget, North Carolina taxpayers will be hit with an average tax increase of $2,672. As working Americans face a slowing economy, the last thing they need is a job-killing tax hike. 
   The majority budget also increases discretionary spending by $276 billion over the next 5 years. 
   The Federal Government should never spend one penny more of taxpayer money than it needs to. American taxpayers deserve the kind of fiscal accountability that prioritizes balancing the budget without raising taxes on the American people. But this budget is straight from the same old tax-and-spend school of budgeting that Americans simply can't afford. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, there's so much that needs to be said tonight and 1 hour's just not enough time to do it. I think I want to recommend that people read, again, if you haven't read, the book, 1984, because what you've seen exhibited here tonight is a living example of that book, where people distort the facts, they distort the past, and certainly distort the facts. 
   I do have to say a couple of things. We're here tonight to talk about energy and the failed energy policies of the Democratically controlled Congress. The Democrats are in control of the Congress, and they have been since January 2007. And I think it's very, very important that we continue to remind the American people of that. 
   For one thing, my colleagues talked about the 605,000 jobs lost in the last 8 months. Well, I'm here to say that's because the Democrats are in charge of Congress. They want to blame it on the President. The President can't make anything happen about those jobs that are lost. Congress can. And the American people have to hold the Democrats in charge of the Congress accountable.     
   I do want to get on to energy, but I have to make, again, a couple of comments about what was said here tonight. 
   We had a ``Truth Squad'' that used to meet on a regular basis here to correct the misstatements made by our colleagues almost every night, not every night. But I want to bring this Truth Squad back in the form of just me tonight by talking about some of the things, again, that they have said. 
   I really was a little surprised that they focused so much on the war. I think it's really emblematic, again, of their running away from the issue that's most important to the American people, and that is the high price of gasoline and the high price of fuel oil. And they made lots of promises tonight, just like the Democrats did in 2006 when they were running for election and asked the American people to give them the majority. Well, the American people did give them the majority, and every promise they made has been broken. They promised to bring down the price of gasoline. They promised to make this the most open Congress ever, the most bipartisan Congress. Every one of those promises was broken. 
   What we need to be focusing on, and what Republicans have been focusing on for the 20 months that the Democrats have been in control of the Congress, has been the high price of energy and how that price has been going steadily up. And again, I was a little bit amazed tonight that the focus of the group just before me was on the war and on the economy and blaming all of that on somebody else. 
   They talked about how jobs had increased under the Clinton administration. Let me remind the American people that President Clinton had a Democratic Congress for the first 2 years of his administration, and those 2 years were not good for this economy. In fact, they were pretty rotten, 1992 and 1993. The Republicans took control of the House in 1994, in the fall of 1994, and came into office in 1995. Certainly we had a good economy under President Clinton, but it was because the Republicans were in charge of the Congress. 
   The Democrats conveniently leave that little fact out. They give all the credit to President Clinton. It wasn't President Clinton's policies that gave us a great economy. It was the Republican Congress. 
   They talk about the problems with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the failed administration. I think we will see more and more coming out that the problems with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are because of the liberal policies of the Democrats forcing banks, mortgage companies, loan companies to make loans to people who should never have gotten loans. I'm sure there's some greed out there, and I'm sure that there are some characters that we wouldn't like being in the business. But most of it was because of the liberal policies that they put into effect years ago. 
   I do want to say that I appreciate what we have done for our veterans in this session of Congress, but the folks who spoke before us said they thanked the men and women who served us, and I do, too. We're going to be celebrating 9/11 tomorrow, 2001. We'll not celebrate but commemorate what happened that day. And I want to say I'm so grateful to the men and women who are currently serving in our military because they are all volunteers. 
   These folks say they think they've been serving in the wrong places, they've been put in the wrong places. Well, I thank the good Lord many times every day that we have men and women who are willing to serve this country no matter where it is they have to serve because they believe in this country and they will go wherever it is necessary for them to serve. 
   Now again, I want to talk more about energy now because that is what I think has created so many of the problems that we're facing. 
   My colleagues and I were here all during the month of August while the Democrats went on vacation. They took a 5-week vacation. And in fact, they're still on vacation because this week, we're doing practically nothing here in the Congress. We have passed bills like commemorating the Kingdom of Bhutan's participation in the 2008 Smithsonian Folk Life Festival, really important things to be doing while we should be voting on the American Energy Act, the bill that would create all-of-the-above alternatives for us. 
   And I want to recognize now my colleague from Michigan (Mr. Hoekstra) who has served his State and this country so well as a member of the Intelligence Committee, Ranking Member of the Intelligence Committee and formally chairman of the Intelligence Committee, to allow him to offer some comments on the energy issue and to bring his perspective to this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. And I think that what we need to do is take some of the promises that were spewed out here tonight by these folks who had the hour before us and put them next to all of those promises that were made by Speaker Pelosi and majority leader Hoyer in 2006 and say, well, if they delivered on these promises in 2006, then maybe we could believe they will deliver on these promises in the next election. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I think that, even though we haven't seen the bill, I feel certain that I will be able to give that bill the Emperor's New Clothes Award because it will pretend to do something but it will do nothing. So I can just about bet that it's going to do nothing and will deserve the Emperor's New Clothes Award. I have the Emperor's New Clothes Award here. You can see it on the podium here, and so I'm going to give it the Emperor's New Clothes Award. I know that's what it's going to deserve. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you. I appreciate my colleague from Michigan explaining the Michigan situation. I want to make just one comment, and I'm going to ask some of my other colleagues to speak. 
   When the Democrats took over the Congress in 2007, January 2007, we had had 54 straight months of job growth under a Republican-led Congress and a Republican administration. What they refuse to admit is, as soon as they took over the Congress, the price of gasoline started going up, and as the price of gasoline started going up, so did the unemployment rate. There is no denying these facts. They caused this problem. We've been pointing this out week after week. We're finally, we think, getting through that the Democrats are in charge of the Congress, and it is their policies that have created these problems. 
   I want to recognize now my colleague from Pennsylvania I think who has some comments to make about this situation, and we've been suddenly joined by several people. And so I do hope that we'll have a great dialogue here, but with my classmate, my colleague from Pennsylvania, I yield to you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to thank my classmate, Congressman Dent from Pennsylvania, for illuminating this issue from his perspective in Pennsylvania. 
   Now I want to turn it over to a new Member of Congress this year who's been, I think, one of the really bright lights in the Congress, who's one of the most articulate people that we have in the Congress, Congresswoman Michelle Bachmann from the Minneapolis/St. Paul area, which just hosted many of us who were at the Republican National Convention. 
   And I want to say that it was certainly ``Minnesota Nice.'' The folks in Minnesota were fabulous. They treated us very well, very friendly, just like the people in North Carolina. I was extremely pleased to be there, and I want to ask you if you will share some of your perspectives on this issue of energy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Well, I thank my colleague, Congresswoman Bachmann from Minnesota. And I want to say she has boiled it down to a very simple fact. And I say that people in this Congress are either pro American energy or anti American energy. And I think we know the difference in the two groups of folks. 
   The people who don't want us to produce energy in this country are anti American energy. They don't want us to be independent of these foreign countries. It is a difficult thing for me to understand, it's a difficult thing for my constituents to understand. 
   And as our colleague, Mr. Dent from Pennsylvania, said, we want all those alternatives, but they only produce a small part of what we're going to need. Perhaps eventually we will have the technology to produce more of it. But we have to increase our supply of gas and oil and other fossil fuels to get us through this situation that we're in now until we get to those alternatives. And certainly we want them, but they're a small part right now of what we can produce. 
   Other people who have joined us tonight include my great colleague who is on the Constitution Caucus with me and is often here speaking on the Constitution, a former teacher from the State of Utah. Now, former teachers like Congressman Bishop and I often have tendencies to speak for 50 minutes at a time, but since there are other folks here tonight, I'm hoping he is not going to speak for 50 minutes. But he is going to be very eloquent in what he shares with us. 
   I yield to my colleague, Mr. Bishop from Utah. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank my colleague from Utah. He never disappoints. We got not only a very concise discussion of the problem but some wonderful history lessons in the process. 
   I want to now recognize another distinguished and very eloquent person in our Congress, a member of the Republican leadership and chairman of the Republican Policy Committee, THADDEUS MCCOTTER from Michigan. He's our second person from Michigan tonight, but THADDEUS is the kind of person who, when he speaks, everybody listens because we have to listen very closely to make sure we don't miss all of that wit and innuendo that he'll share with us. 
   I now yield to the gentleman from Michigan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Again, I promised you eloquence and you received eloquence. 
   I want to share with you some of the bills that the Democrat Congress has been presenting to us to vote on while they have been ignoring the need to vote on the American Energy Act. 
   How about this one: recognizing the American Highway User Alliance on its 75th anniversary. Now, that was a really important bill for us to be voting on. 
   Or how about what we did this week: condemning the use of television programming by Hamas to indoctrinate hatred, violence, and anti-Semitism toward Israel in young Palestinian children. I am one of the biggest supporters of Israel that you will find, but I don't think that our passing this bill had one wit of difference on Hamas. 
   Another really significant bill: supporting the goals and ideals of National Passport Month. When we should have been dealing with American energy, we were passing that bill. 
   We also passed a bill recognizing the 100th anniversary of the declaration of the Muir Woods National Monument by President Teddy Roosevelt. All of us Republicans are very glad to see Teddy Roosevelt honored because he's the original conservationist. He set the tone for Republicans, and we all know that. But I'm sure Teddy Roosevelt would have rather we had been dealing with the American energy situation and not commemorating something he had done because it was the right thing to do. 
   Two hundred and eighty-two laws have passed in the 110th Congress. Thirty-seven percent of them have named buildings or lands. Thirty-seven percent of them passed unanimously. Another fifteen percent extended the law or made technical corrections to  an existing law. This Congress has done nothing while the American people have suffered. 
   The Democrats' answer to the needs of the American people for lower gas prices is ``drive small cars and wait for the wind.'' Ladies and gentlemen, that should not be the response of this Congress to the needs of the American people. When gasoline prices are $4 a gallon, we need to do something. And as my colleagues have so eloquently expressed here tonight, we can do something. We have it within our power to create all of the energy that we need in this country at very affordable prices. However, this Congress, led by Democrats, controlled by Democrats, having Democrats in charge, have done nothing to act on the needs of the American people. I think one of the most important things we were able to accomplish in August when many of us were here every day talking to the American people on this floor because, as people have said before, the lights were out, C-SPAN was off, the microphones were off--in fact, many of us have had trouble speaking with microphones again because we were on the floor speaking so many times without microphones. We brought the issue to the American people. We let the American people know who was in charge, who is in charge of this Congress. The American people have said we want something done. 
   The Speaker is saying they're going to bring a bill, but as my colleagues have said, we have been here all week. They had the whole month of August. They had 5 weeks to come up with something, in addition this week. No bill yet to vote on. And I will make one little correction to my colleague from Michigan who said we will be working for 15 days from August 1 until January 1. We are not going to be here on Friday; so it's only going to be 14 days. We're being paid to do that. The Democrats are in charge. It is their responsibility. 
   My constituents find it hard to understand how one person can be totally in control of what bills come for a vote in the House, but that is the case. Speaker Pelosi, a San Francisco Democrat, is the person who controls whether we vote on bills on the House floor. And you need to let your interests be known to her and to your Democratic Congressman if that's who you have representing you. 
   Mr. Speaker, I thank the leadership for giving us this hour. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE FAILED ECONOMIC POLICIES OF THE DEMOCRATS -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, when I first came to the Congress, I was appalled at the comments that were being made on the other side. Having come from a legislative position, I was not used to people getting up and telling out-and-out boldfaced untruths. It has been a real learning experience for me, but that has continued particularly in the last 2 years with our colleagues on the other side. They stand up here and try to blame what has happened in this country in the last 2 years on the President of the United States when the Democrats are in charge of the Congress. 
   One of the best things we accomplished during the month of August, when Republicans stood on this floor for 5 weeks while Democrats were on vacation, was call attention to the fact that the Democrats are in charge. The failed economic policies of the past 2 years belong strictly to the Democrats because they have allowed gas prices to double and they have done absolutely nothing. 
   Now they're bringing up a bill they say that's going to do something about gas prices. Well, I think that bill will probably deserve the ``Emperor's New Clothes'' award and somebody is going to have to say that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (MISSISQUOI AND TROUT RIVERS WILD AND SCENIC RIVER STUDY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I thank my colleague from Utah for his great comments. 
   You know, I like Congressman Peter Welch. We are on opposite ends of the aisle philosophically, but he is a nice guy. But I will tell you, I would like to be able to support this issue of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. However, what the American people want are lower gas prices, so they will have a chance to go and visit wild and scenic rivers. Right now, the Democrats have let the gas prices get so high, nobody can go on vacation, nobody can visit these rivers, nobody can do the kinds of things they want to do. 
   But the good news is during the month of August, when Republicans stayed here working while the Democrats went on vacation, we alerted the American people to the fact that we are here trying to bring down prices and that the Democrats are in charge of this Congress. It is not the President of the United States who can take action. He has already taken action. He lifted the moratorium on Outer Continental Shelf drilling. 
   Let me tell you, my colleague just before my colleague from Ohio was giving quotes, but let me give you a quote. Here is the best one, and the one that we are going to come back to over and over and over again. Speaker Pelosi, when she was asking for the majority in this House: ``Democrats have a plan to lower gas prices. Join Democrats, who are working to lower gas prices now.'' 
   What happened? Gas prices have doubled under the Democrats. They can do their best to blame this on the Republicans. But they are in charge, and we are going to continue to inform the American people that Democrats are in charge of the Congress, that they have the ability to do something. 
   Republicans believe in alternatives. Certainly we want solar, wind, hydro, all the alternatives. We believe in conservation. Republicans are the original conservationists. But we cannot get to those places immediately, and we can bring down the price of gasoline by providing additional supply. 
   Democrats think they can ignore and maybe even repeal the basic law of economics, supply and demand. We have to have more supply. They are preventing that. They do not want us to bring down the price of gasoline. Why, is difficult to understand. 
   But I say it is a simple choice for the American people this fall: Are you going to believe the people who are pro-American energy, or are you going to believe the people who are anti-American energy? The Democrats want us to remain dependent on foreign oil. They are not interested in creating additional American energy. And you can see that. 
   Let's talk some more about quotes. Here is another one: ``This leadership team will create the most honest, most open, most ethical Congress in history.'' Speaker-elect Nancy Pelosi. 
   What have we had? Closed rules. The appropriations committees aren't even meeting, because they are scared to death that we will bring up bills that they will have to vote on that they know will pass because their Members are feeling the heat in their districts. Their constituents are hurting too. 
   This is not a Republican issue. It is not a Democratic issue. It is an American issue. We begged our Democratic colleagues to come and join us, vote with us, speak to the American people about this. She knows they will vote for additional American energy. There is no bill on the floor this week. Why? Because her caucus is so divided. The pro-American energy Democrats want to vote on increasing supply. They are not being allowed to do that. 
   Let me speak about the farm bill just a little bit. Ethanol is creating a major problem for us in this country. We are not allowing ethanol to come in here from other countries. We could get it in here cheaper than we are producing it in this country. They will not allow that. That was part of that farm bill that the President vetoed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. CON. RES. 21, CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to thank Mr. Ryan. 
   There is a group of Democrats here who came to be fiscal conservatives. They call themselves the Blue Dogs. They have a budget reform plan, a good budget reform plan. Point 7 of the Blue Dogs 12-point budget reform plan calls for not hiding votes on the debt limit increase. 
   Yet a vote for this conference report is a vote to automatically raise, without a separate vote, the national debt by $850 billion. Where are the Blue Dogs today? They are not here on the floor talking for this. Where will they be when we have this vote? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ELKIN CITY SCHOOLS HONORED FOR NORTH CAROLINA'S HIGHEST GRADUATION RATE -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, today I want to highlight some good news from the Fifth District of North Carolina. 
   Last month, the State of North Carolina recognized Elkin City Schools in Elkin, North Carolina for having the best graduation rate in the entire State. 
   By graduating nine out of ten seniors this past school year, Elkin City Schools is blazing a trail of high academic standards in Northwest North Carolina. 
   Elkin's efforts to make sure its students cross the finish line will pay real dividends for the Elkin community in the future. An outstanding high school graduation rate not only has a stabilizing effect on the social fabric of the community, but it also lays a foundation for young adults ready to take their place as community leaders and productive members of society. 
   Congratulations to Elkin City Schools, its many graduates, their parents, faculty, and staff. You have set the standard for excellence. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING AND RECOGNIZING MEALS ON WHEELS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - April 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 259, honoring and recognizing the work of the Meals on Wheels Association of America, its member senior nutrition programs throughout the country and their annual March For Meals campaigns.     
   The senior nutrition programs, authorized under title III of the Older Americans Act, was designed to address problems of dietary inadequacy and social isolation among older people. During fiscal year 2005, 238,000 meals were served to about 2.8 million people. Fifty-eight percent were served to frail older people living at home. 
   Meals on Wheels is the most recognized name brand of senior nutrition programs. It is the oldest and largest organization in the United States representing those who provide meal services to people in need. Meals on Wheels programs support the independence and well-being of seniors and reduce the isolation experienced by so many elderly. Meals are delivered to seniors' homes, and too frequently the person delivering that meal may be the only person the senior sees all day. The Meals on Wheels program provides human contact and a safety net, particularly for those seniors living alone. 
   Over the last several decades, a substantial growth in the elderly population has increased the demand for meal services. Today, Meals on Wheels and other similar senior nutrition programs that seek to feed the elderly report that 4 out of 10 programs have waiting lists for nutrition services. 
   With one baby boomer turning 60 every 7 seconds, the demand for nutrition services will continue to increase. According to a Census Bureau projection, the elderly population in the United States will more than double between now and the year 2050 to 80 million people. It is clear that the work of Meals on Wheels will continue well into the future. 
   Today, we also recognize the March For Meals campaign which takes place each year during the month of March. This campaign works to commemorate the enactment of the Older Americans Act. It is also a time for Meals on Wheels programs to focus on fundraising, awareness and volunteer recruitment. 
   Even though March has passed, today I stand in support of this resolution and the Meal on Wheels program. I would like to thank Mr. LoBiondo for offering this resolution, and I ask for my colleagues' support. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (EXPRESSING SYMPATHY TO VICTIMS AND FAMILIES OF COLORADO SHOOTINGS -- (House of Representatives - April 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise today to urge passage of this resolution recognizing the tragedy that befell the communities of Colorado Springs and Arvada, Colorado. 
   Mr. Speaker, this resolution seeks to take a moment to reflect on the impact one man's senseless acts of violence can have on a community, a State and a Nation. On an early Sunday morning, a man entered the New Life Church and proceeded to open fire. Tragically, the lives of Tiffany Johnson and Philip Crouse were taken. They were both staff members of the Youth With A Mission Center, which educates individuals to be evangelical missionaries overseas. Two other staff members were seriously injured as well, Dan Griebenow and Charlie Blanch. 
   This a place of peace where dedicated young men and women are educated to be Christian missionaries. What happened there on that cold Sunday morning was a true travesty for those victims and the community that surrounds them. 
   Later that afternoon at approximately 1 p.m., the same individual who opened fire at the Youth With A Mission facility entered the grounds of the New Life Christian Church and fatally shot two teenagers, Stephanie and Rachel Works. The shooter also shot and seriously injured their father, David Works, in the parking lot before he proceeded into the church. Two others, Judy Purcell and Larry Bourbannais, were also injured that day. Fortunately for the communities of Colorado Springs and Arvada, Jeanne Assam, a volunteer private security guard, performed heroically that afternoon and engaged the shooter when he entered the church's east entrance. 
   Jeanne Assam was a former Minneapolis police officer and was licensed to carry a firearm. She used her education and performed admirably to protect not only those inside the church, but those in the surrounding area as well. She was able to slow the gunman down, which ultimately led to the gunman taking his own life. 
   One shudders to think of the terror that could have ensued had the shooter been able to continue unabated. The shooter was later identified as 24-year-old Matthew Murray. There is only one word that can describe the acts of Jeanne Assam on that day--heroic. 
   The quick response by the security team at New Life Christian Church, who quickly moved to step up security after hearing the news of the initial shooting in Arvada also deserves praise. In addition, we must take a moment to thank the first responders on that day. The El Paso County Sheriff's Office, the Colorado Springs Police Department, the Colorado Springs Fire Department, the Colorado Springs SWAT team, Federal authorities, and medical professionals all played a role in quelling what could have been an even larger massacre. 
   Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in support of this important remembrance. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (NATIONAL GLANZMANN'S THROMBASTHENIA AWARENESS DAY -- (House of Representatives - April 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this resolution urging the designation of a National Glanzmann's Thrombasthenia Awareness Day. Discovered in Switzerland in 1918, Glanzmann's thrombasthenia, otherwise known as GT, is a rare and serious blood disorder that affects men, women, and children of all ages across the globe. The disease affects the ability of blood platelets to form, or clot, around the site of a broken blood vessel due to a deficiency of a specific protein on the surface of the platelet. Since the blood is unable to clot normally, those who suffer from GT are faced with uncontrollable, potentially life-threatening blood loss and severe bruising. 
   A very rare and little known hereditary disease, GT has severe emotional and physical effects on those who suffer from it. Children with GT often find themselves socially isolated as they are unable to participate in normal childhood activities such as sports or physically active play. 
   There is no cure for this disease, and because it is so rare, there is little information on the symptoms and treatments. It is important that we support valuable organizations such as the Glanzmann's Thrombasthenia Research Foundation, founded by Helen P. Smith in 2001, in their effort to educate the public, promote awareness, and fund research of this serious disease.     
   I urge my colleagues to join me in support of this resolution that seeks to raise the awareness of this serious, emotionally damaging and potentially life-threatening disease. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR DESIGNATION OF APRIL 2008 AS NATIONAL CHILD ABUSE PREVENTION MONTH -- (House of Representatives - April 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 1097, expressing support for the designation of the month of April, 2008, as National Child Abuse Prevention Month to bring attention to the tragic circumstances that face some of our Nation's children on a daily basis and to underscore our commitment to preventing child abuse and neglect so that all children can live in safety and security. 
   Child abuse comes in many forms, physical abuse, neglect, sexual abuse and emotional abuse. Too often, these forms of abuse are found in combination with one another. Approximately 905,000 children were found to be victims of child abuse or neglect in 2006. Nearly 80 percent of the perpetrators were parents of the victims. 
   Last year, it was estimated that the total annual cost of child abuse in the United States was nearly $104 billion. This represents more than $33 billion in direct costs of child maltreatment, including judicial, foster care, law enforcement and health system responses and $70 billion in indirect costs including long-term economic effects. 
   Each of us can make a difference in the prevention of child abuse by understanding the causes of child abuse, by learning to identify the warning signs that a child is being abused, by reporting any known or suspected case of child abuse, by being a friend to a child or a parent in need and by alerting others to the problem. 
   I want to thank the folks in Wilkes County who invited me to attend a vigil at Our House in Wilkes County which provides services to abused children there. Every year, the staff and volunteers of Our House hold a vigil to raise awareness of this terrible problem in our area of the country. I know that other counties in the Fifth District of North Carolina, which I represent, also have worked to raise awareness. I want to particularly commend them for doing it. 
   In 1974, the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act was first enacted to create a focal point in the Federal Government to identify and address issues of child abuse and neglect and to support effective methods of prevention and treatment. Through this act, States receive grants to help with their child protective service functions, improve investigation and prosecution of child maltreatment and to assist community-based family resource and support services. 
   Today, we recognize that child abuse and neglect are preventable through the efforts of schools, neighbors, families and the community. Child Abuse Prevention Month provides us all with an opportunity to work together to keep children safe and to provide the support that families need to stay together and raise children and youth to be happy, secure and stable adults. 
   In 1983, April was first proclaimed as National Child Abuse Prevention Month. Since that time, every April, child abuse and neglect awareness activities are promoted across the country. That is why I stand in support of this resolution, and I ask for my colleagues' support. 
   I reserve the balance of my time, Mr. Speaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (NO RESULTS FROM EMPTY PROMISES OF MAJORITY -- (House of Representatives - April 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, a little over a year ago, when the majority party was campaigning to take control of this House, they promised a lot of change, and they made a lot of promises about what they were going to do about gas prices and energy costs and everything else in this country. 
   However, what has that promised change brought us? It has brought us a  43 percent increase in gasoline prices. The price of groceries is going up rapidly. 
   We have seen no results from these empty promises. This is a do-nothing Congress. They accused the Republicans of being a do-nothing Congress. 
   This is a do-something Congress involved with a do-nothing because what they have done has been detrimental to our country. They have caused the price of gas to go up 43 percent, the price of groceries to go up. 
   We need a real energy policy, not a lot of empty promises. I call on the majority to let us see some results from those empty promises. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CONTRACTING AND TAX ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4881, the Contracting and Tax Accountability Act of 2008. 
   This legislation would subject any firm that has a seriously delinquent tax debt, defined to mean any time the IRS has filed a tax lien against the company, to a debarment proceeding with the aim of preventing the firm from obtaining a government contract or grant. 
   Potential contractors and grant recipients must certify that the company does not have any seriously delinquent tax debt in order to be eligible for Federal grants and contracts. 
   This might sound like a reasonable requirement, and it is. In fact, the administration is currently finalizing a regulation that would require Federal contractors and grantees to certify, among other things, that they have not been notified by the IRS of liability for delinquent taxes. The proposed regulation would also include the failure to pay taxes as a specific cause for a company to be debarred from receiving Federal contracts. Since the issue addressed in this legislation is already being addressed through the regulatory process, it is unclear to us whether this legislation is necessary. Nevertheless, we will not object to it. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PLAIN LANGUAGE IN GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3548, the Plain Language in Government Communications Act of 2008. This legislation would enhance citizen access to government information services by promoting the use of ``plain language'' in government documents issued to the public. 
   Writing in plain language doesn't mean writing only about simple things. It means writing well about anything the government writes about. 
   During committee consideration of this legislation, Republican amendments were adopted that further the cause of requiring the use of plain language. Mr. Sali succeeded in revising the bill to require plain language be used in preparing collections of information, primarily tax documents, as well as regulations issued by Federal agencies. In addition, the committee accepted an amendment I offered to promote the use of the English language in documents. 
   I have been a consistent advocate in Congress of improving government accountability, responsiveness, and transparency. I believe this legislation is consistent with these efforts. 
   I urge my colleagues to support the Plain Language in Government Communications Act of 2008. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to my colleague from Idaho (Mr. Sali). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CELEBRATING THE RETIREMENT OF REV. ROGER BAKER -- (House of Representatives - January 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a faithful pastor who served a growing and vibrant church for 32 years. Rev. Roger Baker, who is retiring from ministry at Calvary Baptist Church in King, North Carolina, has given his life to ministry in the church and the surrounding community. 
   When my friend Rev. Baker first began pastoring at Calvary Baptist 32 years ago, it was a congregation of about 75. Today, the church has grown to nearly 900 under his astute leadership and pastoral care. 
   During Rev. Baker's tenure, the church started a local Christian school, Calvary Christian School; and he also founded a seminary to educate the next generation of church leadership. 
   As president of Calvary Baptist Bible College, Rev. Baker has helped to equip many for the role of pastoral teaching and care. He will continue to serve as a teaching professor at the seminary after his retirement. 
   Men like Rev. Baker do not often come along. His faithful witness in the community and sterling Christian testimony have touched countless lives as he strives to spread the good news. This man is not only a great pastor; he is a faithful Christian. 
   I congratulate Rev. Baker on his 32 years of service and wish him the very best in his kingdom work during retirement. The people of Calvary Baptist have been fortunate to call him their own. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (NO PLAN FROM DEMOCRATS -- (House of Representatives - January 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues on the other side of the aisle for their plan for winning the war on terror and for the current situation in Iraq. The only things that we have heard from Democrats has been criticism. 
   I also want to point out an article in today's Wall Street Journal and insert the entire article in the Record. The article is entitled, ``Progress in Baghdad''; and it says, Capitol Hill has probably been too busy running for political cover to notice, but the last few days in Iraq have actually featured good news, as the government seems to be making some progress on key political and security issues. 
   And it ends with, the Bush administration has itself made many mistakes trying to micromanage Iraq's political development, but it now seems to understand that it is fated to deal with the Shiite-led government it has. Congressmen who are sincere in wanting to take the Iraq issue off the table in 2008 could help by showing a similar combination of resolve and humility. 
   I think we need the resolve and humility to say that we are there for victory and that failure is not an option.  
   Progress in Baghdad 
   Capitol Hill has probably been too busy running for political cover to notice. But the last few days in Iraq have actually featured good news, as the government seems to be making some progress on key political and security issues. 
   One step forward is that Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki has won parliamentary backing for his Baghdad security plan. This means the elected representatives of Iraq's Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds remain capable of compromise and are willing to give the new strategy a chance to work. 
   There's also evidence that the Baghdad plan is having an effect. Yes, al Qaeda bombs targeted the Shiite Ashoura holiday as expected. But there are also widespread reports of Sunni jihadists fleeing the capital in anticipation of a crackdown. Prime Minister Maliki has already started moving against Shiite militias, which might explain an apparent drop in sectarian violence. No one should get overconfident, but clearly the bad guys are taking the joint U.S.-Iraqi effort to pacify the capital seriously. Meanwhile, the weekend saw an encouraging performance by the Iraqi security forces who took control of the Najaf area only about a month ago. Acting on their own intelligence, Iraqi police  and a battalion from the Eighth Army Division confronted a radical Shiite sect calling themselves the Soldiers of Heaven who had reportedly planned to assassinate mainstream Shiite clerics, including the moderate Grand Ayatollah Ali Sistani. 
   Some observers are trying to spin this battle as a defeat for the government, because the first Iraqi units on the scene had to call for reinforcements and for American air power. But the fact that Iraqi forces were able to pre-empt the attack on Najaf before it began, and that everyone involved was able to coordinate the operation and soundly defeat the enemy makes it sound like a success to us. Hundreds of the insurgents were killed, compared to a handful of Iraqi and U.S. troops. This may well be a model for how U.S. troops might play a supporting role down the road--assuming Washington gives them a chance to get Baghdad under control first. 
   For the moment at least, Iraq seems to be inching in the right direction. After a week of Western lamentations about the gracelessness of the Saddam hanging, it became clear that the primary effect of the execution was to enhance Prime Minister Maliki's stature in Iraq. Mr. Maliki, in turn, is using that political capital. The last thing he needs is to have his efforts undermined by votes of no-confidence in Washington--or meddling by Congressmen with ``benchmarks'' who pretend to know better than he does how to deal with the most difficult issues, such as how best to marginalize Moqtada al-Sadr. 
   The Bush Administration has itself made many mistakes trying to micromanage Iraq's political development, but it now seems to understand that it is fated to deal with the Shiite-led government it has. Congressmen who are sincere in wanting to take the Iraq issue off the table in 2008 could help by showing a similar combination of resolve and humility. 
   Let's unite. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Well, I thank my colleagues tonight for being here on the  floor, and especially, I thank my colleague from Georgia for leading this Special Order. 
   We've talked a little bit about the Constitution; we've touched on it. Our colleague from Tennessee is bringing wonderful energy to this issue of energy tonight, and I am so grateful for his being here because, as he said, he generally is not a very partisan person. He doesn't come here and talk very vociferously about issues that are before the House. He's doing it now, and you can tell he is really is passionate about this because this is a passionate issue for many of us. 
   Today is Constitution Day, and I think it's very important that we highlight some issues related to the Constitution as they relate to what happened on this floor last night and as to what has been pointed out tonight. 
   We have not followed the Constitution in the way that we should have followed it. We haven't followed the way the House has operated in the past. We haven't even followed the promises that were made by the Speaker in 2006 when she said this would be the most open Congress, that this would be the most fair Congress. Bills should go to committee. They should come to the floor and be amendable, but none of that has happened. 
   One of the things that bothers me the most about our not dealing with issues as they relate to the Constitution is how the Congress is trying to blame our President for everything bad that has happened in the last 2 years. 
   When I go out and talk to schoolchildren especially, I point out to them that the first article in the Constitution, article I, is about the Congress. That is not an accident. The founders wanted the Congress to be the strongest part of our government. We have three branches of government--the legislative, the executive and the judicial branches. They intended the Congress to be the most important. We're the ones who pass the laws. We're the ones who can make things happen in this country and who can make things happen in a hurry, but what the Democrats, who are in charge of the Congress and have been for the past 20 months, want to keep doing is saying, ``It's not our fault that these things are happening. It's not our fault.'' 
   Ladies and gentlemen, it is their fault, and the blame has to be laid solely at their feet. Not only are they not taking on the responsibility to create more American-made energy, which will help every American in this country, but they seem to be almost anti American energy. We have been proposing that we be pro American energy. They are not. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. As, I think, most people in this country know, it is the House of Representatives. The founders specifically gave the power to the House of Representatives to start revenue bills. It is, of course, the House and the Senate which must vote on all bills, but it is the House of Representatives that must begin revenue bills. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. The President does not have the power to wage war without the consent of the Congress, and he could not fund any effort. He couldn't fund any department in the Federal Government without the consent of the Congress. 
   So, again, the founders set it up that way. They wanted the Congress to be the most powerful branch of the government, and the Congress is the most powerful branch. 
   What has happened in the last 20 months since the Democrats have been in charge of the Congress? Let's look at the unemployment rate. It has gone up. It was very, very low in January of '07. It has gone up over a percentage point, in fact, about a percentage point and a half since the Democrats have been in control. Look at the price of gasoline and how it has gone up since they have been in charge. 
   What were they doing as these gas prices were going up? Voting on bills like declaring National Passport Month, National Train Day, Great Cats and Rare Canids Act where we appropriated either $20 million or $50 million to other countries to help them identify rare cats in their countries. Then the favorite of most people is the Monkey Safety Act, which also appropriated, I think, about $50 million to teach people how to handle monkeys safely in this country. 
   The Congress, the Democrat-controlled Congress, has abrogated its responsibility for taking care of this situation. It has turned its back on the average American, and that is a shame. 
   Last night, what happened was that a sham bill passed in this House with very little support from our side and with many Democrats voting against it. That was nothing but cover for Democrats. Even the media here in Washington, D.C., the liberal media, has said that. It is only so that Democrats can go home and say, ``I voted for more drilling.'' That's what the Republicans have been asking for, and I voted for more drilling. 
   What's even worse is that 24 of the Democrats who had signed onto this bipartisan bill, introduced by Representative John Peterson, who is a Republican from Pennsylvania, and Representative Neil Abercrombie, who is a Democrat from Hawaii--the bill is called the Peterson-Abercrombie bill. We offered that as an alternative. It's not a perfect bill. There are a lot of problems with it, but we thought surely the 39 Democrats who were cosponsors of that bill would have voted for it. No. Only 15 of them voted for that bill, and 24 of them voted against it, but they tell their constituents that they are working hard to bring an alternative to the situation. I just want to quote a couple of them on what they said. 
   Representative Nancy Boyda, Democrat of Kansas, a freshman here, was a cosponsor of the Peterson-Abercrombie bill, but she voted against it when given the opportunity last night. She said in a press release, though, on the 4th of September: 
   ``I've been working with a large bipartisan group of representatives to develop a comprehensive, commonsense energy bill. Our Peterson-Abercrombie bill will provide sorely needed relief for Kansas families. It will help create energy independence for America and millions of jobs to help stabilize our struggling economy,'' press release, Representative Nancy Boyda, Democrat of Kansas. 
   Now, what our Democratic colleagues think they can do is to tell their constituents one thing and do another on the floor of the House. We are not going to let that happen. We are going to tell the American people what is going on here. Speaker Pelosi has said it will be okay if these people campaign against her and blame her for not having energy legislation. They can go out and promise it, but they don't have to do anything. 
   We have Representative Baron Hill, Democrat of Indiana. This is in a press release from his office on the 14th of August 2008 while we were in the midst of being up here every day, telling the American people what the Democrats were doing. This is what his press release said: 
   `` `I hope this bipartisan Peterson-Abercrombie bill will, indeed, be brought to the floor for a vote when we return to Washington in September,' Hill said. `It would provide immediate relief while also bolstering the development of new energy sources in order to move this country closer to energy independence,' '' Representative Baron Hill. 
   You know, folks, they were right about the Peterson-Abercrombie bill. It would have helped, but that's not what they voted for last night. They voted for a bill that creates an illusion of doing something and does absolutely nothing. 
   The last one I'm going to quote is a newspaper article that talks about Representative Steve Kagen, also a  freshman, who is a Democrat from Wisconsin. This is a newspaper article from the Herald Times in Wisconsin on 9/13/08: 
   ``Kagen, who signed onto the bill Tuesday, said the Abercrombie-Peterson bill `really is a comprehensive energy policy and a roadmap forward. That bill has the balance in investing in renewable sources. It raises royalty fees from those who are drilling, and it doesn't limit drilling to four or five States.' '' The title of that article was ``Congress Sitting on Energy Hot Seat.'' 
   Ladies and gentlemen, we have to hold people accountable for doing what they promise to do in this country.     
   Republicans were held accountable in 2006, not just for not doing what they had promised. What we were held responsible for was being part of a party that has a philosophy that we stand for some things. We need to hold these people responsible. 
   The other thing that I think needs to be pointed out, and this was pointed out during the month of August several times, but not in exactly this way; but the Democrats, while letting average working Americans, all Americans, actually, suffer from the high price of gasoline, but particularly our working friends who are paying high prices and struggling, struggling every day to make ends meet and make it in this country, obey the law and do what is right, the Democrats came to the Congress saying we are going to work every day. We think the Republicans haven't done all they should do. We are going to work every day. But from the first of August until the end of December they plan to work 14 days. Fourteen days, ladies and gentlemen. 
   While you are suffering, wondering how you are going to pay your bills, they are going to go home the end of next week after having worked this week, 4 days last week, maybe only 4 days this week. It may end up being only 13 days. It may end up being only 12 days. They are going to go home and leave you wondering how are you going to pay the bills, pay for the gasoline and deal with the challenges that face you and your family. 
   That is unacceptable to us as Republicans. That should be unacceptable to every American. We must hold them accountable, and we must make them stay here until we have an energy policy that will bring relief to the American people. 
   Now I want to yield back to my colleague from Georgia, Mr. Westmoreland. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (MICKEY MANTLE POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise today in support of S. 171, to rename the post office in Commerce, Oklahoma, for the town's most famous citizen, Mickey Charles Mantle. 
   Mickey Mantle was a true American hero. He was an outfielder for the New York Yankees, a first-ballot Hall of Famer with 536 career home runs. When he hit them, they flew. 
   He hit the longest home run ever at the old Yankee Stadium--it hit the top facade in right field--and the longest ever at Washington's old Griffith Stadium and at Detroit's old Tiger Stadium. The term ``tape-measure home run'' was invented when the Yankees' traveling secretary used a tape to measure the Griffith Stadium blast at 565 feet. 
   Named for Mickey Cochrane, another baseball Hall of Famer--Mantle often joked that he was glad his father didn't know Cochrane's real first name was Gordon--the Mick was a three-sport star at Commerce High. A New York Yankees' scout who came to see a teammate play in a semipro game saw Mantle hit titanic home runs from both sides of the plate and tried to sign him on the spot, only to find that he was still 16, still in high school, and ineligible for pro ball. The scout told Mickey he would return the day he graduated from high school, and he did. 
   Four years later the Mick was in right field in Yankee Stadium, and Joe DiMaggio was patrolling center field. Both took off to run down a scorched liner to right field. As they arrived at the ball, DiMaggio called off Mantle. Mantle tried to stop, but caught his cleats in a sprinkler head. He went down ``like he was shot,'' said one observer. 
   In many ways, this blazing fast, preternaturally powerful athlete was never the same. He went on to win a Triple Crown in 1956, claim three American League Most Valuable Player awards, make 16 All-Star teams and win seven world championships. He still holds the records for most home runs, RBIs, runs, walks, extra-base hits and total bases in the World Series. 
   As great as he was, the question that dogs his legacy is, what if? What if he had stayed healthy? What if he had never contracted osteomyelitis, a crippling bone disease in high school? What if he had never been plagued by other diseases and injuries, including alcoholism? 
   He is number 17 on the list of the greatest 100 players of all time. Where might he have ended up otherwise? Who in baseball history might today be considered above him? 
   The Mick was not a great businessman, and many of the ventures he funded with his top salaries for the Yankees proved unsuccessful. But he made another fortune in the memorabilia market. His signature and artifacts fetched sums second only to those of Babe Ruth. 
   Why? He moved with a breathtaking grace. He was that rarest of commodities, the fastest and most powerful guy on the team. Moreover, he smiled. He connected with fans. He looked like  he was having fun. Even though he was as far culturally from a New Yorker as he could be, the Yankee faithful embraced him. He later teamed with fellow Oklahoman and Yankee Bobby Murcer to raise money for victims of the Oklahoma City bombing. 
   He led an imperfect life, but he did what he could to redeem himself. He went into treatment and later turned to faith to deal with his increasing infirmities. When he died on August 13, 1995, in Dallas, Bob Costas, the famous sportscaster, gave his eulogy. Costas described him as ``a fragile hero to whom we had an emotional attachment so strong and lasting that it defied logic. In his last year of his life, Mickey Mantle, always so hard on himself, finally came to accept and appreciate the distinction between a role model and a hero. The first, he often was not. The second, he always will be.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (MICKEY MANTLE POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, all of my family were Yankee fans. My father and uncles and all of the family were strong Yankee fans. They were born and raised in New York City. They were Yankee fans and certainly Mickey Mantle fans. I know they would be pleased to see me presenting this bill on the floor today. 
   But I know they also would be upset with me if I did not talk about the problems we are facing in this country related to gas prices because most of my family, as they got older, moved out of New York City and moved out into rural areas, where they didn't have access any longer to mass transit as they had had when they lived in New York City, and depended on having automobiles and having to drive and pay for gasoline. 
   What we are seeing now in this country is a very big burden on people who live in rural areas such as my district where most of the people are without access to mass transit. 
   I want to talk a little bit about the failure of the Democrats in charge of this Congress for not doing anything to bring down the price of gasoline. Speaker Pelosi in 2006 promised that the Democrats had a commonsense plan to bring down the price of gasoline. We haven't seen that commonsense plan. The bill that passed yesterday was a sham and an illusion. It was a way to simply give cover to Democrats who are in tough reelection situations. I think it is a real shame. Not only are we hurting people who live in rural areas, but we are hurting the baseball fans who would like to be able to go to baseball games and be able to celebrate this wonderful game we are talking about when we honor Mickey Mantle. 
   One of the things that was wrong with the bill that passed, there was nothing there to be able to stop all of the legal challenges by radical environmental groups that are blocking or significantly delaying oil leases and production. We now know from having done some investigation that radical environmentalists are challenging every single lease that is being awarded to be able to bring more gas and oil online. 
   In February 2008, the administration issued 487 leases in the Chukchi Sea sale 193, and every single one of those has been challenged under the National Environmental Policy Act and the Endangered Species Act. 
   In addition, for 2007-2012, there was a 5-year OCS leasing program, and every single one of those leases has been challenged. 
   There are 748 leases in the Chukchi-Beaufort Seas which have been challenged. 
   What Republicans wanted to do, and we had absolutely no opportunity to be able to do so, was to bring amendments to these bills, another promise broken by the Democrats in charge of the Congress. 
   We were told when the Democrats took over that we would be in the most open, most bipartisan Congress in the history of the Congress. All bills would be brought through committee, all bills would be allowed to be amended on the floor. So far that has been a hollow promise. The so-called energy bill that was passed yesterday was never brought to committee. It should have been assigned to about eight different committees. It didn't go to a single one. It was brought straight to the floor under a closed rule and no amendments were allowed. 
   Had we been allowed to offer amendments, one of the things we would have done would have been to offer an amendment that would have allowed for lawsuits to be filed. We don't want to stop the judicial process. However, we think that it should be done in a way that will expedite these leases. 
   We keep hearing from the Democrats that the oil companies have millions of acres under lease that they are not doing. The reason is their good friends, the trial lawyers and the radical environmentalists, are stopping the leases from being exercised by bringing lawsuit after lawsuit after lawsuit. 
   We must stop this if we are going to help the American people and bring down the price of gasoline. The Democrats cannot run away from their responsibility of being in charge of the Congress and denying the opportunities that should be presented to the American people to see the price of gasoline come down. 
   So while we are here today honoring Mickey Mantle, honoring the American pastime of baseball, Democrats have to take responsibility for denying people the opportunity to go to their baseball games and do other things they would like to do because they are responsible for the price of gasoline having doubled in the 20 months they have been in charge of the Congress. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (MICKEY MANTLE POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I want to say that I wish that what the gentlewoman had said was true. I wish that the bill that passed yesterday would do something to bring down the price of gasoline. If that were true, it would have had a unanimous vote. Instead, Republicans voted against it and many Democrats voted against it because we know that the bill is going absolutely nowhere. It was simply cover for Democrats who are in tight election races. 
   It is a cynical, cynical ploy on behalf of the Democrats, and I am so sorry to see that because I think ultimately people will be held responsible for the cynical ploys that they perpetuate against the American people. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to support the passage of S. 171. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CELEBRATING THE 221ST ANNIVERSARY OF THE SIGNING OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is truly an honor to be able to be here today and speak on the anniversary of our Constitution. On this day, 221 years ago, the Constitution of the United States was signed in Philadelphia. Today we honor the hard work and commitment of the 42 delegates to that Constitutional Convention. In retrospect, the accomplishment of those delegates continues to grow and sets a bar for legislative effectiveness for nations all over the world to try to equal. 
   When I go out and talk to school groups about serving in Congress, I always use the Constitution as my point of reference, and I try to point out to them what a radical idea this entire country is and was. At the time that we sought our independence from Great Britain, no people in the world had ever sought to set themselves up in the way our government did. The Constitution is the basis of all that has helped make us and keep us great. 
   The Constitution signed that day contained only 4,400 words. It is the oldest and shortest written Constitution of any major government in the world. Yet in those few words, the framers laid out a plan for self-government which has insured American liberty, adapted to technological and cultural changes, and expanded civil liberty in this Nation over the past two centuries. 
   I also point out to those school children that in my opinion the most important words written, outside the Bible, are the words ``We the People'' which begin the preamble to the Constitution, because, again, that was a radical notion in those days. 
   The delegates who gathered in Philadelphia faced a daunting task. The Nation had already experienced failure in the form of the Articles of Confederation which did little to unify the States into a coherent national unit. 
   So the question was certainly an open one: Could these delegates, who came from every corner of the Nation and every walk of life, find a new way to create a functioning, unified nation while still respecting the rights and needs of each individual region and State? 
   They succeeded beyond their wildest expectations. The form of government developed by these delegates wasn't perfect, but the foundation they laid sustained us through wars and times of internal tumult. 
   The question for all Americans today is, what can we learn from the accomplishment of the framers of our Constitution? 
   Certainly they taught us there's no shame in contending forcefully for your convictions. But they also taught us that the discipline of respect for your adversary and the virtue of understanding how and when to strike the best compromise possible are the foundations of civil discourse. These are lessons every American would do well to remember. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CELEBRATING THE 221ST ANNIVERSARY OF THE SIGNING OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I very much appreciate the comments by both of our colleagues from New Jersey, and I am very grateful for the leadership that Congressman Garrett has given to us in the Constitution Caucus. 
   I want to say that, as I've said before, I often speak to school groups, and when I do, I always make sure that I use the Constitution as my beginning point. And one of the things that I talk about is the fact that the article I, which enumerates the power of the Congress, is not an accident. The Framers of the Constitution, the Founders of this country, wanted the majority of the power to remain within the elected bodies, and particularly in the House of Representatives, which is  elected every 2 years, and we're known as the people's House. 
   I want to say that I agree with my colleague from New Jersey (Mr. Garrett) that one of the major problems that exists in this Congress now is the fact that we seem to have ignored amendment 10 of the Constitution, which says, ``The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.'' 
   I think that one of the reasons some of our colleagues believe that we've abrogated our responsibilities of oversight to the executive branch, which the Framers never expected to be very powerful, is that we have become engaged in way too many things in this Congress and we can't stick to our knitting. We don't look after the things that we should be looking after because we're doing the things that the States should be doing and that the people should be doing, and if we would adhere to the Constitution, we could do a much better job of what we came here to do or at least what many of us came here to do. 
   So I would say that the problem is within the Congress itself because we don't leave enough time to do the things that we should be doing and that are given to us by the Constitution, and we get involved in doing things that the States should be doing and the people themselves should be doing. 
   And certainly, the bill last night that was passed on this floor is an excellent example of that, and I thank my colleague for bringing it up as an excellent example. 
   I reserve the balance of our time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CELEBRATING THE 221ST ANNIVERSARY OF THE SIGNING OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I do want to talk a little bit more about this issue of the Constitution and the problem that we're having again right now with our not adhering to our responsibilities in this Congress. 
   Article I, again, is what gives power to the Congress. There's nowhere in the Constitution where the President has the power to do what we should be doing right now, which is opening up the supply of oil and gas for the people of this country. 
   We have that power. Day after day, night after night, members of the other party come to the floor and blame our sitting President for every ill in this country. Unfortunately, we simply cannot pass off our responsibilities for the things we should be doing and blame them all on the sitting President. My guess is he's going to be blamed over and over and over for probably a long period of time for those things. 
   But the American people are smarter than that. They know that the Congress itself has the responsibility for doing many of the things that we do not do, and again, the bill yesterday is an example of that. 
   We had a great opportunity to pass a bill yesterday that would have created more American energy, but my colleagues on the other side don't seem to be in favor of more American energy. They seem to be anti-American energy, just as many other things that they support seem to be anti-American power and anti-American control. 
   We can completely eliminate our dependence on foreign sources of oil, and we should be doing that, but we aren't doing that. I urge the American people to pay attention to who is in charge of the Congress right now and say to your Members on the other side, we want you to bring real bills, not sham bills, not illusory bills, but real bills to the floor to be voted on.     
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CELEBRATING THE 221ST ANNIVERSARY OF THE SIGNING OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I thought I had been addressing my comments to the Speaker. 
   I want to say, again, that I thank the gentlemen from New Jersey for bringing this resolution, H. Res. 1356, to the Congress today to vote on. I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.'' 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (JACOB M. LOWELL POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.  
   Madam Speaker, I rise this afternoon to pay tribute to a remarkable American and true  hero, Army Specialist Jacob Michael Lowell, from New Lenox, Illinois. 
   It was June 2, 2007, and he was on his first patrol of his first tour in Afghanistan with the 173rd Airborne Brigade, working as a gunner when his Humvee was ambushed. To the surprise of no one who knew him, Jacob moved immediately to protect his comrades but was shot and killed. Jacob Michael Lowell was 22. 
   Madam Speaker, it is appropriate that we rename the post office in his home town in his honor. It will serve as a reminder to those who loved him of his courage and to those who come after him of his character and dedication to his country and fellow citizens. 
   Army Specialist Lowell was a 2003 graduate of Lincoln-Way Central High School where he played on the offensive line for the school's football team. He was one of those ``110 percent guys'' who always gave all he had and more. 
   From there, he went to college at Saint Xavier University and from there, in 2005, he enlisted in the Army. He was assigned to the 173rd Airborne in Vicenzia, Italy. It was there he learned to love to jump form planes. He would call home to Illinois and tell his friends and family when and where he would take his next jump. 
   He was a man who loved doing his job, serving his country and protecting the freedom we hold dear. And that's why I urge all members to support this resolution.  
   Madam Speaker, we are here this afternoon to pay tribute to a remarkable American and true hero, Army Specialist Jacob Michael Lowell from New Lenox, Illinois. And to do that, I yield such time as he may consume to my distinguished colleague from the State of Illinois, the author of this bill, Mr. Weller. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL ADOPTION DAY AND NATIONAL ADOPTION MONTH -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank my colleague from Illinois for yielding this time. 
   I certainly am in very, very strong support of this resolution. I think that it is very important that we pass this bill, goals and ideals of National Adoption Month. I, too, have seen the impact of children having to be in foster care for long periods of time. 
   And as a grandparent of two and reminded on a constant basis of the fragility of children, and particularly their self-concept and how they interact with other people and their need to be in loving homes, with parents who really want them and make them feel accepted and help them succeed from birth through adulthood, it makes a huge difference in the life of a child to be in a stable environment instead of being moved from foster home to foster home. 
   I admire tremendously the people who open their homes and open their hearts to children who are not their birth children, and I commend them for being willing to do that and want us to pass this resolution and acknowledge those people. 
   But I think one of the most important things that we could do for all families in this country, not just those who are good foster parents, not just those who open their homes to become adoptive parents, but those who are struggling every day with their own children, is to do what we possibly can to bring down the price of gasoline and fuel oil. 
   We are facing a major problem in this country. Families are facing major problems in this country because of the high price of gasoline. 
   I received a letter from a Boy Scout recently who said to me, ``I'm afraid we're going to not be able to continue to go to church on Sundays because of the high price of gasoline.'' Those are the kinds of things that tear at any person's heart because you know that that's coming from the heart of a child who has heard his parents talking about how the high price of gasoline is affecting their family, and it's certainly affecting everyone in this country. And yet we have a do-nothing Congress that has not been willing to take up that issue. 
   I am, again, very happy that we're dealing with talking about the needs of foster parents, talking about promoting adoptions. However, what we could be doing is some real action to bring down the price of gasoline and truly, truly help American families. 
   Instead, when given the options of doing that, this Democrat majority refuses to do it. What they do is they bring up sham bills, bills that are hoaxes and illusions to the American people and say, well, yes, we have been asked all summer long to drill, to create more supply, and then they bring up bills that don't do that, that in fact make it more of a problem to be able to create additional supply. And that's what happened on this floor yesterday.     
   We started out last year by trying to compare the promises that were made by the Speaker--who was then minority leader--and the majority leader in terms of the promises that they made and what they were doing. Well, all along the way it's been promises made, promises broken. 
   They said they would have the most open, most bipartisan Congress ever in the history of this country, and what do they do? They start out immediately by bringing bills to the floor that haven't gone to committee and that are not allowed to be amended. They continue to do that. They did that again yesterday. 
   The bill that they brought up did not go through the committee structure. In fact, I read the bill last night, and I meant to count how many committees but there must have been eight or 10 committees that this bill was supposed to go through. It went through none of them. It was written in the Speaker's office. Nobody got a chance to see it until about 12 hours before we were going to vote on it. It was 290 pages long. It was brought to the floor with no opportunity to amend it. 
   The Republicans had one opportunity to have an impact on the bill, and that was in a motion to recommit. And in that motion to recommit, we offered a bipartisan bill, a bill called the Peterson-Abercrombie bill put together by Democrats and Republicans, and we offered that as an option to the bill that was being brought up because the bill that was voted on last night is going to lock up over 90 percent of the oil reserves off the coasts of this country and put them out of reach for us permanently. 
   And I want to talk about how it's not been only the people in charge of this Congress--the Speaker and the majority leader, they're the ones who are in charge; they've broken every promise that they have made. They even promised in 2006 that we would have a commonsense energy plan that would bring down the price of gasoline. Well, we've been here almost 2 years. Not until last night did we get a bill, and we know that's not going to bring down the price of gas--but even the rank-and-file Democrats who promised their constituents that they would vote for bills, even sponsored bills, that they then would not vote on. 
   I want to mention some of those and quote them. Many of them also say they want to stimulate the economy, but almost every single one of them voted against this bipartisan bill authored by Representatives John Peterson of Pennsylvania and Neil Abercrombie from Hawaii. Mr. Peterson is a Republican; Mr. Abercrombie is a Democrat. Their bill would lower gas prices on behalf of working families and small businesses. 
   There were 24 Democrats who were cosponsors of the Peterson-Abercrombie bill who voted against that bill last night after they said they would vote for it. Many of them promised their constituents that they would vote for it. And I want to give some examples of that. 
   Representative Nancy Boyda, Democrat from Kansas, who was a cosponsor of the Peterson-Abercrombie bill, voted against it when given an opportunity. However, earlier in the month, she issued a press release that promised that she would work to get this bill passed. She said, ``I have been working with a large, bipartisan group of Representatives to develop a comprehensive, commonsense energy bill. Our [Peterson-Abercrombie] bill would provide sorely needed relief for Kansas families. It will help create energy independence for America and millions of jobs to help stabilize our struggling economy.'' Representative Nancy Boyda, Democrat, Kansas, press release, 9/04/08. 
   She issued that press release and then voted against the very same bill she had told her constituents she was working to get passed. 
   Representative Baron Hill, Democrat of Indiana, a cosponsor of the Peterson-Abercrombie bill, once said, ``I hope this bipartisan bill will indeed be brought to the floor.'' But when given a chance, he voted against it. 
   Again, in a press release dated August 14, 2008, he said, ``I hope this bipartisan bill will indeed be brought to the floor for a vote when we return to Washington in September.'' Hill said, ``It would provide immediate relief, while also bolstering development of new energy sources in order to move this country closer to energy independence.'' Again, Representative Baron Hill, Democrat, Indiana, press release August 14, 2008. 
   These press releases show that what the press here in Washington is reporting is that the bill that was brought up last night by the Democrats was only brought up to provide cover for Democrats who are in vulnerable seats this fall. There was never any intention of that bill becoming law. They wanted to  give them a chance to say they voted for drilling when in fact the bill doesn't provide for additional gas and oil. 
   It's never going to be passed by the Senate. The Senators, even Democratic Senators, have said the bill is dead on arrival in the Senate. 
   Another Democrat who was a cosponsor of the Peterson-Abercrombie bill who also voted against it was Representative Steve Kagen, Democrat from Wisconsin. 
   Here is a quote from the Herald Times in Wisconsin, 9/13/08. ``Kagen, who signed onto the bill Tuesday, said the Abercrombie-Peterson bill 'really is a comprehensive energy policy and a roadmap forward. That bill has the balance in investing in renewable sources. It raises royalty (fees) from those who are drilling and it doesn't limit drilling to four or five States,' Kagen said.'' 
   The headline on that story was ``Congress Sitting on An Energy Hot Seat.'' 
   Speaker Pelosi has said over and over again that they're going to create an energy strategy that's going to make it look like vulnerable Democrats are voting on real energy reform without actually doing it. She stated that herself. But they went a step further than that. These people cosponsored a bill and pledged to support it and then voted against it when given a chance to do it. 
   Madam Speaker, I would like to include in the Congressional Record today the list of all 24 Democrats who were for this bill before they were against it. 
   Again, yesterday, though, the House Democrats in charge denied Republicans the opportunity to a full debate, an honest vote on the American Energy Act, the Republican bill that does do all of the above to help working families and small businesses dealing with record fuel costs. 
   But this fight is not over. We are going to continue to bring this message to the American people. It's important that the American people know that the Democrats are in charge, they are the ones responsible for the high gas prices, and I hope the American people will hold them responsible this fall. 
   Speaker Pelosi and her leadership team have made no bones about their elaborate strategy of making it look like vulnerable Democrats are voting on real energy reform without actually doing it. But these Democrats took it a step further: They cosponsored a bill and pledged to support it and then rejected it when given an up-or-down vote. Here is a list of all 24 Democrats who were for it before they were against it: Rep. Neil Abercrombie (D-HI), Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Rep. Dan Boren (D-OK), Rep. Nancy Boyda (D-KS), Rep. Dennis Cardoza (D-CA), Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA), Rep. Bud Cramer (D-AL), Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Rep. Artur Davis (D-AL), Rep. Lincoln Davis (D-TN), Rep. Bart Gordon (D-TN), Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), Rep. Phil Hare (D-IL), Rep. Baron Hill (D-IN), Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX), Rep. William Jefferson (D-LA), Rep. Steve Kagen (D-WI), Rep. Paul Kanjorski (D-PA), Rep. Charlie Melancon (D-LA), Rep. Patrick Murphy (D-PA), Rep. Solomon Ortiz (D-TX), Rep. Collin Peterson (D-MN), Rep. Ciro Rodriguez (D-TX), Rep. Mike Ross (D-AR). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ASHE COUNTY ARMED SERVICES TRIBUTE A PATRIOTIC SUCCESS -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to praise the people of Ashe County, North Carolina, for their strong support for our men and women in uniform. 
   Any time there is an opportunity to honor our active military and our veterans, such as Memorial Day or Veterans Day, the folks in Ashe County show their support in the strongest way possible. But on August 23rd of this year, Ashe County hosted its Armed Forces Tribute and showed what a remarkable place Ashe County is and how remarkable the people there are. 
   This event was a fitting way to honor our country's brave veterans and those who are serving around the world to keep our Nation safe. True to the organizers' goal for the event, it was a time to reflect on the sacrifices of those who  willingly put their lives on the line for the cause of freedom. It made me proud once again to be an American and proud to represent the fine people of Ashe County who made this special time possible. 
   The Armed Forces Tribute was broadcast worldwide to military personnel by the military's Pentagon Channel and aired across the State of North Carolina on public television's UNC-TV. The use of technology that day in this small county in western North Carolina was phenomenal. It was a proud day in Ashe County for those who serve our Nation. 
   The tribute was filled with memorable moments of honoring those who serve and have served in our military. Lieutenant General Thomas F. Metz gave a stirring speech that will not soon be forgotten. North Carolina's own 82nd Airborne parachuted from the skies over Ashe County, not once but twice during the celebration. 
   And participants were even connected via satellite to our troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. Indeed, family members came from all over the United States to be able to talk electronically with their member serving in the military overseas. And once again we heard the extremely articulate men and women serving in the military describe their experiences and their positive outlook on what is happening in Iraq in particular, and all of us were extremely pleased to hear that. 
   Were it not for the generous spirit of patriotism and volunteerism of the people of the High Country, this event would not have been possible. I would like to thank everyone who gave their time and their money to ensure the success of the Armed Forces Tribute. 
   But there is someone who deserves special thanks and recognition for the passion and dedication she brings to make this tribute happen. Vicky Moody, president of the Jefferson, North Carolina, Rotary Club, once again brought the people of Ashe County together to pull off a spectacular salute to our troops and led her fellow Rotarians, who served as volunteers for this event, in the cause. 
   Thank you, Vicky, for your work and your love of country and our military men and women. Thank you, Jefferson Rotarians, for all of the work, effort and money that you put into making this a wonderful event. 
   It is always fitting to honor those who put their lives on the line for our Nation and make tremendous sacrifices for our freedom, and today is no exception. Thank you to our veterans, their families, and to the patriotic Americans like Vicky Moody and Ashe County who stand behind our active duty military as they defend the front lines of the fight for liberty. May God continue to bless you, and may God continue to bless the United States of America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (MAYOR WILLIAM ``BILL'' SANDBERG POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6229, to rename the post office in North St. Paul, Minnesota, in honor of former Mayor William ``Bill'' Sandberg. Mayor Sandberg died April 20 at the age of 76 after serving for more than 30 years as mayor of his beloved hometown. 
   He graduated in 1950 from North St. Paul High School where he played football and hockey and from the University of Minnesota in 1954 with a degree in mortuary science. After serving his country in the Army, Mayor Sandberg returned to North St. Paul and became a director at his family's business, the Sandberg Funeral Home. 
   He became mayor in 1978 and began a career known for character, personality, fairness and decorum. Described by fellow members of the City Council as a ``problem solver who could get people to think in different ways,'' he made a point of never coming into a meeting with his mind made up. He also made a point of putting people at ease when they came to testify before the council and for keeping debates focused on the issues at hand, not personalities. 
   This openness, this credibility, this unflinching optimism brought citizens together even when his ideas didn't enjoy universal support. Among his greatest legacies will be his insistence that Highway 36 run through the center of North St. Paul. Some feared the increased traffic would bring nothing but pollution and gridlock. But Mayor Sandberg insisted that thousands of commuters would visit the city's downtown area who otherwise never would know it existed. This championing of all things North St. Paul permeated everything the mayor did. He considered attendance at local high school hockey games and Chamber of Commerce meetings as important as attending council meetings. He encouraged others to participate in council activities and worked tirelessly to connect citizens to their government. 
   The city already has begun to honor its beloved former mayor by renaming a bridge in his honor. Let us join in this celebration of an exemplary public servant, support this resolution and rename the local post office in his honor. 
   Mr. Speaker, with that, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ARMY SPC DANIEL AGAMI POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this bill to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 4233 West Hillsboro Boulevard Coconut Creek, Florida, as the Army SPC Daniel Agami Post Office Building.     
   United States Army Specialist Daniel J. Agami was, in the words of his grandmother, ``the best of the best.'' He was much more than a soldier. He was a leader, a selfless patriot, and a joyous young man with a huge heart. 
   Born in Ohio, Daniel moved with his family to south Florida when he was 4. He attended the Hebrew Academy Community School and Coconut Creek High School and was in college when he decided he was meant for a higher purpose. Without consulting friends or family, Daniel answered his calling and enlisted in the Army. 
   Daniel brought the Army more than service and bravery. He brought his good humor, his tremendous heart and the moral conviction that he served something far greater than himself. 
   Affectionately known by his fellow soldiers as ``GI Jew,'' he strove constantly to improve the lives of those around him. When he was not educating his fellow soldiers about his religion, he was serving as a mentor to orphaned children in Iraq. In the words of his father, ``He had 10,000 friends, and 10,000 friends thinking he was their best friend.'' 
   On June 21, 2007, Daniel Agami was killed while on patrol in Baghdad. He was only 25. More than 1,000 people attended his funeral. He was posthumously promoted to specialist, and his parents were presented with a number of medals, including the Bronze Star, Purple Heart and the Good Conduct Medal. 
   Daniel died defending his core belief that America fights for the freedom and survival of the entire world. As one friend recalled, ``He had said that if, God forbid, anything happened to him, this is where he belonged.'' 
   A loving son, brother, grandson and friend, Daniel Agami will be missed, and not just by those 10,000 best friends, but by all Americans who cherish freedom and courage and honor. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this bill so that the life of this courageous young man and all that he stood for will not soon be forgotten. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (FOSTERING CONNECTIONS TO SUCCESS AND INCREASING ADOPTIONS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I want to thank my colleague from Illinois. 
   I think what we need to be doing here today is continuing to alert the American people to what is not happening in terms of dealing with the energy situation in the United States. 
   Last night, House Democrats rejected any efforts on behalf of the Republicans to pass bipartisan energy legislation. They rejected our efforts to do that and they rammed through a sham, hoax, illusory, no-energy bill that falls way short of the all-of-the-above solution that the American people are demanding. 
   The bill passed by a vote of 236-189, and that should tell the American people how much opposition there was to this no-energy bill. 
   Even Democrats have indicated that this was the wrong bill. Senator Mary Landrieu has said that the bill is going to be dead on arrival in the Senate. So we know this was simply a vote, as has been publicized in Congressional Quarterly and other publications here in Washington, that was simply a cover for Democrats who are running for reelection. 
   Representative Gene Green said, ``I do not believe our bill goes far enough to address America's energy needs.'' 
   Even they admit that what was done last night did not respond to the needs of the American people. We are going to continue to discuss this on this floor and even after the Congress adjourns. We also should point out that from the first of August until the end of December, this Democrat-controlled Congress plans to work 14 days. While Americans are facing the highest energy prices they have ever faced in this country, the Democrat-controlled Congress plans to be in session and work for 14 days in a 5-month period of time. That is shameless. That is unacceptable. 
   We need to be helping the American people by bringing down the price of gasoline. We can do that. Republicans have a bill that will do that. We even would support the bipartisan bill that we introduced last night, but that isn't good enough. All they want is a cover for their Members to go back home and say we voted to drill for more energy.     
   That's not true. By not revenue sharing, they're stealing money from the States who would opt in to do this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CEECEE ROSS LYLES POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise today in support of this bill designating the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 1717 Orange Avenue in Fort Pierce, Florida, as the CeeCee Ross Lyles Post Office Building.     
   Born and raised in Fort Pierce, CeeCee Ross Lyles was a role model in her community. She worked several jobs to support her family and still found time to volunteer at a local Christian women's shelter. 
   For 6 years Lyles served at the Fort Pierce Police Department. During that  time she became known for her willingness to tackle fleeing criminals, worked her way up to detective, and was up for a promotion to sergeant. 
   In October 2000, Lyles saw a chance to pursue a lifelong dream and left the Fort Pierce Police Department. Through employment with United Airlines as a flight attendant, Lyles found new experiences and opportunities to travel. 
   Sadly, her life ended less than a year later, on September 11, 2001. Lyles was among the heroic crew on United Flight 93, which, along with the passengers on board that day, overtook the terrorists and prevented them from completing their diabolical plot. 
   Ultimately, the plane crashed in a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, killing the 44 people on board, but saving an untold number of American lives, including, perhaps, many of us as that plane almost certainly was headed for this building. Moments before the plane went down, Lyles called her husband and prayed for her family, herself and everyone aboard the plane. 
   CeeCee Ross Lyles was a loving wife and mother and a devoted member of her community whose life was cut short by the tragic events on September 11, 2001. I urge my colleagues to support this bill in her memory. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DO NOT ENCOURAGE TERRORISTS -- (House of Representatives - February 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to strongly condemn H.Con.Res 63, and the destructive message it sends our troops. Additionally, it sends a message that emboldens the very terrorists we are fighting to prevent another 9/11. 
   The debate over this resolution makes America appear weak in her resolve to win the war on terror. We have seen terrorism all across the globe, from bombings in Spain, to London and Bali. 
   America is fighting radical Islamic jihadists, an enemy that poses a threat of colossal proportions. They will stop at nothing to follow their twisted version of Islam and to pursue the destruction of Israel and Western civilization. 
   That is why I stand here with the firm resolve and pledge to protect my country and future generations from terrorism. I took an oath and have a constitutional obligation as a Member of Congress to protect and defend America from all enemies, foreign or domestic. This is an obligation all Members of Congress share, and it simply escapes me how some of my colleagues fail to understand the dire consequences of leaving Iraq. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Well, thank you, Mr. Gingrey. Thank you, Congressman Gingrey, for your leadership on this hour tonight as well as for your help earlier this year in August for what we were doing in calling to the attention of the American people those who are creating this problem with the high gas prices. I want to add some comments to my colleague from Florida's comments about drilling in ANWR. 
   I had the great opportunity to go to Alaska in 2005. I'd been there once before just purely as a tourist, but I went as a Member of Congress in 2005. I also saw Prudhoe Bay. I also saw Valdez. I also flew over ANWR. I want to add my comments and support to the things that he has said. 
   When the ANWR was set aside, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge--I think it was in the early 70s--it was specific in the bill that some of that land would be set aside for oil drilling because people knew then that there was oil there and that it should be drilled for, but since that time, the Democrats have time and time and time again stopped us from drilling there. A bill passed in 1995--it passed both Houses--to allow drilling in ANWR, and President Clinton vetoed it. Since then, many, many times we have brought up votes, and the Democrats have consistently voted against drilling there. 
   He is absolutely right. The ANWR area is nothing but a frozen desert. Where we would be drilling is a frozen desert. It looks gray like that picture he showed. We saw it from the air. It looks exactly like that. It is akin to the deserts of Saudi Arabia, but it happens to be a frozen desert. 
   You know, the Lord gave us all of the resources, I believe, in this world that we need, but they just don't always look like they're the resources that we need, and sometimes they're tied up in unusual places, but the way I've described it to my colleagues and to my constituents is the way that I have heard it described as to the area that we would drill in ANWR, the 2000 acres: A postage stamp is to a football field as those 2000 acres are to the State of Alaska. It's a minuscule part of the State of Alaska, and it would do no harm. 
   Also, there is one thing that my colleague Mr. Keller didn't mention. He did show a wonderful map of how close the pipeline is now to that area. We're told that, in 18 months, we could have oil flowing from ANWR into the Alaska pipeline. In fact, it's going to be necessary to keep oil flowing into that pipeline or the pipeline is going to have to be shut down. So the Democrats continue to say it's going to take 10 years. It will only take 10 years if they and their trial lawyer friends and their radical environmentalist friends continue to bring lawsuits. What takes so long for us to create the energy that we need in this country are the lawsuits that keep getting filed. We could do this. We could be getting gas from the Outer Continental Shelf, I understand, in 3 years if we don't have to continually fight lawsuits to get this energy. 
   During the period of time when we were debating this in August--when the cameras were turned off, when the lights were turned off, when the mikes were turned off--I said that we have a choice to make here in the Congress. We are either going to be pro-American energy or anti-American energy. The Republicans in this Congress are pro-American energy. There is no reason why this country cannot be completely energy independent. Now, today, we've emphasized drilling. 
   By the way, let me make one other comment about the drilling in Alaska that nobody has made. I saw this again when I was there. You know, when you see the pictures of ANWR again, you see caribou grazing in a meadow with daisies blooming. That's, again, not the area that we would be drilling in. There are no caribou. There are living things there, I'm sure, in that frozen wasteland but not anything that you can see. 
   The other things that you see are these oil rigs like you see in Texas, these things that go up and down, and they're not very attractive armaments or implements, but when we saw the oil wells in Alaska, for the life of me, you couldn't have known that those were oil wells. They are simple boxes, maybe a little bit taller than I am, and they have valves on them. They look sort of like oxygen tanks with some valves on them, but they're not unattractive at all. They're in little boxes that sort of look like cabanas. We saw a whole row of about, I'd say, 100 or 150 of them. You would have no idea. They might be refrigerators for all one knows, but they're not unattractive at all. 
   Again, the radical environmentalists want us to think that we're going to be assaulted visually and that the environment is going to be assaulted by our drilling in ANWR. They want us to do nothing. I think the comment by the gentleman from the Sierra Club is very typical of what they feel. They don't want us to have cheap gas because they don't want us to use the good resources that the Lord gave us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Well, I thank my colleague from Georgia for mentioning that because I wanted to also mention that Republicans have consistently said we're for all of the above. We're not just for drilling in ANWR, just for drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf. We want all of the alternatives. We want to be energy independent. We certainly believe in advancing solar, wind, hydro, and whatever other sources there are out there. Most of us believe that, in a short period of time, we'll be completely independent of many fossil fuels. We have coal that we could be using, clean-burning coal. We're the Saudi Arabia of coal. 
   The interesting thing about the fact that the Democrats don't want us to drill is that they say they want alternatives, but they don't fund alternatives. Our bill that would allow for  drilling would take the money that the Federal Government would get from those leases, and it would use that money to develop alternatives. While they've authorized programs for alternatives, they haven't funded them. So they're being very disingenuous when they say they want alternatives, because they are not allowing us to have alternatives because they're not funding them. It's a program that, I think, deserves the emperor's new clothes' award. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Well, again, I appreciate that help with what I was saying because it reminds me of another point that I want to make, and that is, by not allowing this new exploration, we are ensuring that Big Oil will stay in control of the issues. When new areas are opened up, it opens up the opportunities for smaller oil companies and for new entrepreneurs to get involved in the business. 
   So the best thing that could happen to the ``big oil companies,'' those people who the Democrats demonize constantly, is for us not to open up new areas for drilling, because they have such a lock on the existing areas, and so they are helping, unwittingly perhaps, the existing oil companies to stay big by decreasing the competition for them. 
   Now let's talk a little bit about what is the Democrats' plan. They say no, no, no, no, no to all of the things which we have proposed which we believe the American people want. We know that from the surveys. Our hope in coming back here for this session is that the American people will have put a lot of pressure on our Democratic colleagues in saying to them: ``You must tell the Speaker that she needs to bring up a bill for a vote, and that's all we're asking for. We want a clean up or down vote.'' 
   Now, I had said this many of the times that I was here during August. One day in July, before we went on recess and when the Republicans were talking about this--we'd been talking about this all of this year that we needed to do something to increase the supply and bring down the price of gasoline--somebody asked one of Speaker Pelosi's aides: ``Well, what is your plan for bringing down the price of gasoline?'' The answer was: ``Drive small cars and wait for the wind.'' 
   Well, this is how somebody has characterized this. This is the Democrats' energy plan: drive small cars and wait for the wind. Well, most people in this country can't trade their big cars for small cars. They need their big cars. They have families, and they need to transport them or they have so much invested in those cars already, and they're not wealthy people like our Speaker is. They are people who are working hard for a living, and they can't do that. 
   Well, I have likened this to when the French people told the Queen of France that the people had no bread. She said, ``Let them eat cake.'' Well, that's, I think, what the Democrats are saying to the American people. Let them eat cake. Whereas, the Republicans are saying we have alternatives. Let's vote on those alternatives. Yes, I think this deals with some of the quotes that Mr. Gingrey was talking about, that Congressman Gingrey from Georgia was talking about a few minutes ago. 
   We did get promises. In fact, the Speaker promised in 2006 that the Democrats had a commonsense plan for bringing down the price of gasoline. That was when the price of gasoline was around $2. Now it's almost $4. They've done nothing about it. This is what one of their Members said: ``We sort of stretched the truth, and people ate it up.'' This was stated by Representative Paul Kanjorski, a Democrat from Pennsylvania, on the Democrats' campaign promises. They made those promises. 
   Now, what have Republicans done? Thirty-five times the Democrats have voted down Rules Committee Republican-offered solutions to lower your gas prices and to address America's urgent energy needs. The Speaker said we'll have to use our imagination for ways that we can get a vote. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have used every opportunity presented to us in this Congress to force a vote on providing American-made energy.     
   And every time the Democrats have stifled that. 
   We're not asking for a lot. We are asking for an up-or-down vote. Now, we have it broken down. We are not asking you to take our word for it. We have it broken down. Eleven times they voted ``no'' to consider amendments that would lower the average price of regular unleaded gasoline; four times to lower the price of gasoline and diesel by increasing our domestic fuel supply; six times they voted ``no'' to address alternative fuels; and fourteen times to address additional energy solutions provided by the American Energy Act, No More Excuses Energy Act, Coal-Liquid Fuel Act, Deep Ocean Resources Energy Act, Boutique Fuel Reduction Act, and the American Energy Independence and Price Reduction Act. 
   Republicans continue to try, and we are going to continue to bring up these issues every day that the Congress is in session and when we go out of session. But we do need the American people to help on this. We're going to bring it up. But if you live in the district of a Democrat who has not yet said he or she will vote ``yes'' for additional energy, then you need to be calling the House of Representatives and you need to be calling the Speaker's office to let them know. But it's better to call your Member of Congress and ask that Member to tell them. 
   Now, here's the other energy plan presented by their nominee for President. Our nominee for President, Senator McCain, has said he wants to increase American-made energy. Senator Obama's plan is check your tires and get them inflated properly and that's the solution to the American energy needs. That's just not going to cut it, Senator Obama. I'm sorry. We have got to increase supply. 
   Americans have been doing a wonderful job of conserving. And, again, I want to make it very clear Republicans believe in all of the above. We support conservation, but we support alternatives such as solar, wind, hydro, every other alternative that there is out there. We are willing to do that. But we know we cannot do this without increasing supply. And I simply think that we need to ask the Democrats are you pro-American energy or are you anti-American energy? If you're not interested in increasing the supply that we have within our borders, then you're anti-American energy. That is being anti-American people because it's the average working person, the retired people, young people who are being hurt by the high price of gasoline. And I think that that approach is the approach of people who are totally out of touch with the real world, and I am very disappointed in that. 
   I am going to yield back to my colleague now, Mr. Gingrey, from the great State of Georgia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PRAISING THE RESCUE EFFORTS OF HORIZON LINES -- (House of Representatives - September 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, when most Americans think of open-seas rescue operations, they think rightly about the United States Coast Guard. Our Nation's Coast Guard has a distinguished history of search and rescue missions dating back 217 years. They recently celebrated their one-millionth rescue, and I want to commend the bravery and service of this time-honored branch of our Armed Forces. 
   But it turns out the Coast Guard isn't the only one assisting seafarers in distress these days. North Carolina-based Horizon Lines, a leading domestic ocean shipping company, came to the rescue of 22 Chinese crew members on a 420-foot log ship this summer. The log ship was transporting a load from Papua New Guinea to China, when it encountered the 70-mile-per-hour winds and 24-foot seas of a typhoon. The rough seas apparently caused the log ship's cargo to shift and eventually led to the loss of the vessel. 
   The ship, the Hai Tong, had sunk in the very rough seas and the survivors had been adrift in the ocean 375 miles from Guam for 2 days when the Horizon Lines container ship, the Horizon Falcon, arrived. The Horizon Falcon was the first vessel to arrive on the scene after the log ship's crew alerted the Coast Guard to the Hai Tong's distress. 
   When the Horizon Falcon arrived, it found survivors in the water surrounded by an oil slick and debris from the sunken ship. With the U.S. Coast Guard on the way, the Horizon Line's vessel immediately began a search and rescue operation amidst treacherous 30-foot swells and 40-mile-an-hour winds. 
   The Horizon Falcon's captain, Tom McDorr, navigated through the heavy seas filled with the log ship's cargo and managed to get the huge 722-foot container ship within range of a rescue mission using one of the ship's lifeboats. His brave crew took the small lifeboat into the heavy seas, which still threatened their lives with 20-foot waves, and began searching for survivors of the wreck. 
   Due to the distance of the nearest Coast Guard vessels, at this point there were not yet any Coast Guard rescuers on the scene. The lifeboat, crewed by three of the Horizon Falcon's seamen and under the command of Chief Mate Kevin McCarthy, fought its way through the massive waves and managed to locate and take one survivor aboard with waves crashing down on the vessel from literally every direction. 
   I cannot say enough to commend the bravery of these men who risked their lives to save someone with whom they had no connection. Their selfless act was a demonstration of profound humanity in the face of extreme danger. 
   The danger was so great that as they returned to the ship with a survivor in the lifeboat they were forced to abandon the damaged lifeboat, to the heavy seas. The crew and the rescued seaman managed to climb to safety up the containership's 40-foot pilot's ladder. 
   The heroic actions of the Horizon Falcon's crew continued as another survivor was rescued by able-seaman J. Dacaug. He was secured to the pilot's ladder and went back to the ocean after the additional survivors. He managed to attach a grappling hook to a Chinese sailor even as he was battered by the huge swells and occasionally was submerged completely in the heavy seas. His bravery resulted in another life saved when both men were winched back to the safety of the container ship. 
   The Falcon continued to search through the night for more survivors with the help of additional commercial ships and by the light of flares from a Navy airplane based in Japan. As the Falcon began to run low on fuel, it was relieved by a Coast Guard vessel that joined the search. The Coast Guard finally suspended the search 2 days later after 13 survivors had been rescued. 
   Working against time and the power of nature, the captain and crew of the Horizon Falcon risked their own lives so others might emerge from a disastrous shipwreck to sail another day. Chuck Raymond of Horizon Lines put it well. ``Ever since man has been going to sea, there has been danger. But there also has been and will ever be brotherhood at sea that crosses any boundary. This rescue effort is a shining example of that.'' 
   The Coast Guard also praised the heroic actions of the Falcon's crew saying that their efforts were to be ``commended and do not go unnoticed.'' I completely agree. We live in a time when it is easy to pass up opportunities to help someone in distress with the assumption that someone else will take care of it. But in the spirit of the Good Samaritan, the crew of the Falcon proved that ordinary people can do extraordinary good if given a chance. They deserve to be commended for reaching out across boundaries of language and culture and helping people in dire need. 
   I wish to extend my thanks to all the people at this fine North Carolina company for a job well done. They have shown what they value most, which is to protect human lives at all cost and to reach out to those in need. I hope other companies take notice and follow their lead in this exemplary deed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (LILLY LEDBETTER FAIR PAY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleague from California for yielding me this time. 
   Along with everyone else here, I feel it is important to say that I am very much opposed to discrimination. It makes me ill to even think about discrimination that has occurred in this country in the past. But I am also very much opposed to this legislation. We don't need to be throwing the baby out with the bathwater. 
   When I first went to the North Carolina Senate, I was troubled by the way a lot of things were done there. And someone said to me, If you think that people operate here on logic, you are sadly wrong. They operate on emotion. 
   We have heard some very emotional comments made about this legislation and why it should be passed. Those of us who are opposing it are opposing it on very logical reasons. 
   This bill makes dramatic changes to civil rights law and would have an incredibly far-reaching impact, one which supporters of the bill have yet to take the time to thoroughly and appropriately consider. The underlying bill constitutes a major change in and expanded application of employment discrimination law. 
   Traditionally, civil rights laws have had adequate time for thoughtful review and consideration. However, this bill was brought before the Education and Labor Committee about 24 hours prior to markup and rushed to the floor under a closed rule. It is critical that legislation of this complexity and with the potential for such significant impact be carefully considered and not rushed through only weeks after its introduction. 
   Many other things have been thoughtfully and rightfully said on our side, but I want to say that we need to talk about an area that is most likely to be dramatically impacted is that of our Nation's retirement system. This legislation contains a pension annuity check rule where charges could be brought many years after the discrimination occurs, and it could have long-standing impact on benefits. It could wind up discriminating against a lot more people than we are trying to help as a result of this legislation. 
   It is going too fast. We need to slow it down and do it right. We want to not have discrimination, but this is not the way to do it 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING THE ``HORN IN THE WEST'' HISTORICAL DRAMA -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor ``Horn in the West,'' which this year is in its 56th consecutive season and is the third oldest outdoor drama in the United States. ``Horn in the West'' is also the oldest Revolutionary War drama in the Nation. It brings theatre-goers into the life and times of that legendary frontiersman Daniel Boone. 
   Located in Boone, North Carolina, ``Horn in the West'' outdoor drama captured the heart of this great struggle for freedom that was fought by mountain settlers in Appalachia during the Revolutionary War. In its 56 years of existence, the show has wowed more than 1.4 million people with its storytelling ingenuity and historical acumen. To this day it is not only entertaining thousands each year; it is also preserving a valuable story drawn from our Nation's early formative years. 
   ``Horn in the West'' was written by Dr. Kermit Hunter, an accomplished author and playwright who wrote more than 40 other historical productions. Dr. Hunter, who passed away in 2001, was a dedicated spokesman for the genre of the outdoor drama. His drama highlights the early freedom-seeking settlers who migrated to the Blue Ridge Mountains in an attempt to escape from the tyranny of British rule. 
   The story of ``Horn in the West'' is told through the lens of Dr. Geoffrey Stuart, who came to the Blue Ridge with his family to study smallpox. A freedom lover himself, Stuart joined the band of colonists in opposition to the British. ``Horn in the West'' ushers the audience into a great moment in the lead-up to the Revolutionary War when this group of patriots suffers defeat and capture at the hands of the British in 1771 at the Battle of Alamance. 
   Dr. Stuart, a model of the American spirit to forge ahead in the face of opposition, must rescue his son who is one of those captured by the British. The story weaves its way through Stuart's life, his important intervention with the Cherokee tribe, and his partnership with Daniel Boone. ``Horn in the West'' is the story of a man and a Nation coming to terms with the meaning of liberty and independence in a tumultuous time. 
   I am proud to commend the people at ``Horn in the West'' for their steadfast commitment to bringing this important time and place to life for audiences in the town of Boone every year. They embody the ideals of America that this production encompasses: a love of freedom, a strong belief in the common man, and a dedication to what is right even in the face of uncertain odds. 
   The cast and supporting staff and board are dedicated to ``Horn'' and are doing a great job with very limited resources. 
   The Daniel Boone Theatre that houses the outdoor production of ``Horn in the West'' is a magnificent setting for this historical play. When it was first reviewed, the critics raved that the theatrical setting was ``one of the most beautiful, if not the most beautiful, in America'' and that ``the theatre alone is worth the price of admission.'' 
   The Daniel Boone Theatre merits such praise. It is a masterful blend of architecture and landscape. Designed by the NC State School of Design and built in 1952, it deserves its title as the best outdoor theatre in the east. It sits on 35 acres of Blue Ridge Mountain terrain and was designed specifically with ``Horn in the West'' in mind. The theatre blends into the mountains with its careful use of native stone and landscaping. The theatre's designers took great pains to integrate existing vegetation into the landscape so that today enormous rhododendron which were moved up the hill create a natural screen between the theater and the parking lot. 
   The ``Horn in the West'' production and the Daniel Boone Theatre are priceless pieces of North Carolina and American history. They preserve something of our past that in today's era of sound bite and image-obsessed is desperately needed. They remind us of our roots in a liberty-loving and free people who would give everything they held dear for the cause of freedom. 
   My hope is that ``Horn in the West'' continues to dazzle audiences with its depiction of our shared history. It is a valuable part of our history and culture, and I wish it many more decades of successful production 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (U.S. ECONOMY AND TAXES -- (House of Representatives - October 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, America's economy is increasingly complex. While we hear reports of uncertainty, we also see many fundamental signs of health in the economy. 
   The latest good news is the recent jobs report that found the economy added 110,000 jobs in September and 89,000 jobs in August, a massive turnaround from the previously reported loss of 4,000 jobs in August. 
   With 200,000 new jobs added to the economy in the last 2 months, we once again have proof that Republican economic policies of cutting taxes to spur growth are still working. But we cannot keep our economy thriving on the tax cuts of yesterday. Congress must work to keep taxes low for America's working families. 
   We have already seen a Democratic budget that assumes a tax increase of nearly $400 billion. If there are signs of uncertainty about the future of our economy, such a financial hit to American taxpayers would undoubtedly undermine the positive steps Republicans took to ensure economic growth and stability. 
   Everyone wants a strong U.S. economy. Let's keep it that way by preserving low taxes and not preying on the wallets of the families that work hard to keep this economy humming. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PAYCHECK FAIRNESS ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to thank Ranking Member McKeon for his work on this bill. I find it very interesting that our colleagues have such hubris that they think we are going to solve all of the problems of the world here in the Congress. I wish that it were so. 
   I worked all my life for equal rights for women, and I don't take a back seat to anyone on this floor or in this body for that. But I want to say that this bill is not going to solve the problem that we face in terms of equal pay for equal work. 
   My colleagues have reviewed very well the existing law. They have stated well why this bill is not needed. But I have to say that the Democrats have been very clever in the way that they have named bills here this year. The Free Choice Act, which takes away the choice of a secret ballot for voting for unions, does exactly the opposite. 
   This bill, the Paycheck Fairness Act, will not do what the Democrats purport that it will do. It will help trial lawyers. Those in charge of the House of Representatives, I believe, are being controlled by trial lawyers, union leaders, and radical environmentalists. 
   I think this bill will make it easier for trial lawyers to cash in. It includes several steps that will make it more lucrative for trial lawyers to pursue sex discrimination claims under the EPA. This may be good for lawyers, but it will be costly for businesses and their workers. 
   I agree, discrimination against anyone is wrong. No one who serves in this House or who lives in this country wants to see that. But I want to quote from an article by Carrie Lukas, and I will put the entire article in the Record. The subtitle is: The Paycheck Fairness Act, and the title is: Feminists Meddle with the Market. It's in National Review. 
   ``Today is a rare moment when Congress has the potential to meaningfully address a real economic problem, rising energy prices, with sensible legislation to allow more drilling to increase energy supplies. So what has Congress slated for consideration this week? The Paycheck Fairness Act, a bill that is the equivalent of throwing sand into the wheels of our economic machine.'' 
   She goes on to say, ``Of course, no congressional legislation would be complete without a healthy serving of waste, and the Paycheck Fairness Act doesn't disappoint. It would create a new grant program to instruct women on salary negotiation tactics and require the Department of Labor to train employers in strategies for eliminating pay disparities. It seems almost quaint to ask, but where in the Constitution is Congress granted the power to engage in this type of activity? Taxpayers should be outraged that their money is being put to such use.'' 
   If we are really concerned about working women and wanting to see them treated fairly, the Democrats in charge would bring up the American Energy Act and let us vote to create more sources of energy, thereby bringing down the cost of oil and gas and other forms of energy. This would do a lot more to help working women than this bill is going to do.  
   Feminists Meddle With the Market--the Paycheck Fairness Act  
   When an economic issue makes headlines, you can usually count on Congress to respond, more often than not with an over-reach that creates more problems than it solves (think Sarbanes-Oxley or the recent housing bailout bill). Today is a rare moment when Congress has the potential to meaningfully address a real economic problem--rising energy prices--with sensible legislation to allow more drilling to increase energy supplies. So what has Congress slated for consideration this week? The Paycheck Fairness Act, a bill that is the equivalent of throwing sand into the wheels of our economic machine. 
   Underlying the bill are the assumptions that our workplace is systematically hostile to women and that existing laws don't provide enough protection for women. As committee chairman George Miller (D., Calif.) said when celebrating the passage of the bill out of his committee: ``This is a historic day in the fight for equal rights for women. If we are serious about closing the gender pay gap, we must get serious about punishing those who would otherwise scoff at the weak sanctions under current law.'' 
   The committee's press release, like essentially every public statement supporting expanded ``equal pay'' laws, cites the statistic that women earn just 77 percent of men's earnings. This ``wage gap'' is considered proof that the work world's deck is still stacked against women and government needs to do more to make sure that everyone plays fair. 
   Yet a statistic that simply compares the wages of the median full-time working man and the full-time working woman tells us nothing about the existence (or lack thereof) of systematic wage discrimination. Many factors contribute to how much one earns, from occupation and area of specialty to education and years of experience. Not surprisingly, once those factors are taken into account, the wage gap shrinks. 
   Men tend to take jobs that are dirtier, more dangerous, and distasteful than those performed by women. Overwhelmingly, men are the ones working in our sewers, guarding our prisons, laying concrete in the scorching sun, and catching and gutting our fish. They work more graveyard shifts and longer hours, in fact, the Department of Labor estimates that even full-time working women spend about a half an hour less each day on the job than men do. Women disproportionately work indoors, in safe, climate controlled buildings, with regular, or even flexible, hours. More people are interested in working in libraries and school buildings than on the fishing boats featured in Deadliest Catch, which is why physically strenuous, dangerous jobs pay higher salaries. 
   Feminist activists tend to be frustrated with this analysis, and the explanation that the market (not nefarious men) is primarily responsible for women earning less. They don't think it's fair that jobs that require an education, like social work or teaching, are less valued in the marketplace than positions in trucking and sanitation work that require only characteristics like stamina and a high tolerance for filth. 
   They've long championed policies, dubbed as ``comparable worth,'' that would give government officials the power to supersede the market to make sure that women's contributions aren't undervalued. The Paycheck Fairness Act takes steps in that direction. The Department of Labor would issue ``guidelines'' that compare the wages of different jobs to give employers a sense of what is considered ``fair.'' The guidelines may not have the force of law (yet) but certainly would be a powerful specter hanging over employers seeking to avoid costly litigation. 
   And employers would have additional reason to fear that they would be targets for litigation if the Paycheck Fairness Act becomes law. This bill would subject employers to unlimited compensatory and punitive damages, even for unintentional pay disparities, creating potential paydays certain to inspire trial lawyers to action. The bill would also strip employers of the ability to defend differences in pay as based on factors other than sex, such as experience and performance, leaving courts to dictate what constitutes a legitimate pay structure.  
   Of course, no congressional legislation would be complete without a healthy serving of waste, and the Paycheck Fairness Act doesn't disappoint. It would create a new grant program to instruct women on salary negotiation tactics and require the Department of Labor to train employers in strategies for eliminating pay disparities. It seems almost quaint to ask, but where in the Constitution is Congress granted the power to engage in this type of activity? Taxpayers should be outraged that their money is being put to such use. 
   Federal law already outlaws sex discrimination. This legislation would afford women few new protections against actual sex discrimination, but would raise the cost of employment and discourage workplace flexibility. It is exactly what women--and the economy--don't need. If this is what we can expect from the rest of this Congress, Americans should hope for an early recess.  
   Ms. LINDA T. S&#193;NCHEZ of California. I would yield 2 minutes to a distinguished Member of this body, the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Woolsey). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PAYCHECK FAIRNESS ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, Mr. McKeon. I want to continue with what I was saying before. Republicans are deeply concerned about working families. Every day we come to this Congress and we do everything that we can to help those working families. We believe that if any worker is subject to discrimination in the workplace because of their sex, or for any other reason, that that discrimination should be rooted out and punished accordingly. That is why current law protections are so important. Again, we have outlined why those laws are adequate currently. 
   We are also concerned about other workplace policies and proposals that threaten workers' wages, flexibility, and freedom. However, unfortunately, Democrats have once again stifled debate in the House and blocked the minority from offering amendments that address the real concerns of working women and families. 
   They have done the exact opposite of what they promised to do in 2006, make this the most open Congress ever, make this the most ethical Congress ever, make this the fairest Congress ever. It has been just the opposite of that. 
   Again, what we should be doing today is we should be debating how we can bring down the price of gasoline and heating oil and all of those things that are harming working Americans every day, but instead we are dealing with bills that are going to do nothing but line the pockets of trial lawyers and create what I call high-priced welfare, which are high-priced bureaucratic jobs which don't really do anything to help working men and women in this country, especially working women, increase their pay. 
   We will be stifling businesses. It seems as though they hate business and industry, and want to do everything that they can to shut it down in this country. This bill will certainly help do that. 
   So I say we vote ``no'' on this bill because this bill doesn't do what the title pretends it does, and in fact harms working women. What we need to do is be doing something to bring down the price of energy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (A TEENAGE HERO IN A TIME OF LOSS -- (House of Representatives - June 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, recently communities in North Carolina's Fifth District were hit hard by severe weather in the form of tornadoes. No one was badly injured in the town of Clemmons, North Carolina, when a twister left a trail of destruction leaving several families homeless but thankfully alive. But one young man, Chris Ellis, who is a senior at West Forsyth High School, proved his selflessness and heroism when he rushed to the rescue of his neighbors on Frye Bridge Road in Clemmons. 
   Risking his own safety, Chris ran to the aid of Amber Parker and her two children who were trapped in the wreckage of their collapsed house. His demonstration of uncommon courage in the face of the awesome power of a tornado is nothing short of inspiring. 
   Madam Speaker, I hope the example of Chris Ellis is an inspiration to his entire community as they cope with the loss of homes and memories during this difficult time. In times of suffering, it is always encouraging to know there are selfless souls like Chris ready to lend a hand even at their own personal risk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING HOUSE PAGES -- (House of Representatives - June 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to thank my distinguished colleagues for the comments they have made. I agree with them, and I will not repeat the points that they have made in their comments to you. 
   I often like to look back at what our Founders of this country said about different issues and remind us of the things they brought, because our founders were remarkable people and we are a truly blessed country that they came together at the time that they did. 
   I want to give you a quote from John Adams who was writing about the importance of civic education in 1787. He encapsulated the idea behind the page program in a very simple but profound sentence on the importance of learning about freedom. He said, ``Children should be educated and instructed in the principles of freedom.'' 
   Now, I know you all don't consider yourselves children, but I am sure if John Adams had been here, he would say, ``Young people should be educated and instructed in the principles of freedom.'' 
   The experience of being a page has given you the opportunity to be instructed in the principles of freedom with firsthand experience in the halls of the world's greatest democracy. And that is what the page program is all about. That is one of the reasons I am so honored to serve on the Page Board. Having the fantastic opportunity to interact with you is another reason that I am so honored to serve on the Page Board. 
   You are an excellent group of young people who, in completing this year's program, are embarking on a lifetime of building on your experiences, learning and working in the Nation's Capital. You have performed extremely important functions for us; but I think one of the most important functions that you perform is simply being here and reminding us every day of the people we are serving, and reminding us that the actions we take are going to affect people like you, young people like you who are growing up in this country. 
   I do want to mention that I have had the privilege this semester of having a page here, Max Robertson, who is from the Fifth District of North Carolina. And the only reason I call attention to Max is because I think he is a great example of all of you. You are all model citizens, I think, of our country. You are all civic achievers, like Max. 
   I know that many of you will not want to serve in elective office, but I think all of you will want to be citizens and voters after this experience. I hope that many of you will want to serve in the military, as I know Max has expressed an interest in doing, because that is one of the most sacrificial ways you can serve this country. 
   All of you, your lives and character are examples of the high caliber of students who serve as House pages. It really has been a delight for me to get to know all of you, to answer questions, to share my opinion with you, and to hear your concerns and your issues about things, because we certainly need to get the feedback that we get from you, too. 
   I want to congratulate all of you on successfully completing this program, and I want to wish you all the best in all your future endeavors. And I hope that you will not forget your experience here, and that you will stay in touch with us and let us know other successes that you are having and ways that the page program has impacted your life, particularly in positive ways. 
   I want to thank the chairman, Mr. Kildee, for his leadership on the Page Board and Mr. Bishop and all the other folks who are serving on the Page Board for their wisdom and insights, and the opportunity to serve and lend my few talents to that endeavor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CONVEYANCES UNDER FLORIDA NATIONAL FOREST LAND MANAGEMENT ACT OF 2003 -- (House of Representatives - December 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I would like to echo the sentiments of my colleague and express support for H.R. 1374, which authorizes the sale of 114 acres in the Apalachicola National Forest in Florida, the proceeds of which can be used only to purchase private inholdings from willing sellers. H.R. 1374 passed the Agriculture Committee last week by a voice vote. 
   The land proposed for sale is a small tract that is extremely difficult for the U.S. Forest Service to manage, given its proximity to the City of Tallahassee and the surrounding development. Properties such as this, which contribute little to meeting the Forest Service mission, unfortunately diverts scarce resources from other lands that need management. 
   In addition to relieving the Forest Service of the management problems this tract creates, the bill will also help the agency reduce the number of private inholdings within the forest if the private owners are interested in selling. Inholdings are a common problem throughout many national forests in the East and create significant access and management issues for the landowners and the agency. 
   I urge adoption of this bipartisan legislation, and reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CELEBRATING THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF FOOD LION SUPERMARKETS -- (House of Representatives - December 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Food Lion, a North Carolina business success story, for 50 years of doing business the right way. 
   Food Lion, founded in Salisbury, North Carolina, in 1957, today boasts a chain of 1,300 supermarkets spread throughout the Southeast and mid-Atlantic States. 
   Food Lion's 73,000 employees serve more than 10 million customers every week and embody the ethic that great service in local communities is a formula for a successful and profitable business. 
   This company has shown a true commitment to its employees by offering employees a working environment that focuses not just on good wages, but also integrates working conditions and profit-sharing arrangements that are some of the best in the retail business. 
   And Food Lion's business model doesn't stop at the bottom line or with treating employees right. Food Lion gives back every year to many community organizations and charitable causes, including the Children's Miracle Network, America's Second Harvest Food Banks, Easter Seals, the United Way, the American Red Cross, and local schools. 
   Food Lion represents the type of company that helps make North Carolina and America great. I applaud their 50 years of service to hundreds of communities and wish them many more years of success. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (RECOGNIZING THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE CHRISTMAS TREE INDUSTRY TO THE UNITED STATES ECONOMY -- (House of Representatives - December 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I am deeply honored today to rise as the House considers House Joint Resolution 15, a resolution I authored to recognize the contributions of the Christmas tree industry to the United States economy. 
   As a former Christmas tree grower myself, I can attest to the importance of recognizing this often overlooked, yet highly significant, farming industry. Christmas trees have held a historic place in traditional American family values since 1850. Just as importantly, Christmas trees play a vital role in the North Carolina High Country's economy by providing jobs and livelihoods for thousands of North Carolinians. 
   My district in North Carolina is one of the largest producers of live-cut Christmas trees in the entire country. There are over 1,600 North Carolina growers and approximately 400 choose-and-cut Christmas tree farms across the State. The North Carolina Christmas tree industry is ranked second in the Nation in the number of trees harvested, producing over 19 percent of the real Christmas trees in the United States. 
   North Carolina has an estimated 50 million Fraser fir Christmas trees growing on over 25,000 acres. Representing over 95 percent of all species growing in North Carolina, Fraser firs are grown in North Carolina's western counties, including Alleghany, Ashe, Avery, Haywood, Henderson, Jackson, Macon, Madison, Mitchell, Swain, Transylvania, Watauga and Yancey. 
   The North Carolina Fraser fir Christmas tree is the most popular Christmas tree in North America and is shipped to every State in the United States, as well as the Caribbean Islands, Mexico, Canada, Bermuda, Japan, and other points all over the world. 
   The North Carolina Fraser fir has soft needles with incomparable needle retention, a long-lasting aroma, and more pliable, yet stronger, branches for even the heaviest ornaments. 
   Through a contest sponsored by the National Christmas Tree Association, the North Carolina Fraser fir has been judged the Nation's best and has been chosen for the official White House Christmas tree 10 times, more than any other species, in 1971, 1973, 1982, 1984, 1990, 1993, 1995, 1997, 2005 and 2007. 
   It is my great privilege to say that a beautiful Fraser fir grown by Joe Freeman and Linda Jones of Mistletoe Meadows Christmas Tree Farm in Laurel Springs, North Carolina, presently sits in the White House Blue Room as this year's official White House Christmas tree. 
   The Christmas tree industry supports our economy and the environment. Christmas trees are grown in all 50 States, with North Carolina, Oregon, Michigan, Washington, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, New York, Minnesota, Virginia, California, and Ohio being the top Christmas tree producers. Nationally, there are more than 21,000 Christmas tree growers, and more than 100,000 people are employed in the live-cut Christmas tree industry. 
   Thirty-six million live-cut Christmas trees are produced each year, and 98 percent are shipped or sold directly from Christmas tree farms. Live-cut Christmas trees are a renewable, recyclable resource. There are over 500,000 acres in production for growing Christmas trees in the U.S., and each acre provides the daily oxygen requirement for 18 people.     
   On average, over 1,500 Christmas trees are planted per acre, providing an abundant habitat for wildlife. 
   It can take up to 15 years to grow Christmas trees to retail sale height, a  testament to the commitment growers have to maintain strong and healthy trees. The retail value of all Christmas trees harvested in 2004 was $1.4 billion. Live-cut Christmas trees have been sold commercially in the United States since 1850. By 1900, one in five American families decorated live-cut trees during Christmas. By 1930, the tree had become a nearly universal part of the American Christmas. For generations, American families have traveled hundreds and thousands of miles to celebrate the holiday season together at home around the Christmas tree. This year, more than 10,000 trees were donated to American troops by over 750 Christmas tree farmers across the Nation. These Christmas trees were delivered to over 37 bases across 19 States and over 15 countries abroad to spread the holiday spirit to our men and women in uniform who are bravely and honorably serving our Nation throughout this Christmas season. 
   I would like to thank the chairman and ranking member of the Committee on Agriculture and the majority leader for their assistance in getting this resolution to the floor. I urge my colleagues to support this measure, recognizing this important industry, not just for its economic and environmental impact, but also for its cultural contribution to the Christmas holiday. Thank you to Christmas tree growers across the country for their contribution to our economy, our environment, and our Nation's heritage. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (GEORGE WASHINGTON NATIONAL FOREST LAND CONVEYANCE -- (House of Representatives - December 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I also rise today in support of H.R. 3454 which our distinguished ranking member on the Agriculture Committee (Mr. Goodlatte) has cosponsored with Congressman Boucher. H.R. 3454 requires the U.S. Forest Service to convey, without consideration, 8 acres of the George Washington National Forest in Alleghany County, Virginia, to the Central Advent Christian Church. The conveyance includes a 6-acre cemetery and 2 additional acres between the cemetery and Interstate 64. 
   While typically the Forest Service would sell this property under existing authority, they did not receive any bids when they attempted to sell it. Clearly, the Forest Service should not be in the business of owning a cemetery, particularly that has been managed by the community church since 1941 under a special use permit. The church has tried to acquire the property, but for financial and other reasons has been unsuccessful. 
   The cemetery also creates some management problems for the agency, since there is a fair amount of maintenance associated with it. 
   This conveyance makes sense for the Federal Government and for the community church. It will allow the Forest Service to focus on the land Congress intended the agency to manage. 
   I urge adoption of this bipartisan legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CONGRATULATING APPALACHIAN STATE UNIVERSITY ON THEIR THIRD CONSECUTIVE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP -- (House of Representatives - December 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the third consecutive national football championship won by Appalachian State University this weekend in Chattanooga, Tennessee. The ASU Mountaineers soundly defeated the University of Delaware 49-21 in the football championship subdivision's championship game on Friday before a record-breaking crowd at Finley Stadium in Chattanooga. 
   In taking the 2007 FCS championship crown, ASU becomes the first football team in history to win three consecutive national championships. Friday's win was the crown jewel of an eight-game winning streak that propelled the Mountaineers to their historic ``three-peat.'' 
   2007 was a historic year for football at Appalachian State. The Mountaineers began the year by defeating Michigan in an epic battle that proved to football fans around the country that this team is for real. So it is fitting that a season that began on such a historic note should end with an even greater achievement and place Appalachian State squarely in the record books. 
   This year, ASU went 13-2, defeated one of the most highly ranked teams in football and secured a record three straight national championships. ASU has proven that this is a team not only of skilled athletes led by a dedicated coaching staff, but that this is a team with heart and incredible drive. Friday's game showed how much the Mountaineers are committed to playing the game with excellence every time they take the field. 
   The Mountaineers, led by Coach Jerry Moore, notched their third consecutive championship with stellar play on both the offensive and defensive sides of the ball. They started the game by scoring on three possessions in a row. This put them out to an early 21-0 lead that set the tone for the rest of the game. 
   Quarterback Armanti Edwards, who suffered shoulder injuries earlier in the season, led the team by throwing three touchdowns, running for 89 yards on 18 carries and completing 9 of 15 passes for 198 yards. 
   Running the ball was Kevin Richardson, the Mountaineer running back, who rushed for 118 yards against Delaware in the championship game and padded the Appalachian State lead with two touchdowns. All told, the Mountaineers racked up 358 rushing yards in their 28-point margin of victory. 
   On the defensive side, senior defensive back Corey Lynch wrapped up an illustrious tenure at Appalachian by finishing the game with four pass breakups, making his college career total 52. This gives Lynch the NCAA Division I record for pass defense. 
   What makes this team all the more remarkable for their three straight national championships is how they coalesced around a combination of talent and grit that the sports establishment either ignored or overlooked while the football program at Appalachian just continued to get better and better.  
   There is a taste of America in the Mountaineers' football triumphs. They are a team of hardworking players who know what it means to walk the walk, but who know best what it means to earn the title of champion. This team of scholar-athletes, under the leadership of Coach Moore, has shown America that we don't need famous names or star power to win championships. What counts most are hard work and perseverance. 
   I salute all the players, coaching staff, and the extended ASU family for a third straight national championship. This has been a great year for Mountaineer football, and I expect that next year we will see more of the same. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (REPORT ON IRAQ BY GENERAL PETRAEUS -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, Mr. Gingrey. I appreciate your allowing me to join you and these other very articulate people who are here tonight speaking on this issue. 
   I was not here as a Member of Congress on 9/11/2001, but I am very pleased to be here tonight. As we were outside singing The Star Spangled Banner and our colleagues in the majority were talking about our being united, I was thinking about the fourth verse of The Star Spangled Banner, which very seldom gets sung, but I think is something that is so appropriate for the time that we are in right now. 
   This is the way it goes. I know it by heart, but I didn't want to take a chance tonight, so I am going to look at my notes just in case. It is really my favorite verse. 
 ``O, thus be it ever when free-men shall stand, Between their lov'd homes and the war's desolation; Blest with vict'ry and peace, may the heav'n-rescued land Praise the Pow'r that hath made and preserv'd us as a nation. 
 Then conquer we must, when our cause it is just,  And this be our motto: ``In God is our trust.'' And the star-spangled banner in triumph shall wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave.''  
   When Francis Scott Key wrote those words in 1814, they meant a lot. They mean just as much or more now, and I am, like my colleagues, absolutely appalled at the approach that has been taken to the situation that we are in now by many on the Democratic side. 
   It is appalling that they would question the integrity of the very men and women who are giving them the chance to stand up and lambaste them and slander them the way they are. They completely have forgotten what happened on 9/11. Many American people have forgotten. They don't understand the threat that this country is under and what we are doing to preserve our freedom. 
   There is such irony in the fact that these people would get up and say this again against the people who are risking their lives so they can stand up in the safety of this country and speak freely. It just absolutely blows my mind that they are able to do that. They are being given the ability to speak freely by people risking their lives and people losing their lives every day. 
   There is an arrogance of this Congress too, I think, the arrogance that demanded this report, the arrogance that says we are failing, when, in the face of all of the statistics, things are going so much better. There is an arrogance that says that if there is no strong national government, then things aren't going right. 
   You know, people have forgotten that this country was founded to have a strong local and State governmental structure, and the local and state governmental structures in Iraq are working well. No, it is not going as well as the national level, but compare what we have done with what they have done. We have accomplished very little under the leadership of this Democratic house in the last 8 months; very, very little. You compare that to what they have been able to achieve and think about us. 
   I spoke to a class today, three classes, actually, in my district, and I said to those students, the American people really don't realize in many ways the radical idea that this country was when we were formed. When people came to the United States, before it was the United States, they came here for freedom. They came seeking freedom. All they had ever known was freedom.     
   When Britain tried to clamp down on us, people said we are not going to put up with that. All the people in this country have ever known is freedom. All the people of Iraq have ever known is repression. We have asked them to do in a couple of years what took many years to develop in this country; and, again, it was a totally radical idea never perpetuated anywhere before. And yet they are doing very well at the local and provincial level, just like we did. 
   And now this Congress comes in and says if you don't have a strong national government, you have nothing. You are a failure. That is just not true. And I am simply appalled, too, at the people who want us to lose. How can they not understand the impact of our losing the war against the radical Islamic jihadists? This is not a war in Iraq; this is a worldwide war. One piece is in Iraq, and in many ways we are blessed that we have a concentration there where we can deal with it, because we are stopping them all over. They have not attacked us again. We have successfully defended ourselves from another attack, but they simply do not want to acknowledge it. All they see are the negatives, nothing positive. 
   And I, again, am appalled at the attitude of the people who want the United States of America to fail. My attitude to them is if you can find a better place to live, go live there. If you can't, then stay here, help us defend this country. Help us support our troops willingly to fight for our freedom. Help us to bring liberty to other places in the world. Then we will see a safe world. If not, go someplace else and live. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE PELOSI PREMIUM -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, Madam Speaker. 
   I'm here to talk about the Pelosi Premium. Once a nightmare scenario, $4 gasoline may soon become a harsh reality on Speaker Pelosi's watch. Today, drivers are paying a dollar more per gallon at the pump than when the Speaker took office. This Pelosi Premium is hitting working families hard at a time when they are confronting soaring costs, a slowing economy and a housing crunch. Middle-class families and their increasingly tight budgets need relief, not more broken promises. We're operating under a set of broken promises. 
   Speaker Pelosi promised the American people a commonsense plan to lower gasoline prices, but House Democrats have not only failed to offer any meaningful solutions, they've put forward policies that will have precisely the opposite effect. We cannot tax middle-class families' and truckers' tanks from empty to full. 
   Speaker  Nancy Pelosi on 4-18-2006: The Democrats have a plan to lower gas prices. 
   Speaker  Nancy Pelosi on 4-24-2006: Democrats have a commonsense plan to help bring down skyrocketing gas prices. 
   August 4, 2007, Democrats have voted those four times to raise taxes in the 110th Congress: January 18, August 4, December 6, 2007, February 27, 2008. The Pelosi Premium continues. 
   Since Democrats took control of Congress, gasoline prices have skyrocketed by more than $1 per gallon forcing worker families to pay a Pelosi Premium at the pump. With reports indicating gasoline prices are beginning to hit $4 per gallon, the Pelosi Premium couldn't come at a worse time for middle-class families already being squeezed by the soaring costs of living. 
   The price we pay for both gasoline and oil is fundamentally an issue of supply and demand, but while U.S. oil consumption has largely remained the same over the past few years, world oil consumption has spiraled to 84 million barrels a day, up nearly 25 percent from 68 million barrels a decade ago. This results in a tremendous increase in prices. 
   As you are fully aware, gas prices have increased by $1.05 per gallon since Nancy Pelosi took control of Congress on January 4, 2007. This represents an increase of nearly 45 percent. 
   At the same time that world oil consumption has skyrocketed, access to world energy supplies has struggled to keep pace. Nowhere has this trend been worse than in the United States which stands today as the only industrialized Nation in the world that refuses to tap 85 percent of our available deep sea energy resources. 
   While the U.S. has held its consumption steady, more needs to be done to build a bridge from where we are today to the renewable and alternative energy future in which we all want to live. In fact, under the Democrats in Congress, we've gone from 50 percent of our oil imports coming from OPEC to 57 percent coming from OPEC in 1 year. 
   But before we achieve those things in the future, we'll have to figure out a way to live, work, and prosper in the present. For too many Democrats, growing our economy today, tomorrow, and next month isn't much of a priority. In fact, the majority has voted four separate times to raise energy taxes in the 110th Congress. But even if we had access to all of the oil in the world, we would need places to turn that oil into gasoline. Regrettably, the U.S. hasn't built a new refinery in 32 years and, in fact, has successfully shut down several at that time. The results are stunning. Today, the U.S. has only 149 operable oil refineries compared with 321 in 1981. That means roughly double the demand now must be handled with half of the number of refineries. 
   Let's remember this fall the broken promises made in 2006 and the Pelosi Premium which is costing us so much money. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (WALLACE S. HARTSFIELD POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - October 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   I rise today to pay tribute to Rev. Wallace S. Hartsfield, a family man, community activist, and man of God. 
   Rev. Hartsfield was born in Atlanta, Georgia, on November 12, 1929. After a 3-year tour of duty with the United States Army, he went on to receive a bachelor of arts degree from Clark College, now Clark Atlanta University. Three years later, in 1957, he received a Master of Divinity degree. 
   The list of honorary degrees Rev. Hartsfield has earned is long and distinguished. They include a Doctor of Divinity from both Western Baptist Bible College in Kansas City, Missouri, and Virginia Seminary and College of Lyncher, Virginia. 
   While his list of academic accomplishments is impressive, the work he has done since the end of his formal education is even more so. His first pastorate was in Pickens, South Carolina, and he served in the States of Kansas, Florida, and Georgia before settling into a position at the Metropolitan Missionary Baptist Church located in Kansas City, Missouri, a place he has preached for over 40 years. 
   Rev. Hartsfield will retire on January 1, 2008, as senior pastor. During his long service to the church, he became affectionately known as the dean of Kansas City Ministers; and the cosponsor of this bill, Mr. Cleaver, has nicknamed him the Godfather of Preachers because of the knowledge he possesses and his impressive oratory skills. He has become a mentor not only for those in the local ministry, but for community leaders as well. 
   His steadfast dedication to Kansas City and the surrounding area have helped solidify the community and shape it into what it is today. However, his leadership and influence have extended well beyond the boundaries of his duty as a minister. He has fought to promote, protect, and ensure civil liberties for all races, not only at home but across the Nation. And he served as president of the greater Kansas City chapter of Operation PUSH, an organization dedicated to the promotion of religious and social development and human rights. 
   He is a former chairman of the Congress of National Black Churches that represents over 65,000 churches. He has also served in many positions within the National Baptist Convention of America. 
   The reverend was appointed by the Governor to serve as commissioner on the Missouri Highway Commission and was at the forefront of efforts to construct the Metropolitan Homes, a 60-unit low-income housing development. 
   Despite all of his work and the demands for his time and attention, they did not detract from his love for his family. The reverend just celebrated his 50th anniversary with his wife, Matilda Hopkins. They are the proud parents of four children. 
   Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me, Mr. Cleaver, and all of the members of the Missouri delegation in congratulating Rev. Hartsfield on his retirement, wish him well in his new endeavors, and join us in supporting the naming of the post office facility on Blue Parkway in Kansas City in his honor. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY -- (House of Representatives - October 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, fiscal responsibility is the cornerstone of a strong economic plan, and House Republicans are dedicated to ensuring that American taxpayers are getting the best product for their money. Unfortunately, I can't say my Democrat colleagues feel the same way. 
   We are 3 weeks into fiscal year 2008, and for the first time in a long time Congress has not sent the President a single appropriations bill. One of these bills funds our veterans, and they deserve the benefits they were promised; yet politics has taken over the Democrat leadership, and their failure is costing veterans over $4 billion in new benefits. 
   The Democrat majority also has failed to deliver on promised earmark transparency that would shed light on every earmark, and we're continuing to see abuses within the system. 
   At almost every opportunity, the Democrat leadership has increased spending and increased taxes to pay for these spending binges. It's time to get back on track to finding commonsense solutions and stop using taxpayer dollars like it's an unlimited source of money. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HOUSE RESOLUTION 106, THE ARMENIAN GENOCIDE -- (House of Representatives - October 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate very much that recognition, and I appreciate the Republican leader giving me this opportunity tonight to participate in our Special Order. 
   I am here tonight to talk about something that happened last week in the Foreign Relations Committee and to talk about something that is proposed to happen here in the House between now and the middle of November when we are supposed to be taking a break for Thanksgiving. I am here to talk about House Resolution 106, the Armenian genocide resolution. I am, as I have said before here many times, an extremely proud Member of the House of Representatives. I am so pleased to be able to represent the people of the Fifth District of North Carolina. However, when I came here, I took an oath, an oath to defend the Constitution and uphold the Constitution. I did not take an oath to say that I would ignore the good of the United States for the good of the Fifth District of North Carolina. 
   I thought that everyone who came here understood that our Number 1 responsibility is to work together as a group on behalf of the entire United States of America. Certainly we should do all we can to represent our districts, and I believe that every Member does that. But there are times when we must put aside provincial interest for the good of this country. 
   I am very disappointed that last week the Foreign Relations Committee voted out of that committee a resolution that I think puts the good of the United States in second place to the good of a small interest group. We should never do that as Members of Congress. We should assume that the oath that we take is like the doctor's oath, above all, do no harm. The resolution that was passed out of that committee last week does harm to the United States of America and does harm to people in Turkey and in other parts of the world. That is not what we should be about. The action that was taken last week and the proposed action for a vote on the floor by the entire House has been called by many others the most irresponsible act of this Congress. I agree with that. 
   I am particularly concerned that the Speaker of the House is the person pushing this resolution. She is third in line to be President of the United States. And exhibiting behavior that shows such provincial interest does not give me great comfort in thinking that if something were to happen and the Speaker were to assume the Presidency, that she would have the presence of mind to do what needs to be done for the good of this country. It is simply not being exhibited by her behaviors, by pressing this resolution and by other things that she has done. I am quite concerned about it. 
   Many people have written this Speaker, many editorials have been written saying, don't do this. This will do harm to the United States. This will do harm to Armenians. This is not the right thing to do. 
   I want to talk a little bit about the history of Turkey, our relationship with Turkey, and give a little bit of background to people who may not be so familiar with Turkey as a country and with what has happened there and talk about why, again, this resolution is so wrong not just at this time, but at any time in the history of this country. The Republic of Turkey was formally established on October 29, 1923, with the leadership of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. He was the visionary leader of modern Turkey and became its first president. You see, Turkey wasn't even a country in 1915 at the time that the events that are being discussed in House Resolution 106 are talked about. The fall of the Ottoman Empire was occurring during that period of time. And so bringing these charges against Turkey is wrong because Turkey didn't exist as a country. 
   Turkey is the only secular pluralistic westward-looking democracy with a predominantly Muslim population. I have been to Turkey. I have been to Turkey several times. I have gotten to know the Turkish people and know them for the wonderfully warm, kind, intelligent and entrepreneurial people that they are. We are so fortunate to have them as our ally. Turkey has a significant and constructive physical and influential reach in the Balkans, the Middle East, the Caucasus and Central Asia. The United States and Turkey share common values of democracy, diversity, tolerance, social mobility, the separation of religious and civic life. 
   Anatolia, the home of the Republic of Turkey, has been the cradle of civilizations for millennia. The city-states of the Lycian Federation located in Patara, Turkey, inspired the Founding Fathers of the United States as they wrote the Constitution of the United States. Indeed, there is a figure of Suleyman here in the House Chamber. We recognize Suleyman as one of the great lawgivers of the world.     
   Again, the United States and Turkey have been close friends and allies for more than half a century. Turkish Americans are leaders in many walks of life, ranging from the arts, science, academia and business, and have a proud heritage. Turkish Americans are good-will ambassadors of the friendship between the United States and Turkey. In celebrating their rich cultural heritage, Turkish Americans enrich society in the United States and the United States' understanding of that part of the world. 
   Mr. Speaker, Turkey is becoming a reliable energy hub for the Western world, in a highly volatile region, completing the East-West Energy Corridor. For decades, Turkey has stood as the bulwark of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, NATO, on the southeastern flank of the alliance, and guarded a long common border with the Soviet Union. 
   Turkey has become an important partner of the United States in facing new, major challenges, such as international terrorism, ethnic and religious extremism and fundamentalism, energy and security and diversity, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and international organized crime, including drug and human trafficking. This has been especially true since the Cold War ended. 
   In July, 2006, the United States and Turkey signed a ``shared vision document'' outlining a strategic vision for bilateral cooperation and coordination on a wide range of international matters of common concern. In 2006, and so far in 2007, Turkey has been the 30th largest market for United States exports and the 44th largest source of imports. 
   Mr. Speaker, Turkey continues to play an important role in Afghanistan, having twice commanded the International Security Assistance Force, and maintains a provincial reconstruction team in Afghanistan which builds hospitals, schools and roads. It plays a crucial role in helping supply services and equipment to United States forces in Iraq. 
   Turkey, again, has had an extraordinarily proud history and has been a very close collaborator with the United States in doing good things all over the world, but especially in its part of the world. We as Americans need to recognize the important role that Turkey has played, again, from the early millennium, and the importance that it plays in keeping peace in that part of the world. 
   I had the opportunity to go to Turkey in May of this year, along with five other Members of Congress. There were three Democrats and three Republicans. We visited the Armenian Patriarch and we visited the Jewish community while we were there. We visited all the major players in the Turkish government while we were there. 
   Turkey this year has gone through some challenges to its constitution. It has worked out those challenges. It has held elections. It has gone through some crises and handled them extremely well. We are very proud of the way that all of those things have been handled. 
   When we talked with people in Turkey, we heard over and over and over again how devastating this resolution would be to our relationship with the Turkish people. We heard from the Armenians in Turkey that this was a mistake. They told us over and over again that this is something people in the United States are pushing, that Armenians in the United States are pushing. They said ``We do not want this done.  We are working out our differences here in Turkey, and working them out very well. Please do not pass this resolution.'' 
   My three Democratic colleagues who went on that trip are all opposed to this resolution. The Republicans are opposed to it. This is a mistake. The Speaker should not be pandering to people in her own district and risking the friendship that we have with Turkey, and indeed risking our military endeavors in the Middle East. But that is what she's doing. 
   Again, I want to say that many people have called this the most irresponsible act of this Congress. I think that that is appropriate. 
   Mr. Speaker, let me share with you some other people who have expressed their interest and concern and opposition to this resolution. Eight former Secretaries of State, Democrats and Republicans, sent a letter to Speaker Pelosi. I want to quote from that letter, dated September 25, 2007: 
   ``We are writing to express concern that H. Res. 106 could soon be put to a vote. Passage of the resolution would harm our foreign policy objectives to promote reconciliation between Turkey and Armenia. It would also strain our relations with Turkey and would endanger our national security interests in the region, including the safety of our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   ``We do not minimize or deny the enormous significance of the horrible tragedy suffered by ethnic Armenians from 1915 to 1923. During our tenures as Secretaries of State, we each supported Presidential Statements recognizing the mass killings and forced exile of Armenians. It has been longstanding U.S. policy to encourage reconciliation between Turkey and Armenia and to urge the government of Turkey to acknowledge the tragedy. We understand the administration continues to urge the Turkish government to re-examine its history and to encourage both Turkey and Armenia to work towards reconciliation, including normalizing relations and opening the border. 
   ``There are some hopeful signs already that both parties are engaging each other. We believe that a public statement by the U.S. Congress at this juncture is likely to undermine what has been painstakingly achieved to date.'' 
   They go on to say: ``We must also recognize the important contributions Turkey is making to U.S. national security, including security and stability in the Middle East and Europe. The United States continues to rely on Turkey for its geostrategic importance. Turkey is an indispensable partner to our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, helping U.S. troops to combat terrorism and build security. By providing the U.S. military with access to Turkish airspace, military bases and the border crossing with Iraq, Turkey is a linchpin in the trans-shipment of vital cargo and fuel resources to U.S. troops, coalition partners and Iraqi civilians. 
   ``Turkish troops serve shoulder to shoulder with distinction with U.S. and other NATO allies in the Balkans. Turkey is also a transit hub for non-OPEC oil and gas, and remains key to our efforts to help the Euro-Atlantic community bolster its energy security by providing alternative supply sources and routes around Russia and Iran. 
   ``It is our view that passage of this resolution could quickly extend beyond symbolic significance. The popularly-elected Turkish Grand National Assembly might react strongly to a House resolution, as it did to a French National Assembly resolution a year ago. The result could endanger our national security interests in the region, including our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, and damage efforts to promote reconciliation between Armenia and Turkey. We strongly urge you to prevent the resolution from reaching the House floor.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (LOUISIANA ARMED SERVICES VETERANS POST OFFICE -- (House of Representatives - October 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Madam Speaker, I rise today to urge passage of H.R. 2089, to designate the U.S. Postal Service location at 701 Loyola Avenue in New Orleans as the Louisiana Armed Services Veterans Post Office. 
   From the Battle of New Orleans in the War of 1812, to the Chinese Bandits who laid the groundwork for U.S. air superiority in the Asian theater in World War II, to LTG Russell Honore's leadership of the military response to Hurricane Katrina, Louisianans have been at the forefront of defending this country from the time of its founding to this very day. 
   Louisiana's fighters have always been known for being a little tougher, a little wilder, a little crazier, if you will, than their counterparts from elsewhere. It made them perfect for some missions, but not so perfect for others. But the end result always has been that they have been quick in the Bayou State to take up arms whenever their country needed them. 
   Consider Claire Chennault. In 1937, Chennault, a captain in the U.S. Army Air Corps, progenitor of the Air Force, resigned his commission to go to China on behalf of Madam Chaing Kai-shek to help the Chinese build an air force to fend off the Japanese. He did not leave until World War II ended in 1945. In the interim, he helped organize an air force that featured strategically located airfields and an air raid warning system built from scratch that protected all of what was then known as Free China. Without his work, American air power could not have functioned in China. Later, Chennault was to describe the air raid warning system as a vast spider net of people, radios, telephones, and telegraph lines that covered all of Free China accessible to enemy aircraft. In addition to continuous intelligence of enemy attacks, the net served to locate and guide lost friendly planes, direct aid to friendly pilots who had crashed or bailed out, and helped guide our technical intelligence experts to wrecks or crashed enemy aircraft. 
   In other words, something out of nothing. The same as the muskets Louisianans used to fend off the British in New Orleans, and General Honore used to help rebuild Louisiana after Katrina. It is a tradition well worth honoring, and this measure does just that. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (NATE <b>DETAMPLE POST OFFICE BUILDING </b> -- (House of Representatives - October 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   It is an honor for me to speak today about an American hero who showed great bravery and loyalty to his country well beyond his 19 years. 
   On August 9, 2005, a roadside bomb took the life of Nate DeTample, extinguishing his hopes and dreams, an ending to what, by all accounts, was an exemplary life. 
   During his high school years, Nate DeTample was remembered as an impressive young man and an extremely nice guy. 
   His personality was such that he always reached out to others with a handshake and asked how they were doing. He showed great leadership and ability as a wrestler for Pennsbury High School. One of his coaches remembered him as a hard worker and always being the first to practice. 
   It was Nate's dream to become a police officer, much like his father, Glenn, a detective for the Lower Makefield Police Department. With this dream in mind, Nate joined the National Guard after he graduated and headed off to college at Shippensburg University, where he majored in criminal justice. He was, however, called to serve his country before he could complete his first year of study. Some might have complained, but Nate believed in the mission and served to the best of his abilities. 
   Upon learning of Nate's death, the flag at the Lower Makefield Police Department was flown at half mast. This was a fitting tribute for someone who paid the ultimate sacrifice for his country and his community. It is also a fitting tribute that we give the post office on West Trenton Avenue in Morrisville, Pennsylvania, his name so that we may not forget his courage, his bravery and the price he paid for us. 
   Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me in support of this fitting tribute. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THIS IS NOT A FAILED ECONOMY -- (House of Representatives - June 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, this is not a failed economy. We are not in a recession. What a shame that Democrats want to talk down the economy. 
   Under a Democratic President, 6 percent unemployment was considered full employment. Unemployment now is 5.5 percent, not indicative of a failed economy. What is a problem are high gas prices brought to us by a failed Democratically controlled Congress, failed Democratically controlled Congress, a do-nothing-to-reduce-gas-prices Democratically controlled Congress. 
   Americans want us to do something to reduce gas prices, but Democrats continue to stonewall because they think they can blame President Bush and help themselves. What a shame. 
   We can bring down prices by producing American energy products. Let's do it now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (RED TAPE DELAYS RESCUE -- (House of Representatives - October 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, homeland security and the safety of our men and women in uniform should be on the front of everyone's mind in Congress. Yet, we are here again this week discussing a Democrat bill that fails to provide our intelligence community the tools necessary to monitor terrorist activity. The Democrat RESTORE bill does nothing to streamline a process that is hampered by endless red tape and severely slows the reaction time between Washington and our battlefield commanders. 
   Intelligence opportunities sometimes exist for minutes, and we need the flexibility to monitor activity that can save lives. The article in the New York Post yesterday is a perfect example. The current law delayed a rescue mission by 10 hours. Our troops should never have to wait 10 hours for permission to rescue them. 
   I urge my Democrat colleagues to reconsider the RESTORE Act. We should focus our efforts on a bipartisan approach to our national security, not on legislating defeat. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (WE HAVE OTHER CHOICES THAN THIS CHOICE -- (House of Representatives - September 28, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, many people know the famous speech from Henry V called: ``We few, we happy few, we band of brothers.'' 
   So, with apologies to William Shakespeare, I want to say that I believe there will be a band of patriot Representatives here today and tomorrow who will resist being led into making an egregious mistake for this Nation. Neither September 28 nor 29 is a particularly significant day, but we will long remember what we do on these days. We face a challenge to our country and to our way of life if what has been told to us is presented on this floor for a vote, and I urge my colleagues not to be fooled by it. 
   We will not be a happy few if we are presented a plan that takes $200 billion to $700 billion from our taxpayers to try to solve a problem caused primarily by other Members of this body who simply do not understand fundamentally what has made this country great, but we will be right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (A-PLUS ACT (NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND REFORM) -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to address important changes to the No Child Left Behind Act. I recently held a roundtable discussion on this issue with my constituents from all over the Fifth District held in Forsyth County, North Carolina. It was a great opportunity for me to hear from superintendents, board of education members, principals and teachers from across the district about their concerns with No Child Left Behind and their recommendations for program improvements. 
   As a member of the House Committee on Education and Labor, it was important for me to hear firsthand what educators believe is working and is not working in No Child Left Behind. 
   One of the main concerns brought to me during this roundtable was the role that special education students play in the Federal oversight process. Due to the wide-ranging needs and challenges faced by special needs students, it is becoming increasingly difficult for schools to meet Federal standards.  
   It is apparent that the subgroup of special needs students is not accounted for in the way No Child Left Behind enforces standards on a state-wide basis. In fact, the unique needs of special needs students is often the only reason many of North Carolina's excellent schools do not reach AYP, or average yearly progress. 
   Based on what North Carolina's educators are saying, the A-PLUS Act is a step in the right direction that responds to the needs of our teachers and students. 
   The A-PLUS Act preserves States rights while keeping essential funding for our schools intact. 
   Instead of cumbersome Federal mandates that take a cookie-cutter approach to education, the A-PLUS Act would give States the constitutional freedom to set their own education policies, based on the needs of their students, without burdensome Federal Government intrusion. 
   This bill reduces the burden that Federal financial support poses on education programs so that teachers can focus on educating instead of paperwork and bureaucratic mandates. We have many wonderful teachers out there doing their best every day to do their job, and they are distracted from doing their job by this paperwork. 
   By giving States back their full constitutional right to set education policy, this bill will encourage innovative solutions to the unique education issues faced by every State. 
   The A-PLUS Act provides States and their local communities with maximum freedom and flexibility to determine how to improve academic achievement and implement education reforms. 
   State and local governments should be in control of education policies, and the Federal Government's limits the responsibility should lie in providing incentives and accountability. Thus, A-PLUS allows States and local school systems the freedom to set up local accountability plans. 
   In conclusion, local accountability places the emphasis where it should be, on students, parents and teachers, instead of on an often unresponsive Federal bureaucracy. 
   And I want to support the comments made by my colleague from New Jersey, who reminds us that the Constitution doesn't have the word ``education'' anywhere in it. It is not the role of the Federal Government to provide for the education of our children. It is the role of the States, the localities and parents, and I applaud him for bringing that to our attention. We need to have that brought to our attention every time the Federal Government starts getting involved in an inappropriate way. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE OFFICIAL TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to thank you, Congressman Price, for continuing to make sure that the Official Truth Squad is represented here in Special Orders and that we continue to hold the majority accountable for telling the truth. They forget that a good part of the time; so I am very pleased to continue to be a member of the Official Truth Squad. 
   My colleague has shared some of the concerns that I have already with this legislation that we are talking about that nobody has actually seen, the supplemental war funding bill that we think that the Democrats are going to unveil this week. We believe that it is laden with a great deal of unnecessary pork which is being used to buy votes on behalf of the Democrats to try to get the legislation passed. It is also, I think, out there to try to make us look bad if we vote against it. 
   But the worst part about this bill is that it is a reckless attempt to curtail the President's power to wage a congressionally approved war. 
   My colleagues on the other side of the aisle simply need to understand that this misguided proposal will serve only to hamstring our generals as they work to bring peace and democracy to this tumultuous region. And again my colleague that has spoken before me, Congressman Kline, I think has done a great job of talking about what the generals have said and what they need, and we know that the Democrats very selectively take quotes out of what General Petraeus has said. 
   And I agree with you, Congressman Price, we have both a military and a political war to win in the Middle East, and we are going to do that. I have every conviction that we are going to do that. But I think it is very interesting, as Congressman Kline pointed out, that even the very liberal mainstream media understands that this slow-bleed strategy on the part of the Democrats is absolutely wrong. It is such a cynical thing that they are proposing to do. And I think that the L.A. Times editorial, ``Do we Really Need a General Pelosi?'' is so appropriate. These people promised so much to get elected last fall, and the kinds of things they are doing are so far away from what they promised to do. And getting involved in micromanaging the war is absolutely the opposite of what they should do. 
   I am going to quote some of what nobody else has quoted from the editorial. It went on to call the bill ``an unruly mess, bad public policy, bad precedent, and bad politics ..... It was one thing for the House to pass a nonbinding vote of disapproval. It's quite another for it to set out a detailed timetable with specific benchmarks and conditions for the continuation of the conflict.'' 
   And we saw this morning a replay of a press conference where even the Democrats couldn't agree on what the timetables are that they are setting up. They talk about 2007, they talk about August, they talk about April. Even they are very, very confused about it. But the L.A. Times article goes on to say: ``This is the worst kind of congressional meddling in military strategy. If Congress accepts Bush's argument that there is still hope, then lawmakers have a duty to let the President try this`'surge and leverage' strategy. 
   ``By interfering with the discretion of the Commander in Chief and military leaders in order to fulfill domestic political needs, Congress undermines whatever prospects remain of a successful outcome. It's absurd for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to try to micromanage the conflict, and the evolution of Iraqi society, with arbitrary timetables and benchmarks.'' 
   I mean even when the liberal press comes out against you, you have got to know that something is wrong with what you are planning to do. 
   The Washington Post has described the Democrats' slow-bleed strategy as leading ``not toward a responsible withdrawal from Iraq but to a constitutional power struggle with Mr. Bush, who has already said he will veto the legislation. Such a struggle would serve the interests of neither the Democrats nor the country.''  
   I think these people are so detached, they are so focused on what they see as their power, one they think through an overwhelming majority, which was not an overwhelming majority in the fall, but they think that they now have all power. They don't want to just be Members of Congress. They want to be the President. And I think that it is ridiculous that they want to do that. 
   Like my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I want to see America's troops come home as soon as possible. But the best way to do that is to achieve victory in Iraq. 
   Somebody pointed out in the last few days that we never hear the word ``victory'' out of the mouths of any Democrat, and I started listening for that and I think the American people need to listen for that. The Democrats want us to lose in Iraq. They want to be able to prove that this was not a good war. I think for their own political purposes they would like to see us lose. They never mention victory. 
   If we don't secure Iraq before we leave, we will be encouraging the terrorists and insurgents by convincing them that their war of attrition has been successful. 
   I want to emphasize again what has been said before. There are very good reasons why our founders set up congressional oversight and accountability for presidential war powers, but micromanaging legitimate wars on the basis of political considerations was never one of them. This Congress needs to focus on our constitutional duty to provide long-term oversight. Not enough of that has been done. We need to do more of that. But to set a precedent of micromanaging a war is short-sighted and extremely dangerous. We need to get back to doing what Congress should be doing and leaving the execution of this war to the President and the generals who are there to do it, and let us do our job. We don't do well enough as it is. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING HOWARD COBLE FOR BEING THE LONGEST-SERVING NORTH CAROLINA REPUBLICAN IN U.S. HOUSE HISTORY -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, today is a special day in the history of North Carolina, this Congress, and especially in the life of public service led by Congressman Howard Coble from North Carolina's Sixth Congressional District. 
   Today, Congressman Coble becomes the longest-serving Republican from North Carolina in the history of the House of Representatives. His nearly 24 years of congressional service eclipses the record of service previously held by Jim Broyhill, who served from 1963 to 1986. 
   Howard has a sterling reputation as a man of integrity and principle, a representative who stands for what is right and who fights on behalf of what makes America a great Nation. He is a truly independent voice for North Carolina and Washington. I consider it a profound honor to call Howard a dear friend, and I always look forward to working with him in Congress on behalf of the people of North Carolina. 
   In addition to his unimpeachable character, Howard Coble is a champion for his constituents, whether he is working in Washington or back in North Carolina. He is passionate about constituent service, and he never backs down from a challenge to do what makes sense for those he represents in North Carolina's Sixth District. 
   His North Carolina values of hard work, common sense and sacrifice, on behalf of those he serves, have made Howard not just the longest-serving Republican from North Carolina but also a tremendously effective legislator. 
   The dean of the North Carolina delegation is also in possession of one of the sharpest wits in Congress. He is renowned for his deadpan humor and loves a good joke, even if it's at his own expense. As I am sure his constituents are aware, Howard is always ready with a cheerful greeting and a welcoming smile for whoever crosses his path. 
   In fact, many of those who meet HOWARD for the first time will quickly realize his affection for his constituents in his district. He can hardly meet a constituent without inquiring about their high school alma mater and then rattling off their high school's mascot. 
   It's not just that Howard knows the high school mascot of every high school in his district, it's that he cares about the little details that mean so much to average North Carolinians. Perhaps the most fitting summary of Howard's personality is that he is the essence of what it means to be a southern gentleman, someone who simply exudes kindness, charm and compassion. 
   Of course, Howard's sharp wit can be a two-edged sword. Last month his sense of humor almost killed someone. At the North Carolina GOP convention, he cracked a joke to Senator Robert Pittenger, who is campaigning to become North Carolina's lieutenant governor. Pittenger nearly expired after choking on his meal in mid-chuckle. Reliable sources have hinted that the joke might have been a variation of Howard's feisty mountain woman one-liner that he routinely uses to describe me. Fortunately, former presidential candidate Mike Huckabee was there to rescue Pittenger from Howard's humor with a well-placed Heimlich maneuver. 
   All kidding aside, one thing I admire most about Congressman Coble is the fact he has served so long and so admirably while still retaining the North Carolina values that helped bring him to Congress 24 years ago. He has no doubt seen much during his tenure from the last days of the Soviet Union and the fall of the Berlin Wall, to the heady days of the implementation of the GOP's Contract with America in 1995, and then the dark days after September 11. Throughout it all, Congressman Coble has been a consistent, caring legislator who represents the very best of our great State of North Carolina. 
   Today, I salute Howard Coble, my friend, for his many years of service. On this historic day, I wish him many more years of faithfully serving his constituents and his country. 
   Howard is truly one of a kind. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (COMMENDING THE 2008 WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES CHAMPION ARIZONA STATE SUN DEVILS -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleague from Delaware for yielding me some time. I want also to congratulate the Arizona State University softball team for its championship. And I think a lot about what is happening to American families this year, this summer, as they want to go out and watch their children play softball, watch their children play baseball, get involved in other sports, and realize how the price of gasoline is impacting that opportunity, those opportunities that they would like to have. They want to be able to do all those things they have been doing for years. 
   We live in the greatest and freest country in the world, but we are in danger right now because we are not energy independent. We are very dependent on importing oil and gas. But the American people understand we don't have to do that; that we can be energy independent. And what they want us to do is what the Republicans have said we should do, which is develop an all-of-the-above strategy. 
   There is poll after poll after poll to show that the American people want access to more American-made energy which will help alleviate the pain at the pump. 
   What is stopping us from doing that? One group of people, Washington Democrats, the leadership of this House of Representatives and the Senate. They alone stand in the way of exploration for new domestic resources that will immediately bring down the price of gasoline and allow these families to pursue their summer pursuits. 
   I want to quote from some polls that have recently been done, again, which back up what House Republicans want to do, all of the above. We want conservation, we want increased use of alternative and renewable energy, and we want environmentally sound production of American resources. 
   Fox News Poll: 76 percent of Americans ``support immediately increasing oil drilling in the United States. More than seven in 10 Democrats hold this view.'' 
   CNN/Opinion Research Poll: ``73 percent of the more than 1,000 Americans surveyed from June 26 to June 29 said they favored offshore drilling for oil and natural gas in U.S. waters.'' 
   The Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg Poll: ``When all registered voters were asked whether they support increased exploration for oil and natural gas, 68 percent responded in the affirmative.'' 
   Rasmussen Reports: ``According to Rasmussen, 67 percent of Americans support oil drilling off the Nation's coast, 64 percent think it will lower gas prices.'' We all know the minute we announce we are going to drill, we are going to see lower gas prices. 
   The IBD/TIPP Poll: ``Support for offshore drilling and oil shale development is also broad-based, with the former favored by 64 percent of respondents and the latter by 65 percent.'' 
   Reuters/Zogby Poll: ``Most Americans support more U.S. oil drilling. 59.6 percent of Americans surveyed in that poll released June 18 said they favor government efforts to boost domestic drilling and refinery construction to cool record prices.'' 
   Again, I want to congratulate the Arizona State University softball team on their national championship. And I want to say to the Democrats, give us more American-made resources and let Americans pursue going to baseball games, going to softball games, and taking their families to all their summer entertainment this summer. 
   Let's lower the price of gasoline and make it possible. Stop standing in the way. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING THE ASHE COUNTY HIGH SCHOOL ``CANS AND PANS'' STEEL DRUM BAND -- (House of Representatives - April 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. 
   Yesterday, I was honored to join the Ashe County High School ``Cans and Pans'' Steel Drum Band at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center where these fine young people performed for our Nation's wounded warriors. It was a true privilege to give these student musicians, their committed parents and their band director, Scott Turnmyre, a tour of the Capitol before they played for our brave men and women in uniform. 
   Earlier in the morning while we shared breakfast together, I was struck with how unique this group of young people is. Their desire to perform for our Nation's brave men and women in uniform illustrated the depth of their character and the caliber of their families and of the communities that have raised them. Their music, no doubt, lifted the spirits of our troops at Walter Reed Medical Center. The fact that they would travel hundreds of miles was nothing short of inspiring for all who were in attendance. 
   I want to thank Band Director Scott Turnmyre for the long hours and hard work he put into getting this trip together and for rallying the people of Ashe County to this very worthy cause. Their generous donations helped make this trip a reality. 
   The people at the Liaison Capitol Hill Hotel also deserve praise. When they learned about the band's plans to play for the troops at Walter Reed, they graciously reduced the band's room rates during peak tourist season. Kenny Lincoln, Monica Rao and Lisa Schmitt at the hotel went the extra mile to help make this trip possible for the Ashe County Steel Drum Band. 
   Mike Asgedom at the Union Station parking garage also generously reduced the parking rate for the band's charter bus. Here on Capitol Hill, Stefan Bieret and Ted Daniel in the Sergeant at Arms Office provided on-site parking for the bus while Scott, the students and their parents joined me for breakfast in the Capitol and for a tour. 
   Of course, I don't want to forget the fine people serving at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. They took care of every detail from parking to setup to greeting the students. Nancy Popejoy, Dayna Jamison and Latanya Torrence dotted every ``I'' and crossed every ``T,'' and I applaud them for a job well done. 
   I also want to thank Walter Reed Health Care System Commander, Colonel Patricia Horoho. Colonel Horoho took time out of her very busy schedule to thank personally each of the students, and she presented them each with her commander's coin in recognition of their outstanding performance. Colonel Horoho, who also is an Appalachian State University alumna, is a fine example of a dedicated leader who went above and beyond to welcome and to congratulate the students. 
   Yesterday's performance was an illustration of the generosity and kindness of the people of the Fifth District. It was a proud moment for Ashe County High School. The band members' director, Scott Turnmyre, and the parents are to be commended for their service to our wounded warriors at Walter Reed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ANNUAL BUDGET DEBATE -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank you, Congressman Hensarling. And I want to thank you for setting the stage for this discussion tonight. As you said, it is the beginning of many times when we need to be bringing this issue up. I also want to thank you for your leadership of the Republican Study Committee, our party group of conservatives that raises issues every day here on the floor and in committee meetings on the things that the American people believe in and that we fight for every day. 
   Let me reiterate some of what you said and then add some points about North Carolina and raise some other issues that you have not yet gotten to. 
   As you said, under the assumptions in this proposed budget, we will see the largest tax increase in our Nation's history. And I think we need to keep saying that over and over and over again. The Democrat budget increases taxes by $392.5 billion over 5 years, shattering their last record tax increase of $240 billion in 1993. In fact, they would raise taxes, increase taxes by $231 billion in 2012 alone. But the hits just keep coming; and as you pointed out, it is the same playbook that they used in 2003 all over again. 
   It is more than just a reckless policy that endangers the strength of our economy; it is a cause for serious concern for the livelihood of the constituents of the Fifth District in North Carolina and, in fact, people all over North Carolina. We would see in North Carolina more than 3 million taxpayers whose bills would go up. And it wouldn't be just a little bump, either. The average tax increase for the 3.1 million North Carolinians would be $2,671. That is a lot of money. 
   This stark reality underscores the truth of my Democrat colleagues' approach to the Federal budget. 
   They know that the more money they can get out of Americans' pockets, the more money they can spend to expand the Federal Government. That is not what we need. This approach is completely backwards. We should be looking first to put money back into taxpayers' pockets, not taking it out. 
   Furthermore, this current budget proposal is a squandered opportunity to reform spiraling Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid costs and to give Americans the permanent tax relief they deserve. Instead, it allows widespread tax increase that hit middle-income families, low-income earners, families with children, small businesses, and others. 
   Some people would see more than a 100 percent increase in their taxes. For example, an elderly couple with $40,000 in income would see a tax increase of 156 percent in 2011, from $583 to $1,489. And a family of four with $60,000 in income would have a tax bill that would rise from $3,030 to $4,893 in 2011, an increase of more than $1,850, or 61 percent. 
   And these increases are no accident. The Democrats were warned. During budget markup I know that my colleagues introduced many amendments which were all rejected, and these would have prevented the tax increases. But they would not listen. 
   But the budget proposal again isn't a real surprise. It is business as usual for the Democrats and proves that their promises to be fiscally responsible are just empty rhetoric. If this budget is approved, it will signal a return to the Democrats' beloved tax and spend model for government. 
   If you take a look also at the more than $20 billion in pork that was added to last week's troop emergency funding bill, it becomes crystal clear where the Democrats stand on spending. And, worse, they prove they don't mind using our troops as bargaining chips. 
   Democrats have willfully abandoned their pledge of fiscal responsibility. We have talked about it before. They are being very hypocritical in terms of what they promised and what they have done. They pledged to follow pay-as-you-go spending rules and spending restraint to curb the deficit. And then we get this budget which would give us again the largest tax increase in the history of this country and ignore the larger consequences for our economy. 
   These tax increase are going to threaten to reverse the substantial deficit reduction that has occurred in the past several years. We have increased tax revenue from 16.5 percent of GDP in 2003 to 18.5 percent this year, exceeding the average percentage of the past 4 decades. This is a result of those tax cuts that we passed. Tax revenue grew by 14.6 percent in 2005, 11.5 percent in 2006, and already 9.3 percent in the first 5 months of fiscal 2007. This revenue growth was the principle factor in reducing the budget deficit from $412.7 billion in 2004 to an estimated $214 billion this year, according to the Congressional Budget Office. 
   Let me give just a couple more examples of again how people are directly going to be affected by this tax increase and to show the hypocrisy of the Democrats who say all the time that they are trying to help low-income and middle-income people. It will raise the 10 percent tax rate bracket to 15 percent. This will give a tax increase to 5 million individuals and families who don't pay taxes now but would become subject to the individual income tax in 2011 if the Democrats are successful in raising the 10 percent tax bracket to 15 percent. It eliminates the marriage penalty relief that we have had; 23 million taxpayers would see their taxes increase on average by $466. It cuts the child tax credit in half; 31 million taxpayers would see their taxes increase on average by $859 in 2011. 
   Every working American would be affected by the Democrats' tax hike. We have to bring this message to the American public and show them why the Republicans are fighting so hard against this budget that is going to be brought up by the Democrats. 
   And, again, Congressman Hensarling, I applaud your efforts through the RSC and through the Budget Committee for helping us put together this Special Order and giving these facts about the largest single tax increase in American history being proposed by the Democrats. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (GRASSROOTS LOBBYING AND FREEDOM OF SPEECH -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, as part of the Constitutional Caucus, we try every week to raise issues that are of concern to us, because dealing with the Constitution, observing the Constitution and honoring the Constitution is very, very important to us. It is the basis of everything that we do here in the Congress and should be the basis of every lawmaking body in our country. So tonight I want to talk a little bit about the first amendment and a concern that I have about an assault that has been made on the first amendment by a previous Congress. 
   The first amendment clearly states that ``Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech.'' Our Founding Fathers understood the vital role that free speech played in the health and functioning of our democracy. They lived under the restrictions of colonial England, and were very intent on creating a new system of government that respected the right to speech and political expression. 
   One of the strongest proponents of the Constitution's Bill of Rights, Patrick Henry, said: ``Guard with jealous attention the public liberty. Suspect everyone who approaches that jewel.'' 
   Today, as Mr. Henry advised 200 years ago, I look with suspicion at some of the legislation that has emerged from this body. I am suspicious that we have at times not given adequate attention to the ``public liberty'' that Patrick Henry so strongly urged us to guard. 
   Congress must take great care when attempting to control political expression. But, unfortunately, this has not always been the case. In the past, Congress has created laws which restrict organizations' rights to participate in the electoral process. 
   The First Amendment Restoration Act, H.R. 71, would restore America's first amendment rights by repealing the ``electioneering communication'' provision in the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002, known as BCRA. 
   This provision stifles the speech rights of corporations, nonprofits and labor unions. They are prohibited from sponsoring no-PAC funded radio and TV advertisements that include any references to Federal candidates during the 30 days before primary elections and 60 days before general elections. This is a severe infringement on these organizations' constitutional rights to free speech. It communicates to them that they have no right to voice their views during elections. 
   It is a clear violation of the first amendment to restrict the speech of organizations and limit what people can say about a candidate and when they may say it. The Supreme Court, unfortunately, upheld the constitutionality of these restrictions on groups in the days leading up to an election. But the Supreme Court has erred in the past. 
   This bill offers a much-needed correction to the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act. The 30/60 day BCRA provision was an attack on the primary purpose of the first amendment's free speech clause, which is the protection of political speech. This bill fully restores those rights which were hampered by BCRA. 
   We must be vigilant and heed the words of America's founders. They knew firsthand the democracy-choking effect of restrictions placed on political speech. But the minute we begin to craft laws that hamper expression, we demonstrate we have forgotten the priceless lessons of liberty that have been fought for by the patriots who have gone before us. 
   I urge my colleagues to support the First Amendment Restoration Act, H.R. 71. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (OFFICIAL TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Price) works very hard on organizing our Truth Squad and making sure that we are getting the word out about what needs to be gotten out in terms of the issues that are important, I think, to the American people. We are going to talk about the economy and what is happening to the economy in the United States, and I want to talk a little bit about that to begin with until Mr. Price gets here, and I probably will recognize my colleague from Tennessee, who is also here to speak on this issue, and ask him if he would share some comments. 
   The first thing I want to say is that our economy is in wonderful, wonderful shape. It is the best economy that we have had in this country for many, many years. Now, a major reason that the economy is in such great shape is because of the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003. I was not here when those tax cuts were passed, but I am very pleased that they were passed and that they brought about such a positive economy for this country. We have the lowest unemployment rate that we have had in 50 years. We have growth in all sectors. We have more people owning their homes than have ever owned them before. Incomes are up and revenues are up. 
   And I want to say something about revenues, using some information from the Heritage Foundation. Tax revenues in 2006 were 18.4 percent of gross domestic product, which is above the 20-year, 40-year and 60-year historical averages. The inflation-adjusted 20 percent tax revenue increase between 2004 and 2006 represents the largest 2-year revenue surge since 1965 and 1967. 
   There is a myth out there that tax revenues are low. Tax revenues are actually above the historical average, even after the tax cuts. We know that tax cuts are good for this economy; they are always good for the economy. The more money that we leave in the hands and the pockets of our taxpayers, the better off we are. When the government appropriates that money and spends it, the government is very inefficient in its spending of that money, and that does not grow the economy, contrary to what many of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle would like to say. 
   We are going to talk again more and more about the economy and the fact that it is in very good shape. And it is very unfortunate that the economy doesn't get the positive press that the economy has gotten under Democratic Presidents, when in fact most of the time the results of the good economy are coming from a Republican Congress, which knows how to do things in terms of growing the economy. 
   I would like to recognize now my colleague from Tennessee, who is here to make a presentation on this issue, also. I know that he will bring some enlightened points to the discussion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (OFFICIAL TRUTH SQUAD -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank Mr. Davis, the gentleman from Tennessee, for his remarks. And I appreciate his being involved and sharing some information with us that is so important. This is his first term, and he has done a wonderful job. 
   He is my neighbor to the west. His district in Tennessee joins the 5th District in North Carolina. We both live in a wonderful, wonderful place. Every time somebody speaks to me about where I live, they say, what a beautiful place you live in, and I feel that way about it. And I want to say that it is a great honor to serve in Congress, but I can tell you that my feet are planted very firmly on the ground in the 5th District of North Carolina, and I don't ever forget where I came from and the people that I represent. 
   I want to talk a little bit on this issue about the economy that Mr. Price set up today for the Truth Squad. And I know he is going to be here probably very shortly, and when he does I am going to yield back to the Chair and hope that the Chair will recognize him so that he can continue this discussion. 
   I want to talk a little bit today about the economy and an egregious situation that we are facing here in the Congress as it deals with unions. I have come to the floor several times in this session and talked about what I consider the hypocrisy that is going on in this Congress by the majority party. We are having black called white and white called black in terms of pieces of things on the paper. It is astonishing to me the hypocrisy that is going on. And I think there is probably no more greater piece of hypocrisy than this so-called Employee Free Choice Act which has been introduced by the Democrats. It deals with the ability for unions to twist people's arms to get them into unions. 
   The unions have been steadily losing ground in this country for many, many years. My understanding is that the percentage and number of U.S. workers that belong to unions declined again in 2006, after having stabilized a little bit in 2005. BLS data show that only 13 percent of all construction workers were members of building trade unions, and that is down from 18 percent in 2001. 
   There is a steady erosion in the percentage of construction workers represented by unions in the past 23 years. What is happening is because the unions are losing membership, they want to take away the secret ballot. 
   I am going to enter into the Record today several different pieces which I have in front of me that I am quoting from. I am going to quote from a Wall Street Journal article of February 2, and from some other information which I will enter into the Record. But I want to read the beginning of this article from the Wall Street Journal because I think it is so pertinent. It says: ``Why is the new Congress in such a hurry to take away workers' right to vote?'' It seems extraordinary, but the so-called Employee Free Choice Act is right there near the top of the Democrats' agenda. This legislation replaces government-sponsored secret ballot elections for union representation with a public card-signing system. 
   One of the reasons that union membership is down so much in this country is because of the abuses of the unions, and also because our economy is so good. And, again, I think that Representative Price is going to talk more about the economy. I mentioned earlier that it is the best that it has ever been in terms of wages, in terms of income and wages and homeownership and the burden that we place on the American people from the government. But people don't need to join unions like they needed to 125 years ago or so. We did have abuses in this country by employers, and I am very sorry about that, but those abuses don't go on anymore, and people are finding out they don't have to belong to unions. 
   But the Democrats, who are so beholden to unions, want to take the right of a secret ballot, which is so fundamental to us in this country, and which they argue for on this floor for voters, and they want to take it away from union members or people who are thinking about forming a union. And I, again, want to make some quotes, because this article is so excellent. 
   Most important, it is totally unreasonable to deny all 140 million American workers the right to a secret ballot election because some employers break the law. Yes, occasionally somebody may not do what they are supposed to do. Not only is such a remedy disproportionate, it is counterproductive. If one goal is worker empowerment, how can a worker be better off if both his employer and his prospective union boss know his views on the union when the secret ballot is replaced with a public card signing? For the worker, it is the ultimate example of being caught between a rock and a hard place.     
   Mr. Edwards, who is running for President, has said that if you can join the Republican Party, you should be able to join a union by simply signing a card. But Mr. Edwards' analogy is a very false one, because signing a card to join the Republican Party does not oblige you to vote for the Republican ticket in a secret ballot election. And I quote again from the article from the Wall Street Journal: ``The Employee Free Choice Act would take care of that by abolishing such elections. If the Edwards principle was applied to the political process in the 28 non-right to work States, Karl Rove and Republican Party organizers could force all Democrats and Independents to become Republicans and pay dues to the party if a majority of voters signed Republican cards. That's free choice?'' 
   The final proof that this bill is about union power and not worker choice is revealed by its treatment of the flip side of unionization: decertification elections. These are secret ballot elections in which workers get to decide that they have had enough of the union. Under the Employee Free Choice, can a majority of workers decertify the union by signing a card? Not on your life. Here, unions want the chance to engage in a campaign to give workers both sides of the story and maybe do a better job of representing them before the union's fate is decided by a secret ballot vote. 
   Again, the hypocrisy is absolutely mind-boggling, and is just one more example. We have bills called one thing and they do another. It just goes on and on and on. But I think it is very important that we point out this particular hypocrisy, because the title of this bill, the Employee Free Choice Act, is I think particularly egregious in this respect. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back my time.  
   Abrogating Workers' Rights  
   Why is the new Congress in such a hurry to take away workers' right to vote? It seems extraordinary, but the so-called ``Employee Free Choice Act'' is right there near the top of the Democrats' agenda. This legislation replaces government-sponsored secret ballot elections for union representation with a public card-signing system. 
   Under the act, once a union gets a majority of the workers to sign a card expressing a desire for a union, that union is automatically certified as the bargaining representative of, and empowered to negotiate on behalf of, all workers. In the 28 states that do not have right-to-work laws, all employees would typically end up having to join the union or pay the equivalent of union dues whether or not they signed the card. Moreover, under the act, the bargaining process would be shortened, with mandatory use of the Federal Mediation service after 90 days and an imposed contract through binding arbitration 30 days after that. 
   I am sympathetic to the argument that strengthening the negotiating position of workers is good public policy, and that expanding the choices available to them is the best way to accomplish that. So, for example, pension portability unlocks the golden handcuffs that financially bind workers to jobs they may become dissatisfied with after they have become vested. Health savings accounts are an important first step to liberating people from jobs they put up with only because they fear a disruption in health-care coverage. 
   When it comes to unions, it doesn't take a very deep appreciation of game theory to understand that a worker's best position comes when a nonunion company has a union knocking on the door. Indeed, one allegation about ``union busting'' by supporters of the bill is that, during union certification elections, one employer in five ``gave illegal previously unscheduled wage increases while a similar number made some kind of illegal unilateral change in benefits or working conditions.''  
   In other words, they made workers better off. But, never fear, the Employee Free Choice Act will limit these unconscionable increases in pay, benefits and working conditions by imposing fines of up to $20,000 against employers who make such ``unilateral changes.'' Similar penalties will be assessed against employers who caution that unionization may cause them to shut down or move production elsewhere. 
   Sometimes the interests of workers and unions coincide, sometimes they do not. The chief complaint by the bill's sponsors is that unions only win secret-ballot elections half of the time. Apparently workers, after they think things over and when neither the union nor the company knows how they vote, often decide they are better-off without the union. The solution of the Employee Free Choice Act is to do away with such elections. It is hard to see how that ``empowers'' workers. And it is hard not to conclude that this bill has little to do with employee choice or maximizing employee leverage, and everything to do with empowering union bosses and organizers. 
   The unions allege that companies use unfair election campaign tactics and that a pro-employer National Labor Relations Board doesn't punish them. But statistics cited by the leftwing Web site, Daily Kos, on behalf of this allegation come from 1998 and 1999--when the entire NLRB had been appointed by President Clinton. In any event, roughly half the injunctions brought against companies by the NLRB were overturned by federal courts: This does not suggest under-enforcement of the law by the NLRB. 
   All of this does not mean that there are no legitimate complaints about the union certification process. Companies have been found that fired workers for union organizing activities. One careful examination of NLRB data found that there were 62 such cases in fiscal 2005. This is not a large number in a work force of 140 million, or in a year where there were more than 2,300 certification elections. But it is 62 too many, and it would be reasonable to stiffen the penalties for employers who break the law. But it is hard to think of offering more pay or better worker conditions as something that should be punished with draconian penalties, as the Employee Free Choice Act does. 
   Most important, it is totally unreasonable to deny all 140 million American workers the right to a secret ballot election because some employers break the law. Not only is such a remedy disproportionate, it is counterproductive--if one's goal is worker empowerment. How can a worker be better off if both his employer and his prospective union boss know his views on the union when the secret ballot is replaced with a public card signing? For the worker it is the ultimate example of being caught between a rock and a hard place. 
   The political rhetoric in support of this bill is a willful exercise in obfuscation. For example, on the presidential campaign stump John Edwards says, ``if you can join the Republican Party by just signing a card, you should be able to join a union by just signing a card.'' The fact is, you--and everyone else--can join any union you want by just signing a card, and paying union dues and meeting any other obligations imposed by the union. But, under this bill, contrary to Mr. Edwards's false analogy, signing a card to join the Republican Party does not oblige you to vote for the Republican ticket in a secret ballot election. The Employee Free Choice Act would take care of that by abolishing such elections. If the Edwards principle was applied to the political process in the 28 non-right-to-work states, Karl Rove and Republican Party organizers could force all Democrats and independents to become Republicans and pay dues to the party if a majority of voters signed Republican Party cards. That is free choice? 
   The final proof that this bill is about union power, and not worker choice, is revealed by its treatment of the flip side of unionization: decertification elections. These are secret ballot elections in which workers get to decide that they have had enough of the union. So under the Employee Free Choice Act can a majority of workers decertify the union by signing a card? Not on your life. Here unions want the chance to engage in a campaign to give workers both sides of the story--and maybe do a better job of representing them--before the union's fate is decided, by a secret-ballot vote. 
   No one has ever argued that secret-ballot elections are a perfect mechanism, either in politics or in deciding unionization. But they are far and away the best mechanism we have devised to minimize intimidation and maximize the power of the people to really matter, whether citizen or worker. Congress should think a lot harder before it decides to do away with workers' right to vote.   
   The So-Called ``Employee Free Choice Act'' Union Leaders'' Rhetoric vs. The Facts 
   Union Rhetoric: Secret ballot elections take too long and delays of months or years are common. 
   Facts: The average time for an election to be held is just 39 days and 94 percent of elections are held within 56 days. The rare exceptions that take longer hardly justify abandoning the entire secret ballot election process. 
   Union Rhetoric: Card check procedures are the most effective way to determine the wishes of a majority of employees. 
   Facts: Federal courts have repeatedly ruled that secret ballot elections are the most foolproof method of ascertaining whether a union has the support of a majority of employees, noting that, workers sometimes sign cards not because they intend to vote for the union in an election, but to avoid offending the person who asks them to sign (often a fellow worker), or simply to get the person off their back. 
   Union Rhetoric: Employers illegally fire employees in 25 to 30 percent of all organizing drives. 
   Facts: Those who falsely claim employers illegally fire a large number of employees during organizing drives cite to two studies, one by Cornell professor Kate Bronfenbrenner and another commissioned by the pro-union group American Rights at Work. Unfortunately, these reports are in fact surveys of uncorroborated reports of union organizers--hardly an unbiased source. National Labor Relations Board statistics show that employees are illegally fired in just over one in 100 (1 percent) organizing drives. Furthermore, if the NLRB finds that an employer illegally fired workers during an organizing drive it has the power to order the employer to recognize and bargain with the union, even if the union lost the election. 
   Union Rhetoric: The secret ballot election process enables employers to wage bitter anti-union campaigns. 
   Facts: In almost nine out of ten cases the employer and union reach agreement on the most contentious issues surrounding union elections: the scope of the bargaining unit (who is eligible to vote), and the date and time of the election. 
   Union Rhetoric: In an election, management has total access to the list of employees at all times, while union supporters may have access very late in the process to a list that is often inaccurate. 
   Facts: Employers are required to submit complete and accurate lists of employees within one week of the determination that an election will be held. The list is then provided to the union. If the employer fails to provide the list or the list is inaccurate, the Board can set aside the election and order another, especially if errors involve a determinative number of voters. 
   Union Rhetoric: The Employee Free Choice Act gives employees the option of using a card-check system; it does not replace the secret ballot election. Employees are still free to choose a secret ballot process. 
   Facts: The card-check process does not give employees a choice at all. Instead, it gives union organizers the choice of whether to organize through a card check process. If the union chose to submit authorization cards, workers would be barred from seeking an election. In addition, the card check process can cut up to almost half of all employees out of the organizing process because the union only needs signatures from a simple majority in order to gain collective bargaining rights. During the card-check process, those employees who do not want a union do not have a voice and are in effect removed from the process of making decisions about their own jobs.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORT REPUBLICAN SENATORS -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in disbelief at the actions of the Democratic Senators' resolutions against the United States efforts in Iraq. These very same Senators voted unanimously to confirm General David Petraeus. It is unbelievably hypocritical to undermine the efforts of the very man they confirmed, along with all the brave men and women who serve with him. 
   The actions of these Senators will simply encourage the terrorists and undermine the U.S. efforts to succeed in Iraq and the war on terror. Republicans want to debate this issue, yet the Democrats only want to pass a resolution. It is time to take a real stand on the issue. If the Democrats want to end the war, then they should stand up and call for it. 
   The hypocritical actions of the Democrats are wrong. They have offered no plan for success in Iraq and are interfering with the President's powers to execute a war that the Congress has already approved. Democrats must realize there is only one commander-in-chief, and it is his job and responsibility to manage the war as he sees fit. 
   Mr. Speaker, I support my Republican colleagues in the Senate who want a real debate on this issue and victory in the central front on the global war on terror. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SPEAKING THE TRUTH: OPPOSING UNTRUE STATEMENTS ABOUT THE BUDGET -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, this weekend I noticed one of my colleagues in the majority on the Senate side on Fox News Sunday discussing our Nation's Iraq policy. In his conversation with Brit Hume he asserted that our Iraq policy was a failure because of limited progress on the political front in Iraq. 
   Mr. Hume challenged him on this point by pointing out that progress has been made recently in other areas of Iraq. Mr. Hume noted that if a lack of political progress in Iraq was the only thing that mattered, then couldn't people call the Democrats a failure because of their dismal record on enacting their priorities this session of Congress? The Senator from Michigan responded by drumming up a list of Democrat success, the first of which I find to be entirely dubious. 
   He attempted to prove that the majority party has not been a complete failure by first saying the Democrats have adopted a budget for the first time in years. 
   Mr. Hume had asked him, ``My understanding is that you got the minimum wage increase, but nothing else passed. Does that make you a failure?'' 
   The Senator responded, ``Well, no, because it is not true. There is a lot of things that have passed. For the first time in years we have adopted a budget.'' 
   I am not sure if he has been in the same Congress that I have been serving in. He makes it look like it has been years since we passed a budget, and that is simply not true. In 2005, a budget resolution passed the House and the Senate as well as a conference report. In 2006 a budget resolution also passed the House and the Senate without an accompanying conference report. 
   So I am a little confused as to where the Senator is getting his facts. Unfortunately, Mr. Hume did not catch the untrue statement. As a result, the millions of Americans watching the popular Sunday news program were led to believe that somehow the fact that the majority has adopted a budget resolution was an unusual feat, unseen for years in Congress. I wish to set the record straight. 
   Some people might wonder why I call attention to this. My reasoning is simple: The truth matters. When we allow untrue statements to enter the public record, we have allowed the public to be led astray. Those to whom we are accountable deserve so much better. The American people deserve the whole truth, the whole picture, not half truths or dodgy statements intended to cloud a less than stellar record of accomplishment. 
   I will give the Senator from Michigan the benefit the doubt. Maybe he really thought that it has been years since Congress adopted a budget. But if that is the case we have an equally large problem; he can't keep his facts straight. Both problems serve to mislead the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PAYGO AND EARMARK REFORM -- (House of Representatives - January 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss fiscal responsibility and earmark reform. I have spent my entire political career fighting to reduce wasteful spending so Americans can keep more of their hard-earned money. 
   In the 109th Congress, I voted for H. Res. 1000 which provided for earmark reform by requiring full disclosure of earmarks on funding, authorization and revenue legislation so Members and the public will be able to easily identify projects which otherwise may be inappropriately hidden from adequate scrutiny in a timely manner. 
   Earmark reform is important to providing accountability of government spending. It is truly disappointing and a shame that the Democrat leadership coupled it with the fiscally irresponsible policy of PAYGO, which forced many of us to vote ``no.'' PAYGO is based on tenuous economic projections, is unreliable and, simply put, will make it easier to raise taxes and more difficult to give taxpayers back their money. 
   I voted for the Republican motion to commit which included the earmark reform and excluded PAYGO. Unfortunately, the Republican motion did not succeed, and we now face fiscal policies where government can spend more and continually raise taxes on the American taxpayer. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING OUR VETERANS--VETERANS DAY -- (House of Representatives - November 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, this coming week we will celebrate Veterans Day. As we remember the many who have given their lives in service to our Nation, I hope we pause not only to honor their memory, but also to express our gratitude for that which their sacrifices have secured. 
   The many American veterans that we honor today are a reflection of American greatness. The men and women of our Armed Forces throughout our Nation's history have not hesitated to make tremendous personal sacrifices for the cause of freedom. If it were not for our brave and selfless veterans, we would be a land of fewer freedoms and smaller liberties. 
   Throughout our history, our veterans have gone to foreign shores to fight the forces of injustice and tyranny. Today, many live in freedom thanks to their great sacrifices. 
   Our veterans are the first and the finest example of the American hero. They have preserved our peace and they have held back the tide of darkness when the call has sounded to protect our liberty. And these men and women have done and continue to do these things with a sense of duty that has never shirked the great sacrifices, but instead, upholds the mantle of democracy with strength and pride. 
   On Veterans Day, we rightly single out the members of our Armed Forces, past and present, and give them the honor that they do not ask for, but that they so richly deserve. 
   I do not say this lightly, that our veterans are the primary forces that keep and have kept the vision of America alive throughout the centuries. Ours is a vision of freedom for all, a vision of a land where any man or woman can breathe free and lay hold of prosperity, secure in the knowledge that their brave and selfless soldiers, sailors, marines, airmen and coast guardsmen have proven that our cause is worthy of the most profound of sacrifices. 
   We must not take our freedoms lightly. They have been purchased with the blood and sacrifice of many patriots. These patriots have answered the call to service, knowing that a life without liberty is hardly worth living. 
   They've shown us that our freedoms are invaluable and priceless beyond the paltry dividends of a life under the shadow of tyranny or fear or repression. 
   We have much to be grateful for in this Nation. Our freedoms are many and our sacrifices are few in comparison to what our veterans willingly give up. And these sacrifices are made on our behalf so that we might enjoy a liberty that is unrivaled throughout human history. 
   It is therefore a tremendous pleasure to honor the men and women who saw the value of freedom and grasped the threat of tyranny and did not shrink into the twilight. As Thomas Paine said of our freedom on the eve of the American Revolution: ``The sun never shined on a cause of greater worth.'' 
   I thank our veterans for recognizing this cause and rising to its defense with unfailing strength. Our gratitude is tribute to your great bravery and profound sacrifice. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2669, COLLEGE COST REDUCTION AND ACCESS ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, this bill does absolutely nothing to improve access to a college education. It's a sham. It's another move toward socialism and taking away personal responsibility in our country. 
   I probably have the most experience in this area of anybody in Congress. I worked my way through college, through an undergraduate and doctoral programs without any loans whatsoever. It can be done. It is not necessary for people to borrow $19,000 a year to go to college or come out with that kind of a debt. 
   I've served in the field of education. I've been a school board member, higher education administration. I've directed Upward Bound special services programs, and I know what it's like to have, to be operating these programs. We have absolutely no accountability in the programs that we are passing here, and we need to be doing that. 
   The American people want significant and strong education, but they do not want to see us wasting money like we're wasting here. This is called the College Cost Reduction Act. It does absolutely nothing to reduce the cost of going to college. But it starts out a long list of complex new entitlement programs, and my colleagues have spoken very, very eloquently about that. 
   We still are going to have college students stuck with college costs that are going up every week because the Federal Government is involved. We're doing nothing to help the Federal Work-Study Program, which has been one of the most successful programs that the Federal Government has ever gotten into. 
   I can't support a bill that raises the cost of going to college instead of lowering the cost of going to college. This is going to make it even more complicated to do financial aid regulations, even though we're reducing the size of the form. What we need is a workable Federal financial aid system that helps students get a high quality education. But this bill falls far short of that standard by shifting Federal money to the institutions and to loan relief for college grads. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PASS A CLEAN AMT FIX -- (House of Representatives - December 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, how much longer do American taxpayers have to wait for Congress to pass a sensible and fair fix to the alternative minimum tax? This highly punitive tax, originally intended to catch only the worst of tax scofflaws, will hit 23 million middle-class taxpayers next year if Congress doesn't act now. Unfortunately, the majority's delay tactics have already caused a cascade effect that will delay the tax refunds of 50 million Americans. If Congress keeps stalling, things will go from bad to worse. 
   The Senate already rejected a poorly conceived plan that temporarily patches the AMT, but on the condition of enacting a permanent tax hike. Only in Washington does it make sense to make a temporary 1-year tax patch and counter it with a permanent tax hike. 
   Let's stop the charade and pass an AMT fix that protects millions of middle-class Americans from a huge tax increase. If Congress delays any longer, those 23 million taxpayers will be saddled with an unexpected and severe $2,000 tax increase. 
   The Senate sent us a clean AMT bill nearly 2 weeks ago. Before we go home, we need to do the right thing and pass it. American taxpayers deserve no less. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING JACKIE WILLIAMS' SERVICE TO OUR DEPLOYED TROOPS -- (House of Representatives - December 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today to highlight a true hero of the American home front. While our brave men and women of the armed services are stationed abroad, it is more important than ever that average Americans take steps to remind our military personnel that they are not forgotten. 
   Jackie Williams of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, is a home-front hero. Ms. Williams, who owns a candy store called Sweeties, has taken her skills as a connoisseur of sweets and used them to brighten the days of our deployed men and women. 
   To date, she has organized local community organizations, businesses and families to send more than 300 care packages to our troops. These packages, which she has dubbed ``Goodies Ready to Eat,'' or GREs, have been encouraging our men and women in uniform around the world since this past July. 
   The work and care of Ms. Williams and those like her is a priceless contribution to our troops' morale as they are stationed around the world and away from their families. I applaud her for her commitment to showing our troops that we are thinking of them and look forward to their quick and safe return home. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING JACKIE WILLIAMS' SERVICE TO OUR DEPLOYED TROOPS -- (House of Representatives - December 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today in celebration of Wake Forest University's national soccer championship win this past weekend. On December 16, the Wake Forest Demon Deacons men's soccer team defeated Ohio State 2-1 in the NCAA's College Cup championship game. 
   The Deacons scored both of their goals in the second half to come back from a 0-1 deficit to seal the deal for a 2-1 win before a capacity crowd in Cary, North Carolina. The Deacons had 22 wins this year, and their national championship win is a fitting capstone to a long road to victory for Wake Forest soccer. 
   In the championship game against Ohio State, junior forward Marcus Tracy scored the Deacons' first goal to tie the game with 24 minutes left. It was Tracy's third goal of the College Cup, and helped to earn him the honor of being named the most outstanding offensive player of the College Cup. On the defensive side, goalkeeper Brian Edwards earned the College Cup's outstanding defensive play award. 
   With the game tied 1-1, Zack Schilawski, a sophomore striker, scored the winning goal on a pass from Tracy with 12 minutes on the clock. This goal propelled Wake Forest to a national championship and snapped Ohio State's 15-game unbeaten streak. 
   I salute the fine soccer players and coaches at Wake Forest led by Coach Jay Vidovich for winning the University's first national soccer championship. Their inspiring performance is worthy of the most hearty congratulations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank the gentleman for yielding time to me. 
   I haven't been on the floor to hear much of the debate on this bill, but a couple of things have caught my attention. One is that the chairman said we don't want across-the-board cuts. 
   Well, as I understand, they don't want cuts to individual programs or specific programs either, so I guess that means we don't want cuts, period. I remember hearing the debate on this floor about raising the minimum wage, and that has resonated in my memory in relationship to the debate on not making any cuts for this bill also. 
   There were raving comments made about how people who were living on the minimum wage hadn't received an increase for years and years and years, and yet Members of Congress had received pay raises. 
   Well, it seems to me that if we're concerned about people who are getting minimum wage, we definitely should be concerned about increasing spending for this bill or any other government program, for that matter. We are raising spending by billions of dollars, and where is that money coming from? That money is coming from the very people that were supposed to be helping those people making the minimum wage. 
   In just 6 months, the new Democrat majority has passed or paved the way for $103.4 billion in increased spending. 
   Now, what that means is, again, that we are taking that money away from the American citizens. By doing that, they have raised the national debt limit by $850 billion, which they said they would never do, or $2,812 for every single man, woman and child alive in the United States today, the second largest increase in the national debt in American history, and the largest single tax increase in American history they have passed. 
   So we don't need to be doing this. We need to be helping average working Americans, by letting them keep more of the money. The government doesn't know how to spend your money better than you know how to spend it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HISTORIC MOMENT -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, you know, people often come up and say we are at an historic moment. Every moment is a part of history because at some time what we are doing is going to be recorded but we really are at another defining moment in American history here this week and this weekend. 
   And the American people need to know that House Republicans are fighting for the right values and for what 99 percent of Americans have been telling us for the past week. I am also happy to report that most House Republicans agreed with their constituents even before they began hearing from their constituents, and that's a good thing for the American people to know because that means our resolve is even stronger than it would have been if some of our Members had been of a different mind but changed their mind once they started hearing from their constituents. 
   House Republicans are fighting to ensure that the rescue bill, the economic rescue bill doesn't give a blank check to Wall Street at the expense of taxpayers on Main Street. People have been calling me all day today. I had a call just before I came on the floor asking me are we all right. I am here to reassure the American people that from our side of the aisle we are all right. We are doing fine, and we are standing strong. And I think it is very important that we say that. 
   But I think also we need to say what some of the specific things we are fighting for and we are fighting against. We are fighting to make sure that we don't slide into socialism in this country. And we are fighting against the special interests, the pork barrel and the very groups that helped get us into the situation that we are in now. I want to say that we are working hard to get out of any bill that is presented here that has pork barrel provisions added by the Democrats, that would reward the people who support them and give them all their money. 
   Let me talk about three of those groups. Number one, the trial lawyers. Believe it or not, the Democrats have figured out a way to put into this economic recovery bill a great gift to the trial lawyers, and that is something that is called around here a cram down provision. 
   It would allow people who don't think their mortgage rate is fair to go to a bankruptcy judge and ask that bankruptcy judge to change the conditions of their mortgage. That is an abomination. But what it would do is give a lot of work to trial lawyers. We have said there is a marker here, we will not vote for any economic recovery plan that is going to do that because it would undermine the effectiveness of any economic recovery effort by making it even harder to value these securities. 
   There is another gift in the draft presented by the Democrats to big labor. This gives Washington's powerful big labor bosses a big handout by having them have ``say on pay'' or proxy access provisions that the Democrats have added to this. 
   And then a group that people have asked me about ACORN. There is a big gift in here to that group. It includes a giveaway that would force taxpayers to bankroll a slush fund to a discredited ally of the Democratic Party. ACORN's fraudulent voter registration activities on behalf of Democratic candidates are well known. 
   This bill that the Democrats have presented would return any profits made in the long term from the economic rescue package partly back to ACORN. In fact, the first part of it would go to ACORN for their often-illegal help in helping Democrats get elected. 
   I have, Mr. Speaker, a long list of their most recent scandals and unlawful activities. Seven ACORN workers  were charged with committing the biggest voter registration fraud in Washington State history. That was from the Seattle Times. 
   Another article from the Wall Street Journal, ``Late last year, a handful of ACORN canvassers in Washington State admitted that they had falsified voter registrations by illegally filling out hundreds of forms with names such as Dennis Hastert, Leon Spinks and Fruito Boy Crispila.'' 
   I don't have time in the short time I have available to read all of these excerpts from articles, but I would like to put them all in the Record. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want the American people to know, Republicans are fighting for you.  
   ``ACORN is a long-time advocacy group with whom Obama was once associated. Recently, though, ACORN workers in two states have pleaded guilty to election fraud, an unlikely recipient of federal largess.'' Fox News Report, 9/26/08. 
   ``Seven ACORN workers were charged with `committing the biggest voter-registration fraud in [Washington] state history.' '' The Seattle Times, 7/26/07. 
   ACORN workers submitted ``just over 1,800 new voter registration forms, but there was a problem. The names were made up--all but six of the 1,800 submissions were fakes... The ACORN workers told state investigators that they went to the Seattle public library, sat at a table and filled out the voter registration forms. They made up names, addresses, and Social Security numbers and in some cases plucked names from the phone book. One worker said it was a lot of hard work making up all those names and another said he would sit at home, smoke marijuana and fill out the forms.'' Fox News Channel, 5/02/08. 
   ``Late last year, a handful of ACORN canvassers in Washington state admitted that they had falsified voter registrations by illegally filling out hundreds of forms with names such as Dennis Hastert, Leon Spinks and Fruito Boy Crispila.'' Wall Street Journal, 7/31/08. 
   ``Eight workers for a get-out-the-vote effort in St. Louis city and county have pleaded guilty to federal election fraud for submitting false registration cards for the 2006 election, authorities said today. The workers were employed by the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN), gathering voter registrations.'' Associated Press, 4/02/08. 
   ``Acorn has had a number of missteps. This month its founder, Wade Rathke, resigned after news emerged that his brother Dale had embezzled nearly $1 million from Acorn and affiliated groups eight years ago--information the group kept from law-enforcement authorities and most members. Dale Rathke left the organization only last month.'' Wall Street Journal, 7/31/08. 
   So how exactly will ACORN be rewarded if the Democrats get their way? Very simple: behind closed doors, ACORN-friendly language was slipped into the Democratic economic rescue proposal by Senate Banking Committee Chairman Chris Dodd (D-CT) and House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank (D-MA). Take a look: 
   Transfer of a percentage of profits. 
   1. Deposits. Not less than 20 percent of any profit realized on the sale of each troubled asset purchased under this Act shall be deposited as provided in paragraph (2). 
   2. Use of deposits. Of the amount referred to in paragraph (1) 
   1. 65 percent shall be deposited into the Housing Trust Fund established under section 1338 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Regulatory Reform Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4568); and 
   2. 35 percent shall be deposited into the Capital Magnet Fund established under section 1339 of that Act (12 U.S.C. 4569). 
   Remainder deposited in the Treasury. All amounts remaining after payments under paragraph (1) shall be paid into the General Fund of the Treasury for reduction of the public debt. 
   What does this mean? The Wall Street Journal breaks it down in an editorial published today: 
   ``What we have here essentially are a pair of government slush funds created in July as part of the Economic Recovery Act that pump tax dollars into the coffers of low-income housing advocacy groups, such as Acorn.'' 
   ``Acorn, one of America's most militant left-wing `community activist groups,' is spending $16 million this year to register Democrats to vote in November. In the past several years, Acorn's voter registration programs have come under investigation in Ohio, Colorado, Michigan, Missouri and Washington, while several of their employees have been convicted of voter fraud...'' 
   That's right. Rather than returning any profits made in the long-term from the economic rescue package, Democrats want to first reward their radical allies at ACORN for their help--often illegal help--in getting Democrats elected to office. Families, seniors, small businesses, and all American taxpayers deserve better than what Democratic leaders are attempting to jam down their throats. 
   The rescue package should not become a ``Christmas tree'' for the Democratic Majority's far-left wing political agenda that seeks to shower taxpayer dollars upon groups like ACORN. On behalf of beleaguered taxpayers across the nation, House Republicans will continue to fight to remove the ACORN payback and any other Democratic poison-pills from the economic rescue package. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CURRENT FINANCIAL SITUATION OF THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to thank Mr. Garrett, my colleague from New Jersey, and say that I am happy to come and join him and my other colleagues in this. I wish I were as eloquent as they have been tonight, because they have certainly described the situation we face in very, very eloquent terms. 
   I would put it in some very plain terms, I believe. We can act in haste and repent at leisure. That is something I think the American people understand as well as they have understood the wonderful things said here. 
   We have been told again that we must act immediately or, as Speaker Pelosi has said, we are being unpatriotic. I don't believe that. I think we are being patriotic by taking our time and holding the Speaker to the promises she made in 2006: All bills would go through regular order, go through committee, come to the floor, be allowed to be amended. It would be the most bipartisan Congress ever in the history of the Congress. We have not seen that, and the taxpayers of this country deserve that. 
   I want to say also again, this is not a failure of our markets. It is a failure of our government, as has been said over and over and over again. 
   As Congresswoman Bachmann has said, we have many options, contrary to what Secretary Paulson has said when he presented this to us. And to reiterate what Congressman McCotter from Michigan said, it is important that the American people know the Democrats are in charge of this Congress. They have 231 votes. It takes only 218 to pass a bill. If they want to pass a bill, they can pass any bill they want to. They have done it this whole 20 months without our help. They don't need bipartisan support for this.     
   I would like to speak about an article from the Wall Street journal entitled ``A Mortgage Fable.'' 
   I am not going to read this article tonight, but I do want to point out some things again, some which my colleagues have already pointed out, but just to hit some high spots. It talks about the problems, the people and the agencies that have created the problems that we are facing. 
   I will quote here, ``But Washington is as deeply implicated in this meltdown as anyone on Wall Street or at Countrywide Financial. Going back decades, but especially in the past 15 or so years, our politicians have promoted housing and easy credit with a variety of subsidies and policies that helped to create and feed the mania. Let us take the role of political cause and financial effect.'' 
   Again, I am going to hit the high spots here. ``The Federal Reserve. The original sin of this crisis was easy money. 
   ``Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Created by government, and able to borrow at rates lower than fully private corporations because of the implied backing from taxpayers, these firms turbocharged the credit mania. They channeled far more liquidity in the market than would have been the case otherwise.'' 
   Fannie and Freddie's patrons on Capitol Hill didn't care about the risks inherent in their combined trillion dollar plus mortgage portfolios, so long as they help meet political goals on housing, even after taxpayers have had to pick up a bailout tab that may grow as large as $200 billion, House Financial Services Chairman BARNEY FRANK still won't back a reduction in their mortgage portfolios. 
   ``A credit-rating oligopoly. Thanks to Federal and State regulation, a small handful of credit rating agencies pass judgment on the risk for all debt securities in our markets. Many of these judgments turned out to be wrong, and this goes to the root of the credit crisis: Assets officially deemed rock solid by the Government's favored risk experts have lately been recognized as nothing of the kind.'' 
   ``Banking regulators. In the Beltway fable, bank supervision all but vanished in recent years. But the great irony is that the banks that made some of the worst mortgage investments are the most highly regulated.'' 
   ``Meanwhile, the least regulated firms--hedge funds and private equity--have had the fewest problems, or have folded up their mistakes with the least amount of trauma. All of this reaffirms the historical truth that regulators almost always discover financial excesses only after the fact.'' 
   ``The Community reinvestment Act. This 1977 law makes banks to make loans to poor borrowers who often cannot repay them. Banks that failed to make enough of these loans were often held hostage by activists when they next sought some regulatory approval.'' 
   ``Our point here isn't to absolve Wall Street or to pretend there weren't private excesses. But the investment mistakes would surely have been less extreme, and ultimately their damage containable, if not for the political support and subsidy for mortgage credit.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (BARRING ACCESS OF LONG-HAUL MEXICAN TRUCKS -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank my colleague from Tennessee for yielding. 
   I agree that this is a problematic program, and I agree also with my colleague from Florida, Congresswoman Ginny Brown-Waite, that what I am hearing at home is from truckers in my district, as well as average citizens, who are complaining about the high price of gasoline. And of course the truckers are complaining about the high price of diesel. And they want to know why is this Congress not doing something about the high price of gasoline. 
   As we have said often on this floor, Republicans are ready to vote on an all-of-the-above strategy to bring down the price of gasoline. And we know Americans are going to be facing very high prices for fuel oil pretty soon. So we want to do something about the high price of gasoline by bringing up the American Energy Act and having an up-or-down vote on what to do about bringing down the price of gasoline by providing more supply. 
   As I have said many times on this floor, the Republicans are pro-American energy. We want to see more American energy supplied to the American consumers. We want more oil, we want alternatives, but we can't get energy independent without drilling for more oil and having a segue into the alternatives. We believe that Democrats are anti-American energy, and anti-American energy is going to keep the price of gasoline very high. It's also going to make the price of fuel oil this winter very high, which is going to hurt all of our citizens. 
   So we want to help our truckers, we want to help our seniors, we want to help other agencies who are struggling with this as well as our average citizens. Bring down the price of gasoline and bring down the price of fuel oil by bringing the American Energy Act for a vote and allow us to have an up-or-down vote. Do we drill in ANWR? Do we drill in the Outer Continental Shelf? Or do we allow the Democrats to continue to play games with this Congress? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HOUSE RESERVISTS PAY ADJUSTMENT ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, Congressman Ehlers. I just want to add my comments to the ones that you've made. 
   I think that while I'm very much in support of this bill and we want to do whatever we can to help our employees bridge the gap between their military pay and the pay that they would receive here, I think one of the best things we can do for all the citizens of this country is to bring down the high price of gasoline, and that would serve everybody very well. 
   We can do that. We know we can do that. All we have to do is announce that we are going to expand the supply of American-made energy, and we will immediately bring down the price. That will help all of our citizens, which is what every Member of this Congress should be doing. 
   We will get to the alternatives. We can be completely energy independent in this country, but we can't do it overnight. In order to get to energy independence with alternatives, which Republicans support, we must supply more gas and oil in the short term, and I support those efforts. 
   I ask the Speaker, again, to bring forth the American Energy Act so that we can have an up-or-down vote on it and let the American people know are you a pro-American energy person or an anti-American energy person. That's the issue that we're facing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (AMERICAN ENERGY ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to thank my colleague from Ohio who has been leading this Special Order tonight for giving me this opportunity. I hope to have a chart tomorrow that is going to show this better, but I am going to describe very briefly something that I think we need to be talking about. 
   I am encouraged by the Speaker saying that we are going to have a vote on an energy plan. I am concerned that it is not going to be the vote on the American Energy Act. We need a straight up or down vote I think on increasing American-made energy. 
   I have said over and over again on the floor, I am pro-American made energy and I think that is what we need to be doing. I was very proud to be here during August when the seats were filled with citizens who were here visiting. There was no mike, there was no C-SPAN, there were no lights on, but we had a great time talking to the American people and I think it showed our Republic at work. People took action, contacted their Members and said we need to do something about it. 
   But recently we have heard about how the unemployment rate has gone up, and our colleague from Texas, Judge Carter, talked about jobs going overseas. I think we also have seen that as the gas prices have gone up, we have also seen unemployment go up. Again, while I don't have a chart, I am going to make do with the chart that I have here. 
   When the Democrats took over in 2007, we had an unemployment rate of 4.5 percent, one of the lowest in the history of this county. We had 54 straight months of job increases. What happened? By 11-07, the unemployment rate had gone up, which was about right here, as gas prices started going up. When gas prices got to here, the unemployment rate had gone up to 5 percent. Gas prices in May were up to $3.84 and the unemployment rate went above 5 percent. The unemployment rate is now at 6 percent, and that is where gas prices went, there. 
   I agree with Judge Carter. We need to look at why jobs are going overseas, and in large part it is because of the gas prices. The American people simply don't understand why the Democrats are so anti-American energy. If we will drill in ANWR, if we will drill off the coast, we can bring down the price of gasoline in this country. We can bring down the price of home heating oil, which is going to be hurting everybody in this country in the very next few days, because it is hurting them. 
   I yield back to my colleague who began this so he can close the evening. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PROVIDING HOUSE EMPLOYEES WITH OPTION OF RECEIVING ELECTRONIC PAY STUBS -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I would like to thank Chairman Brady, Ranking Member Ehlers for bringing this bill to the floor and for their kind comments. What they have said is what we are attempting to do, which is to bring an important innovative and needed resolution to the House for consideration. I would also like to thank Alec Hoppes of the Committee on House Administration for working with my staff to bring this bill forward. A separate thank you to Mr. Ehlers for offering his amendment which makes the bill an even better bill by including additional services to be made available to House employees. 
   While many private companies, corporations, and State governments like Florida, Idaho, Kentucky, South Dakota, and Nebraska give the option of accessing employee pay stubs electronically, e-stubs, the U.S. House of Representatives does not. Safer than receiving pay stubs by snail mail, electronically accessing pay stubs saves money and an immeasurable amount of paper. 
   H. Res. 1207 would simply direct the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives to take the steps necessary to provide House Members, their staff, committee staff, legislative counsel, Sergeant at Arms employees, and all other employees whose pay is disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House the option of accessing their pay stub electronically. 
   Moving forward with technological advances means going paperless with pay stubs as so many employers have already done. I urge my colleagues in  supporting this nonpartisan sensible resolution and join with me in choosing to access our pay stubs electronically, and I ask my colleagues to vote for the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE DRILL-NOTHING CONGRESS -- (House of Representatives - June 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today to speak about the drill-nothing Congress. I wish I had thought of that phrase, but it's the headline in Investor's Business Daily, Monday, June 9. 
   The average price for regular gas at $4 a gallon over the weekend. Gas prices have risen 75 percent since Nancy Pelosi took over. Where is the energy independence Democrats promised 2 years ago? That's the subheadline. 
   Now I am going to quote from the article. In November, 2006, House Speaker-Elect Nancy Pelosi issued a press release touting the Democrats ``common-sense plan to help bring down skyrocketing gas prices.'' She accused the oil companies of price gouging. The price of gasoline, when the Democrats took control of Congress, was around $2.25 per gallon. The average price of regular gas crept over the $4 per gallon barrier over the weekend, as measured by AAA and the Oil Price Information Service. 
   This represents a more than 75 percent increase in the retail price of a gallon of gasoline on Pelosi's watch. Call it the Pelosi premium we are all now paying. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PROTECT AMERICA ACT MUST BE MADE PERMANENT -- (House of Representatives - February 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, it has been more than a week since the House left town without voting on critical intelligence legislation. This bipartisan legislation would have permanently fixed the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, FISA, and enabled our intelligence community to monitor effectively foreign terrorists in electronic communications. 
   A 6-month fix to FISA, the Protect America Act, expired on February 17. It had allowed our intelligence agencies to monitor foreign terrorists' electronic communications on foreign soil without time-consuming court orders. But the House refused to take up the bill that passed the Senate with broad bipartisan support by a vote of 68-29. More than 20 Democrats voted in favor of this legislation to make the Protect America Act permanent. By refusing to consider this legislation, the House is embarking on an act of reckless irresponsibility. 
   America cannot afford to hit pause on our surveillance of foreign terrorists. Now that the Protect America Act has expired, our intelligence community faces cumbersome bureaucratic hurdles to monitoring the communication of suspected foreign terrorists. This paper-pushing approach takes precious time, which could mean the difference in thwarting the terrorists' plans or even protecting the lives of our troops. 
   We must pass this bill now. The votes are there. Not acting endangers our Nation's security and puts barriers in the way of fighting radical terrorists. This bill has broad bipartisan support, and refusing to allow it to come up for a vote amounts to putting the so-called civil liberties of terrorists before the safety of all Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PORK-BARREL SPENDING -- (House of Representatives - May 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, Congressman Hensarling. I appreciate very much the leadership that you have provided to do this special order tonight. 
   As you've said, the system is broken. The earmark and pork barrel system is broken. And we have to do something about it. 
   I will have to confess that in my first 2 years in Congress, I did ask for earmarks. And my earmarks were very transparent. I felt that every project I asked for was very valid and very worthy. They were all designed to help with economic development in my district. The requests came from county commissioners, airport commissions and economic development groups. They all came very legitimately and very openly from the people in the counties that I represented in the Fifth District of North Carolina. And I have no problem at all defending those. 
   However, what I learned in the process is that this earmark system is badly broken. Not everybody who was requesting special funding was being as transparent as I was being. And I have come to the conclusion that we must have a moratorium on earmarks until we can fix the system. 
   I believe the American people have become very, very cynical about the Congress and about Washington in general. And I didn't come here to feed that cynicism. I came to Washington because I believe that I have a limited amount of talents that I can use on behalf of the people of my district and on behalf of the people of the United States of America. 
   And I want to do that. I am very much in love with this country and with what we stand for. And I want to make sure that I have done everything that I can to help this country succeed. It is the greatest country in the world. I have no doubt about that. And we have done enormously good things in the little over 200 years that this country has been formed. 
   And it is my goal to keep us as a beacon of hope for the world, to keep us as the beacon of freedom for the world, and to do everything that we can to keep the government going in a positive way. 
   But as I said, we have made mistakes. Democrats and Republicans have made mistakes. But I will have to say that Republicans never promised to make the kinds of reforms that the Democrats promised to make. The Democrats said in 2006 a lot of things to get elected and to take over the majority. 
   We have all kinds of charts to show they made many, many promises which they have not kept. But I think this one, this promise about earmarks and pork barrel spending, and they are broken promises related to that, has made the American people even more cynical about Washington and about elected officials than they were before. And I frankly don't want to be a part of that. 
   If we are going to maintain our freedom, if we are going to maintain the type of country that we want, we have to get people engaged in our political process. We have to have people who want to run for office, who want to get out and vote and who want to make sure that we can continue this republic in all the positive ways that it has existed. And frankly, we can't do that as long as we allow people to use the money paid into the Treasury by hardworking Americans for projects that they deem are important. 
   I don't believe that any Member of Congress should ever be able to appropriate money to have any kind of facility, road or anything named for him or her. That, to me, is one of the worst things that can be done, because it is not our money. It is the money of the hardworking taxpayers. And we have no right to take that money and use it, particularly, again, in these very, very difficult times, as my colleague from Texas said, when gas prices are going up, grocery prices are going up, and the hardworking American families are really struggling to make ends meet. 
   We came up with a phrase for what the Democrats have done since they got elected in 2006: The House of Hypocrisy. Some of my colleagues are uncomfortable with that because it is a blotch on the House of Representatives which most of us love dearly. But they have turned it into the House of Hypocrisy because they have not kept the promises that they made. 
   They made lots of promises. And again, I am going to quote some of them because I think we need to do that over and over and over again. 
   Speaker Pelosi, then Minority Leader Pelosi: ``We pledge to make this the most honest, ethical and open Congress in history,'' Christian Science Monitor, 11/14/2006. 
   ``We will bring transparency and openness to the budget process and to the use of earmarks, and we will give the American people the leadership they deserve.'' This was in a press release issued by Speaker Pelosi 12/11/2006. 
   Minority Whip Steny Hoyer said, ``We are going to adopt rules that make the system of legislation transparent so that we don't legislate in the dark of night, and the public and other Members can see what is being done,'' the Washington Times, 11/25/2006. 
   Mr. Hoyer, again, ``Words will not do it. I have a good relationship with Representative Roy Blunt. I have a good relationship with Representative John Boehner. We'll work together. We'll include them in the decision making.'' ``To the extent we create an atmosphere of mutual respect, the American public will feel more comfortable with Congress,'' Hoyer website, 12/10/2006. 
   That is what the American people expected from the Democrats when they gave them the majority in 2006. And frankly, many of us were happy to hear the kinds of pledges that they made. And we thought, great, they have been out of power for 12 years. They have learned some things, and things will be better. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (AMERICAN RELIGIOUS HERITAGE -- (House of Representatives - May 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the long American legacy of religious freedom and religious expression that we have inherited as a result of the wise foresight of our Nation's founders. 
   Throughout our history, we've been a Nation eager to rally to the cry of the motto, ``In God We Trust,'' in times of peace and prosperity or in war and upheaval. This phrase, etched not only on our coins and here in this Chamber but also on our hearts, has captured a truly American sentiment that our great historic experiment in democracy was founded on, and today, thrives in a robust sense of religious freedom. 
   Religious freedoms were specifically included in our Constitution as a reflection of the colonial experience of religious tolerance and free expression. Yet as religions' detractors would have it, the Constitution's enumeration of American religious freedoms is a paltry clause intended to merely protect us from the forced religion of a repressed central government. 
   This is a far cry from our Founders' full intentions. America's Founders were indeed careful to ensure that the government did not establish an official religion, but while they were at it, they crafted protection that would ensure our natural religious life would not falter under the machinations of those who would infringe on citizens' religious expression. 
   The first amendment is clear: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. This amendment does not establish the freedom from religion. Rather, it grants every American freedom of religion.     
   It is upon this freedom that our land was founded, and it is this freedom that undergirds our strength and national character today. 
   As founding father John Adams wrote in 1776 on the eve of our independence, ``Statesmen ..... may plan and speculate for Liberty, but it is Religion and Morality alone, which can establish the Principles, upon which Freedom can securely stand end.'' 
   By allowing for and encouraging the free exercise of religion, the Constitution set the stage for a vigorous national religious life. Most Americans are nothing if not a people of religion, committed to lives of quiet reverence to God, the practice of prayer and the exercise of their religion. 
   Our culture of religious life informs the way we raise families, conduct business and serve our neighbors. Throughout the centuries this culture also illuminated those who governed and served to temper our laws and governmental practices with the timely wisdom of Judeo-Christian ethics. 
   George Washington recognized that America would succeed if she adhered to the long legacy of religious values informing our public life and policy. In his first inaugural address, he said that ``the foundation of our national policy will be laid in the pure and immutable principles of private morality, and the preeminence of free government be exemplified by all the attributes which can win the affections of its citizens, and command the respect of the world.'' 
   George Washington knew what we know today. A healthy culture of free religious expression keeps our Nation on the right track and our government's policies rooted in the values  that we hold dear: life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. My continual prayer for America is that we never forsake the Judeo-Christian values that ensure these freedoms remain a centerpiece of our great Nation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5715, ENSURING CONTINUED ACCESS TO STUDENT LOANS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, on rollcall No. 195, on agreeing to the resolution, H. Res. 1107, a resolution providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5715) to ensure continued availability of access to the Federal student loan program for students and families, had I been present, I would have voted ``nay.''  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PRAISING THE ASU MOUNTAINEERS' WIN OVER MICHIGAN -- (House of Representatives - September 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise to salute the Appalachian State University Mountaineer football team on their upset of fifth-ranked Michigan this weekend in their season opener. This win was one of the greatest upsets in college football history. Before last Saturday's win, no Division I-AA team had beaten a team ranked in the AP poll from 1989 to 2006. 
   The Mountaineers' win was no ordinary upset. It was a down-to-the-wire game for the history books. The game hinged on the heroic field goal blocked by Corey Lynch with 6 seconds left that secured ASU's 34-32 victory over one of the most storied college football programs in America. 
   With this upset, it looks like Coach Jerry Moore is poised to lead the Mountaineers to their third straight national championship. 
   By beating Michigan, ASU extends their winning streak to 15 games, the longest among Division I teams. But this victory is about more than winning streaks or statistics. This is about the achievements of a hardworking championship team from a small town in rural North Carolina proving that tenacity counts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING DEL REEVES -- (House of Representatives - February 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize and pay tribute to a proud son of Sparta, North Carolina, country singer and Grand Ole Opry legend, Del Reeves. Del Reeves passed away after a long and painful battle with emphysema on New Year's Day 2007. 
   Del Reeves was born in 1933 and was named Franklin Delano Reeves after Franklin Delano Roosevelt who was nominated to be the Democratic Presidential candidate just a few days before his birth. Del was a driven individual who knew at a very young age that he wanted to be a performer. 
   As a young child, Del spoke of music on the radio and said, ``I listened on the radio on Saturday nights and it was the ultimate,'' referring to the Grand Ole Opry. ``As a child, I told my daddy I was going to sing on the Opry one day. He said, `Yeah, sure you are.' I kept my goal in mind and in '66 we achieved it.'' He was one of the select members of the Grand Ole Opry for 40 years. 
   Del achieved that goal and many others. From a very young age, Del would borrow his brothers' instruments, and by the time Del had turned 12 years old, he had become a local radio star on WPAQ in Mount Airy on the ``Merry Go Round Show,'' a program which is still aired today.     
   But this was just a start for Del Reeves. He went on for years performing and recording numerous hits, including 55 charted hits, two of them in the top 10. 
   Del was just more than a performer. He attended what is now Appalachian State University and served in the Air Force at Travis Air Force Base, where he wrote a number of his songs. 
   Del was very dedicated to his hometown and the advancement of others. He started the Del Reeves Scholarship Fund, and for 10 years came back to Alleghany for the ``Del Reeves Homecoming,'' where he held concerts to benefit the scholarship fund he set up. 
   I am so proud that Del, a Sparta native, was successful in his performing career, yet never lost touch with his roots and never let go of his dedication to helping others. Del had a wonderful career that spanned over 40 years. Beyond being a member of the elite group of the Grand Ole Opry, Del also wrote and performed a number of hit songs and appeared in eight movies, including ``Sam Whiskey,'' starring Bert Reynolds and Clint Walker. Del also worked in television, hosting a TV program called the ``Del Reeves' Country Carnival.'' 
   Some of Del's greatest hits were ``The Belles of the Southern Belle,'' his first hit in 1963; ``The Girl on the Billboard,'' his number one billboard hit; ``Sing a Little Song of Heartache,'' which he wrote with his wife; and ``Looking Through the Windshield,'' his trucker anthem released in 1965. 
   Other notable hits that charmed and thrilled country music fans were hits such as ``Women Do Funny Things to Me,'' ``Good Time Charlie's,'' ``Be Glad'' and the ``Philadelphia Fillies.'' In addition, Del wrote many songs for country legends such as Carl Smith, Roy Drusky, Rose Maddox and Sheb Wooly. Del enjoyed performing lighter material as well as singing ballads, and he reflected on that saying, ``Under this clown's face, there's a serious guy ..... I've been clowning as long as I can  remember.'' That is what made Del Reeves unique, he was such a multifaceted and talented person. 
   When asked how he would like to be remembered, he said, ``I want to be remembered as a great showman and a nice guy ..... that's all I could hope for.'' That is exactly what Del got, as he certainly is remembered as a nice guy and a great showman. 
   One of his closest friends, J.D. Higgins, appropriately commented that on New Year's Day country music lost a tremendous entertainer, and I will miss him greatly. He will be missed by country music fans all over the world. I know he will be missed by family, friends and his numerous admirers. Del was a true inspiration who made his hometown friends and North Carolina proud. 
   Del Reeves showed his large heart and love for his hometown community by creating a scholarship fund and always coming home to perform in Alleghany. Del's contributions will serve as a lasting testimony of his tremendous talent, kindness, motivation and delightful personality. We will all miss Del Reeves but know that his timeless music will never be forgotten. He leaves quite a legacy for fans and future generations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ESCALATING GAS PRICES -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to add my voice to those urging change in the face of escalating gas prices. With the start of the summer season, the far-reaching effects of ever increasing gas prices is becoming more and more apparent. 
   It will result in a decrease in income for those in the travel industry, and that will lead to an increase in prices for dependent goods. As a result, the national economy will experience lower spending and higher prices. We are not now in a terrible economic situation, as some of our colleagues have said, but the high gas prices can lead to that. 
   Yet in the face of this self-perpetuating cycle, Democrats are not fighting for change here. We need to move our energy production technologies into the 21st century and build more coal, hydroelectric, and nuclear plants. We have ways to increase our domestic oil and gas production, as well as renewable and domestically available energy sources. At the same time, we must support the commercialization of our shale oil resources which hold enough oil to meet America's needs for more than two centuries. 
   Congress cannot afford to stand as an idle spectator as gas prices continue to erode the foundation of our economy. I urge Members to support Republican efforts to actively seek solutions to our current situation. American families deserve results and it is our responsibility to see that they get them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.  
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation will make a number of changes to the Federal Advisory Committee Act, legislation enacted in 1972 to govern the operations, expenditures, and report requirements of advisory committees established to help Federal agencies on policy and other issues. 
   Specifically, this legislation would further increase the disclosure requirements for advisory committees and minimize the use of political affiliations in making appointments to advisory committees. 
   Today over 1,000 Federal advisory committees are involved in making key decisions that affect everyone's life on vital issues such as health care, civil rights, and national security. Increasing transparency and public involvement are essential to having a free and open process. 
   In strengthening the disclosure and transparency requirements of Federal advisory committees, however, we must be careful not to hinder the process by which the President and other executive branch agencies receive expert advice from these committees. 
   I am cautiously optimistic this legislation strikes a balance between these two priorities, but I trust the majority will continue to work with us as H.R. 5687 moves forward to make sure we do not impose any unnecessary burden upon advisory committees or their members. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING A NATIONAL DYSPHAGIA AWARENESS MONTH -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I commend my colleague from Missouri for his excellent presentation on this resolution. I also  commend my colleague, Mr. Wamp from Tennessee, for introducing the resolution and am sorry that a scheduling conflict has prevented his being here to speak. 
   I urge my colleagues to support H. Con. Res. 195.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (USE IT OR LOSE IT HOAX -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I am here on the floor tonight to set the record straight about false claims that Democrats are peddling as a ``use it or lose it'' hoax. With American families and small businesses continuing to feel the pain at the pump, House Democrats have begun offering a series of hollow bills that will do nothing to reduce gas prices. 
   Today's bill, purportedly meant to address price gouging, serves no purpose other than to provide political cover to Democrats who continue to divide the will of the American people who are calling on Congress to increase the supply of American energy. In fact, today's bill is a rehashed version of a similar price gouging bill passed by the House last year. 
   Still to come in this week's series of no energy bills, the Democrats' ``use it or lose it'' hoax, with no facts to back up their desperate rhetoric, Democratic leaders continue to make misleading and inaccurate claims with the hope of confusing the American people. 
   Following are some of the most prevalent examples. Myth. If the American people want increased production of American energy, Congress must force energy companies to use their leased Federal lands to produce oil or lose those leases. 
   Here's the fact. Use it or lose it is already the law of the land. As a matter of fact, in a bipartisan vote, Speaker Pelosi, Majority Leader Hoyer, and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rahall each voted for it in 1992. Under the law, Federal energy leaseholders already must produce oil or natural gas within 5 to 10 years after drilling on the land begins, and the Secretary of the Interior has the power to cancel the lease if the energy company fails to comply. 
   If Representatives Pelosi, Hoyer, and Rahall all had voted for ``use it or lose it'' 16 years ago, then why are they so insistent on forcing another vote on the exact same concept this year? Could it be because they have no meaningful plan of their own to bring down gas prices? 
   Another myth. Oil companies are sitting on 68 million acres of Federal lands without drilling for oil or gas on any of it. This is another false claim, which has become one of the Democrats' top talking points, but they can't back it up with any facts. 
   Energy companies already are actively exploring their currently leased lands to find oil or gas. Once they determine that oil or gas is present, only then can they actually begin drilling. The entire process can take years. 
   As the Independent American Association of Petroleum Geologists noted in a letter to House leaders yesterday, oil and natural gas exploration is not simple and it is not easy. It requires geological ingenuity, advanced technologies, and the time to do the job right.     
   It also requires access to areas where exploration ideas can be tested. The  greater the number of areas available for exploration, the higher the chance of finding oil and natural gas traps. In other words, energy companies cannot be expected to drill on every acre of land every single day, and the Democrats know it. 
   Another myth: 4.8 million barrels of oil per day and 44.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day may be ``extrapolated'' from the oil companies' unused federally-leased lands. In fact, no Democrat, not Speaker Pelosi, Majority Leader Hoyer, Democratic Caucus Chairman Rahm Emanuel, and not Natural Resources Committee Chairman Nick Rahall can explain where they got those figures. In fact, Democrats have refused to respond to a written request from Natural Resources Committee Republicans for this information. Did they just make it up? 
   Mr. Speaker, we know that what will help this problem and our country, the ``Pelosi premium,'' which has driven up gas prices to over $4 a gallon, is to increase the supply. We must increase the supply in order to meet the demand. The Democrats act as though they have repealed the law of supply and demand, the most basic law of economics. They can do a lot of things, Mr. Speaker, but they can't repeal the law of supply and demand. What they have to face up to is the fact that we need additional supply. 
   Republicans have offered commonsense solutions to this issue. We have many plans and many bills out there that would increase the supply and relieve the burden on working Americans. Democrats need to understand that. They need to stop trying to fool the American people with their hoaxes on use-it-or-lose-it, and help us put together a plan to bring greater supply to the American people and give them some relief. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING THE LIFE OF ROBERT MONDAVI -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, as the proud granddaughter of Italian immigrants, I am always proud to recognize the achievements of Italian Americans. 
   I also want to say how grateful North Carolina is for the work that was done by Mr. Mondavi and others in creating an appetite for fine wine in this country. 
   The Fifth District of North Carolina, the district that I represent, has, in the last couple of years, been granted two appellations, the Yadkin Valley and Swan Creek appellations, and we hope some day that those appellations will be spoken of in the same way that the Napa Valley and other appellations are spoken of currently in our country and around the world. 
   I commend the resolution to my colleagues and urge its approval. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (EXPRESSING HEARTFELT SYMPATHY FOR THE VICTIMS AND THEIR FAMILIES OF THE RECENT IOWA TORNADO -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, on Wednesday, June 12, a vicious cluster of tornadoes ripped through the Midwest ending lives and destroying homes in Minnesota, Nebraska, Kansas, and Iowa. Though the storms devastated families everywhere they touched down, one storm in particular that touched down at the Little Sioux Scout Ranch in Loess Hills, Iowa, wounded the heart of our Nation a little more. And in a moment, I will recognize some of our colleagues who were directly involved and are here to share their thoughts on this tragedy. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of our time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (EXPRESSING HEARTFELT SYMPATHY FOR THE VICTIMS AND THEIR FAMILIES OF THE RECENT IOWA TORNADO -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, from our darkest trials, Americans consistently display their true heroism. The horrible events on the night of June 11 were no different. No one is surprised to learn that the Scouts themselves displayed leadership skills and composure in the face of danger above and beyond their years. Had these courageous young men not lived up to their motto, ``Always Be Prepared,'' it is likely that this tragedy would have been magnified. 
   I pray that all involved with Scouting will be inspired by the examples of the Scouting community shown through this tragedy, and that our benevolent God grant a sense of peace to all those affected by the tragedy. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to support the passage of H. Res. 1263. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (NATIONAL CORVETTE DAY -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution designating June 30 as National Corvette Day. 
   In the early 1950s, General Motors' chief designer, Harley J. Earl, began ruminating about a sports car that would cost about the same as an American sedan, the ``poor man's supercar.'' 
   With GIs returning from service during World War II sporting stylish European sports cars, GM wanted to develop an American competitor. At the 1953 Motorama, GM debuted their new supercar, the Corvette. Less refined than European counterparts, but nevertheless a visible portrayal of the American psyche, the Corvette captured American hearts, and the first one rolled off the line in Flint, Michigan on June 30, 1953. 
   As we honor the 100th anniversary of General Motors, it is only fitting that we honor one of their most successful creations. Over the years, the Corvette has become an American icon and source of national pride. Never straying from its roots, the Vette has a long history of melding exceptional handling and brutal amounts of engine power into an affordable package. Driven by celebrities, national heroes, superheroes, and average citizens, including many in the Fifth District of North Carolina, the Corvette is America. Built in our heartland at the Bowling Green, Kentucky plant for the heart of our country, we rise today to honor this legendary icon of the highways. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank my colleague from Texas for giving me this time. 
   Even in western North Carolina we have figured out that this is a technology that needs to be done, turning coal into liquid fuel. Bixby Energy, which is located in North Wilkesboro, North Carolina, has found a way to heat coal and turn it into natural gas, and there is no pollution and no detriment to the environment. 
   We all know how the price of airline tickets is going up tremendously. I had visits last week from USAir saying they're going to go out of business if we don't do something about the cost of fuel. And the Republicans have brought in many, many ideas about how we can do this. We simply have got to address the issue of the cost of fuel because it is threatening families, it is threatening industries, and it is doing great harm to our economy. 
   So I'm here to support this bill, but also to say that the Democratic majority must pay attention to the issue of fuel and the cost of that fuel. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (WHAT IS CONGRESS DOING TO LOWER GAS PRICES? -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, my constituents, almost every single one, want to know what Congress is doing to lower the gas prices. Here is part of a letter from Matthew, a Boy Scout, from Winston-Salem, North Carolina: The problem I'm talking about how the gas prices are so high. If gas prices keep going up, we won't be able to go on vacation, we won't be able to go to the grocery store, we won't be able to go to church. 
   This is completely unacceptable for my constituents and also unacceptable for the constituents represented by my friends on the other side of the aisle. Unfortunately, it's because of the out-of-touch Democrat leadership that Congress has done nothing to combat record gas prices. Democrats pledged to deliver low gas prices well before they even took control of Congress promising a ``commonsense'' plan to lower gas prices. And here we are with national gas prices at $4 a gallon. 
   While Democrats only offer more of the same--broken promises in tax increases--House Republicans are committed to pursuing solutions that will help alleviate the pain at the pump and grow the American economy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (GOSPEL MUSIC HERITAGE MONTH -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   The legacy of gospel music is an American art form that continues to uplift and comfort people throughout this country and world. Therefore, I ask my colleagues to join me in support of this resolution in recognition of this national treasure.  
   Gospel music is a cultural and international art form that fosters an outpouring of deep spiritual beliefs. It has developed over the years in the United States but its blend of diverse cultures and music styles give us songs that transcend borders and beliefs. 
   It is a fitting tribute to this uniquely American music that September be designated as Gospel Music Heritage Month as it has touched millions of people throughout the world. It has been enjoyed in many different mediums such as books, television and motion pictures which has increased the enjoyment for many in varied cultural venues. 
   The style of gospel music has expanded from its roots to include Urban, Christian Country and Southern Gospel further broadening the appeal of this music to more people. The Gospel Music Channel has played an important role in bringing the diverse types of gospel music to many fans. Some of the music greats such as Aretha Franklin, Whitney Houston, Ray Charles, Buddy Holly, Alan Jackson and even Elvis Presley are among the many recording artists that have their roots in gospel music and have recorded significant gospel music albums. Their ability to bring their personal inspiration from gospel music to their millions of fans with varied musical styles is another tribute to this wonderful music genre. 
   The legacy of gospel music is an American art form that continues to uplift and comfort people throughout this country and world. Therefore, I ask my colleagues to join me in support of this resolution in recognition of this national treasure.  
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (NATIONAL BIBLE WEEK -- (House of Representatives - November 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate a book that has changed the course of history and left its mark on every level of our society. The Bible has been a God-given source of guidance for humanity for thousands of years and was a wellspring of wisdom and truth for the Founders of our Nation. As we approach National Bible Week, which is traditionally celebrated during the week of Thanksgiving, it is important to pause and reflect on how this Good Book has shaped the world, changed countless millions of lives, and brought humankind to a better understanding of our God and of our place in the world. 
   The Bible is a deep repository of fundamental and universal truth that has stood as a guide post for the generations. It teaches us how we ought to relate to our Creator and how to love our fellow human beings. During times of turmoil, confusion and strife, I can think of no more important source of guidance than the wisdom of this unchanging and inspired book. 
   The Bible offers us hope when circumstances are dire. The Bible is a source of strength when our human frailty brings us low, and when we are surrounded by darkness, as the psalmist wrote, the Bible ``is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path.'' In all of its transcendent wisdom, the Bible does not fail to connect to our human condition. It kindles our joy and beckons us to know God regardless of our place in life. 
   Throughout my life, I have drawn on the words of the Bible to lead me and inform my moral compass. The Bible is an unshakeable pillar of truth that provides the surest of moral foundations for society's founded on and reliant on its inspired content. The Bible has nourished a dialogue of our Nation's public square and has bolstered the development of a strong moral identity for hundreds of years. 
   I encourage my fellow Americans to dig deep into the Good Book and discover for themselves what riches God's word has in store for them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank my colleague from California. 
   Mr. Chairman, I have been sitting here listening for a while to the debate on this bill, and I have been struck by several issues that have come up that I think need to be mentioned. Some have been mentioned before, but some new ones. 
   I am often asked by school groups what's the difference between Democrats and Republicans? I say to them  the very quick definition is Democrats think they know how to spend your money better than you know how to spend your money. Republicans think that the less government we have, the better off we are; and the more money you are allowed to keep, the better off this country will be. I think that this debate certainly exemplifies that. 
   I agree with some of my colleagues who said before, the appetite of the Democrats is absolutely insatiable for increased spending. They never met a program they didn't love to spend money for. They would take every dime. They will take every dime, every penny from the American people that they can possibly take and spend it on programs they think are important. 
   They talk about investing government money. The government never invested any money. It spends money. The private sector invests money and gets results. 
   I would challenge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. Show me the results of these spendings that you do, and then maybe you can argue a little bit about an investment. 
   The other thing that I am struck by is how much last year in this same debate that the Democrats said the free-spending President Bush, busting the budget, doing all this spending; and now they are coming here and defend programs that the President zeroed out because they were ineffective, and they want to put the money back in.     
   That is the height of hypocrisy. There is a limited amount of money that Americans have, but the Democrats don't know that. They want to take it all. And it is true that the budget they passed earlier this year contains the largest or second largest tax increase in America, and that to pay for their programs they are going to have to have more tax increase. 
   This amendment would save a small amount of money, $27 million, but it is a step in the right direction. We have got to start reining in spending, and those of us who have come here in the last few years understand that, those Republicans do, and we want to see the Federal Government more responsive to the American taxpayer, less profligate, and more interested in saving our freedom, not in taking it away by taking away our money and reducing our choices. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PAPERWORK ASSISTANCE ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, as we all know, every year the government asks Americans to provide many kinds information. These forms can often be confusing and complicated. It would be better if we could find a way to reduce the total number of information requests the government makes to the public, but failing that, we ought at least to make sure someone is available to answer questions from people who are trying to comply with these requirements. 
   H.R. 6113 amends the Paperwork Reduction Act to require agencies to provide contact information for the agency on information collection. I am happy to support this legislation, and I look forward to the day when we actually cut the number and size of information requests generated by this government. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (PAPERWORK ASSISTANCE ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, this bill is aimed at making the Federal Government more friendly and responsive to citizens who interact with the government. How sad that we are not responding to what Americans are asking for right now and what is most on their mind. And I'm quoting a Fox News/Opinion Dynamics poll released last week revealed that 75 percent of Americans and 66 percent of Democrats support immediate oil and gas exploration here at home. According to a CNN poll, 73 percent of Americans favor more exploration of deep ocean energy resources far off American shores. A Reuters/Zogby poll conducted in June shows that 75 percent of Americans support drilling for oil offshore, and 59 percent support drilling in ANWR. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (REDUCING INFORMATION CONTROL DESIGNATIONS ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, in recent years, we've seen an exponential growth in the number and types of non-classified information control designations. These designations carry little, if any, statutory authority, and no Federal entity is monitoring their use. So there is a need for some legislative control over the creation and use of those vague designations. H.R. 6576 attempts to achieve that goal. 
   This legislation makes it clear Congress intends agencies to limit the use of information control designations, so that government-wide information-sharing is increased and information is more available to the public. 
   One important component to this legislation is it creates a government-wide solution to this problem, as opposed to allowing each agency to create its own rules for how these designations are handled. 
   For too long, Federal departments have insisted on treating information they develop as their information. To protect their information, agencies have imposed a variety of sanctions on employees. The net effect of this hyper-protectiveness has been to create an environment where everyone knew something, but no one knew everything. 
   In May of this year, the President issued a memo establishing new procedures designating the National Archives as responsible for overseeing and managing the implementation of the controlled unclassified information framework. 
   Our intent with this legislation, for the most part, is to codify the processes laid out in that memo so future administrations cannot roll back these modernizing procedures. The proliferation of ``sensitive but unclassified'' and ``for official use only'' designations is clogging the arteries meant to take critical information to Federal, State and local agencies, and the public. 
   This legislation instructs the Archivist to establish regulations regarding the use of information control designations, with an emphasis on minimizing agency use, and establishes a process allowing the public to review these documents at the appropriate time. 
   One section which deviates from the President's plan is a section which would provide an incentive for employees to challenge control designations and be rewarded for succeeding in these challenges. 
   Upon reflection, I'm concerned this creates the wrong incentive. Are we putting employee personal gain at odds with agency security? 
   And, how would this system actually work? Who will make awards decisions? When is such a challenge eligible for an award? I expect we will need to clarify this system before the bill becomes law. 
   On the whole, I am satisfied this legislation will go a long way toward clarifying what types of control designations may be used and when they are not appropriate. 
   Mr. Speaker, as the security needs of our country change, we need to adjust with them. Our future safety depends on moving from a need-to-know culture to a need-to-share culture. 
   This legislation will help us reach that goal, and I urge my colleagues to support it. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (REDUCING INFORMATION CONTROL DESIGNATIONS ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, this is an important bill and it should pass. However, we should be dealing with what is most on the minds of Americans today, the high cost of gasoline brought on since the Democrats gained control of the Congress. 
   Poll after poll underscores the American people's strong support for increased American energy production to help bring down gas prices. And an increasing number of rank-and-file Democrats in Congress are listening to them and calling for a vote on more environmentally safe oil and gas drilling here at home. 
   We know that at least two House Democrats have spoken up about this issue and are asking the Democratic leadership to call for more drilling to help lower gas prices, and I want to quote from two of them. It's in Congressional Quarterly, 7/28/08, by Subcommittee Chairman PETER VISCLOSKY: ``We ought to have a vote in the House of Representatives about it,'' meaning lower gas prices. 
   Representative TIM HOLDEN from Pennsylvania has said: ``Drill everywhere ..... I'm for off-shore (oil) drilling. It needs to be part of a multi-pronged approach.'' This appeared in the Pottsville Republican Herald, 7/28/08. 
   So how does Speaker Pelosi respond to these ever-intensifying calls for more American energy? She calls it a hoax, and I want to quote from a press release from the Leader's office. In an appearance this morning on NBC's Today show, Speaker Pelosi coldly dismissed the views held by a solid majority of the American people, not to mention a bipartisan majority in Congress, saying, ``It's really a hoax. It's really a hoax on the American people.'' 
   This is just the latest illustration of how out of touch the Speaker and her colleagues in the Democratic leadership are with American families and  small businesses who are being pummeled day in and day out by soaring energy prices. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, I support the passage of this bill, but I call on the Speaker and the Democratic leadership to bring for a vote bills, among them the American Energy Act introduced last week by the House Republicans, to explore for more oil and to lower the cost of energy in this country. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF THE APPLE CRUNCH AND THE NATION'S DOMESTIC APPLE INDUSTRY -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this resolution supporting the goals and ideals of the Apple Crunch and the Nation's domestic apple industry. 
   In an era that sees food serving sizes skyrocketing and in an America that is quickly forgetting the meaning of the phrase ``a la carte,'' it is important to continually encourage children to eat healthily. The goal of the Apple Crunch is just that, to promote healthier snacking by America's youth. 
   First established in Pennsylvania, the success of Apple Crunch has spread. Apple Crunch, the pinnacle of the celebration of Apple Month in October, is now in its 2nd year as a national practice, with schools and communities across the country joining in festivities. 
   During the 2006-2007 school year, more than 930 schools and 495,000 citizens in Pennsylvania alone came together to celebrate Apple Crunch. Schools, families, local communities, grocery stores, and the domestic apple industry all join together to encourage adding more fruits and vegetables to our everyday diets. Many schools have gone far past simply featuring apples on the dining menu, integrating apples into classroom lessons and even scheduling field trips to local farmers' markets. 
   The focus on promoting healthy eating in our schools is vital to the health  of our children and society. According to one of the organizers, ``By making fruits and vegetables fun for kids, our message of healthy snacking is going home and influencing the entire family.'' 
   By joining in the Apple Crunch and bringing more attention to the goal of healthier snacking, we can move our country further towards the future of a healthier Nation. 
   I urge my colleagues to join in support of the Apple Crunch and embrace an easy and available step toward healthier living. After all, as true now as ever, ``an apple a day keeps the doctor away.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF THE APPLE CRUNCH AND THE NATION'S DOMESTIC APPLE INDUSTRY -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I need to respond to my colleague from Kansas, who made some comments earlier about working across the aisle to do something about drilling and providing additional supply. 
   It sounded, from her experience of going home this weekend, that the message is getting through to some of our Democratic colleagues, and I'm very glad to hear that. 
   She alluded to some legislation which we have dealt with in committee and on the floor in the past couple of weeks. She mentions the myth again of all these acres that the oil companies have that they have not drilled on and, therefore, we should take away their leases. Well, I think we have pretty well debunked that myth here on the floor and in committee, and I think the media has done a pretty good job of it too. 
   The oil companies have the greatest incentive to drill on land that they have leased now if there were oil under the ground there. They obviously are smart business people. They know the price of oil is as high as it's ever been. And if there were oil there, they'd be drilling. Obviously, again, our colleagues who are out of touch with how business works don't quite understand that or don't want to accept that. 
   On the issue of speculators, even in the Agriculture Committee when we had hearings, people who came in there who wanted to say that speculators were causing the high price of gasoline absolutely could provide no proof that that was happening. 
   What we have to do is increase the supply of oil to this country. Republicans have stood ready to work with the Democrats all year long on this issue, in fact, ever since the price of gas started going up, again, in direct relationship to the Democrats' being in charge of this Congress. 
   It's a sham what has been happening in this House in terms of our being able to vote on real bills that would increase the supply. These bills wouldn't have failed over and over and over again if that's what the bills were doing. 
   We are hearing increasing comments from Democrats, and we are glad to hear it. Again, we hope the American public continues to put the pressure on them so that they will bring pressure on their leadership. Certainly we want to work with them to increase supply. 
   It appears that they think the law of supply and demand can be repealed, but it can't. So I urge the leadership of the House to bring real bills, bills that would do something to increase the supply of oil and gas to this country, and we will vote with you. But we are not going to try to pass sham bills that do nothing to help the average American citizen. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the resolution we have just debated, and I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (LANCE CORPORAL MATTHEW P. PATHENOS POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. My colleague, Representative Akin, has made very eloquent remarks on this bill. I will submit my comments for the Record, but I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 6208.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of this bill designating the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 1100 Town and Country Commons in Chesterfield, MO, as the ``Lance Corporal Matthew P. Pathenos Post Office Building.'' 
   Marine LCpl Matthew P. Pathenos was more than a selfless patriot. He was a loving son, brother, and friend. 
   As one of his comrades in arms reflected, ``The best thing about Matt was his ability to wake up every day with a smile and hold it all day long.'' Even in the hardships of war, Matt strove to bring joy to his friends. 
   A native of Ballwin, MO, Matt was an avid golfer and accomplished pilot, earning his license at the age of 14. After graduating high school in 2003, Matt followed in the footsteps of his older brother and mentor, Marine Sgt Christopher Pathenos who enlisted in the wake of September 11. 
   In the words of one relative, ``For Matty, the motivation was more about Christopher, seeing how the Corps treated him.'' 
   A member of the 3rd Battalion, 24th Marines, Matthew was one of 80 members of his unit that attached to a sister unit, the 1st Battalion, 24th Marines, for deployment to Iraq in September of 2006. 
   Tragically, on February 6, 2007, Lance Corporal Pathenos lost his life near Fallujah when his Humvee was stuck by an improvised explosive device. 
   His family will always remember him as the smiling young man who ``sang as though no one could hear him and danced as though no one was watching him.'' 
   In a release shortly after his tragic loss, the family captured the sentiments of a grateful nation. ``Like his brother, Christopher, Matthew was proud to be a Marine and volunteered to serve his country. Matthew paid the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom and the future generations of this country. He loved his country and family, and we will miss him terribly.'' 
   I urge my colleagues to support this bill honoring a courageous young man that embodied the deepest ideals of this great Nation. He lost his life in defense of freedom and this sacrifice shall not be forgotten.  
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CORPORAL ALFRED MAC WILSON POST OFFICE -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Conaway and Mr. Davis, my colleagues, have spoken very eloquently about the bravery and sacrifice of Corporal Wilson, so I will submit my remarks for the Record, but I urge all Members to support the passage of H.R. 6437.  
   Mr. Speaker, today I am here to recognize the bravery of Corporal Alfred ``Mac'' Wilson for his heroism in Vietnam by naming the Post Office located at 200 North Texas Avenue in Odessa, Texas in his honor. 
   Shortly after Corporal Wilson's birth on January 13, 1948, he and his family moved from Olney, Illinois to Odessa, Texas. At Odessa Senior High, he was very involved in athletics and was on the football and track teams. A well rounded young man, he also enjoyed shooting, hunting, fishing, and tennis. 
   After graduating from high school and demonstrating a sense of patriotism and duty to country, Corporal Wilson first joined the Marine Corps Reserve and subsequently, enlisted in the Regular Marine Corps. Upon acceptance into the Corps, Corporal Wilson reported to duty in Abilene, Texas with three friends under the Buddy Plan, which placed friends in the same training platoon. Corporal Wilson and his buddies then underwent their recruit training in California. On July 21, 1968, he was deployed as a Private First Class to Vietnam. 
   In Vietnam, while returning from a reconnaissance mission on March 3, 1969, he and his squad were attacked by a concealed enemy force. While facing fire to retrieve a machine gun from an injured gunner, an enemy grenade was thrown between Corporal Wilson and a fellow Marine. At that moment, Corporal Wilson signaled a warning to his comrade and bravely proceeded to throw himself on the grenade, thus sacrificing his own life. His sacrifice ultimately enabled his unit to continue the fight and successfully defeat the enemy. 
   Corporal Wilson's courage under fire was recognized posthumously when he was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor in addition to his posthumous promotion to Corporal. Corporal Wilson's devastated family proudly accepted the Medal of Honor presented by Vice President Spiro T. Agnew on April 20, 1970 at a White House ceremony.  
   We can never show adequate appreciation in honoring the brave men and women who give their lives in service to our country. However, naming the post office in his honor is a fitting and meaningful tribute to a proud Marine who served selflessly on behalf of his town and nation.  
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (OPTIONAL ELECTRONIC PAY STUBS FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I also want to thank Chairman Waxman, Ranking Member Davis, and Mr. Davis from Illinois for their assistance in bringing this bill out of committee and to the floor. I think it is our responsibility as Members of Congress to seek every way possible to save money for the taxpayers of this country, and I appreciate the fact that we're moving this bill along because it is an excellent way for us to save the taxpayers of this country some money. 
   There are currently 2.7 million Federal employees. Many of these 2.7 million Federal employees have the option of accessing their leave and earnings statement, pay stubs electronically rather than the paper version which we receive in our mailboxes. But there are still executive branch agencies that do not offer this option to their employees. H.R. 6073 would direct the Office of Personnel Management to take such measures as they see appropriate to ensure that all executive agency employees have the option of receiving their pay stub electronically. 
   The reason that H.R. 6073 affects only the executive branch agencies and not the legislative branch or the judicial branch is because each branch of the Federal Government has different rules and means of payment regulations. Currently, there are 17 executive branch agencies that do not offer their employees the option of receiving their pay stubs electronically. H.R. 6073 would give these employees the option of having access to their pay stubs electronically. This is not a mandate. 
   Finally, this sensible legislation will save millions of taxpayer dollars and immeasurable amounts of paper. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (OPTIONAL ELECTRONIC PAY STUBS FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, again I want to thank the folks who have helped bring this bill to the floor. 
   I am pleased, again, that we have the potential for saving taxpayers much money, but I hope that by the end of this week we're also going to vote on legislation that would bring down gas prices and save much, much more money on behalf of the American people. I think that we need to do that as responsible Members of this Congress. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CONGRATULATING JAMES MADISON UNIVERSITY FOR 100 YEARS OF SERVICE AND LEADERSHIP -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 1051, congratulating James Madison University  in Harrisonburg, Virginia, for 100 years of service and leadership to the United States. 
   If one word could describe James Madison University, unquestionably that word would be ``bold.'' For 100 years, the institution that began as ``the little school that could'' has charged through the century like a bullet train. The campus began with two buildings, now called Jackson Hall and Maury Hall, that sat on farmland at the outer edge of Harrisonburg. Constant growth and expansion have been a hallmark for the campus ever since. Today, JMU extends over 650 acres of rolling Shenandoah Valley hills and includes more than 100 buildings. 
   Founded in 1908 with unmatched enthusiasm that, after a century, has not diminished, today James Madison University's mission reaffirms the university's long-time commitment to meeting the needs of its students. In its earliest years, JMU's academic offerings included only what would now be called technical training or junior college courses. Today, the university offers more than 100 degree programs on the bachelors, masters, educational specialist and doctor levels. 
   As the university crosses into the new century, the rest of the world is beginning to take notice. Through the individual achievements and service that put the power of knowledge to work embodying President James Madison's belief that a self-governing people ``must arm themselves with the power which knowledge gives,'' JMU is developing, through education, leaders who are well-prepared to help shape the future of the Nation. 
   I am honored to stand before the House today and recognize this fine university. I congratulate the university's president, Linwood Rose, the board of visitors, the students, alumni, and James Madison University for reaching this milestone, and wish the university continued success. 
   I ask my colleagues to support the resolution. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CONGRATULATING JAMES MADISON UNIVERSITY FOR 100 YEARS OF SERVICE AND LEADERSHIP -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, as we reflect on the last 100 years of JMU's history, I want to talk a little bit about a very dark time in our history, the tenure of former President Carter. 
   During Carter's administration, the Nation suffered from oil shortages. These shortages led to record high gas prices that ultimately persuaded the President to turn to the American public for answers. Following a Camp David summit on energy, he addressed the country saying, ``We can't go on consuming 40 percent more energy than we produce. When we import oil, we are also importing inflation plus unemployment.'' 
   ``We have got to use what we have. The Middle East has only 5 percent of the world's energy, but the United States has 24 percent.'' 
   And this one, which President Carter thought was one of the most vivid statements. ``Our neck is stretched over the fence and OPEC has the knife.'' 
   It is truly frightening how technology has advanced since 1977, yet here we are today faced with the same issues that this Democratic Congress refuses to address. When it comes to energy production, while our global competitors are pursuing 21st century technologies, America is stuck in the 1970s. 
   On electricity production alone, for example, just to keep up with the new demand, by 2030 the United States must build 747 new coal plants, 52 new nuclear plants, 2,000 new hydroelectric generators, and add 13,000 new megawatts of renewable power. The dire need to increase domestic oil and gas production is no different, yet the Democratic majority refuses to lead. 
   Republicans are committed to a comprehensive energy reform policy that will increase the supply of American-made energy, improve energy efficiency and encourage investment in groundbreaking research and advance alternative and renewable energy technologies. With 21st century technologies and the strictest standards in the world, America can and must produce more of our own energy right here at home and protect our environment at the same time. 
   I wonder what President James Madison would think of the situation we find ourselves in, and wonder if he would agree with many people who have compared the views of the 2008 presumptive nominee of the Democrat Party with President Carter and the failed policies of his administration. 
   I call on the Democratic leadership to bring forth the proposals that Republicans have made that will help solve the problems, and not put America through what we went through in the 1970s all over again.  
   I yield back the balance of my time.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING THE LIFE OF LOUIS JORDAN ON THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF HIS BIRTH -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 1242, honoring the life, musical accomplishments and contributions of Louis Jordan on the 100th anniversary of his birth. 
   Louis Thomas Jordan, vocalist, bandleader and saxophonist, ruled the charts, stage, screen and airwaves of the 1940s and profoundly influenced the creators of R&B, rock and roll, and post-World War II blues. 
   Jordan was born July 8, 1908 in Brinkley, Arkansas. His father, James Aaron Jordan, led the Brinkley Brass Band. His mother died when he was young. 
   Jordan studied music under his father and showed promise in horn playing, especially clarinet and saxophone. Due to World War I, there were vacancies in his father's band, so Jordan filled in. Soon he was good enough to join his father in a professional traveling show touring Arkansas, Tennessee and Missouri instead of doing farm work when school closed. 
   Jordan briefly attended Little Rock's Arkansas Baptist College in the 1920s and performed with Jimmy Pryor's Imperial Serenaders. He played saxophone and clarinet with them, as well as Bob Alexander's Harmony Kings. 
   In the 1930s, based in Philadelphia, Jordan found work in the Charlie Gaines Band playing clarinet, and soprano and alto sax, in addition to doing vocals, which he recorded and toured with Louis Armstrong. During this time, Jordan also learned baritone sax, and he joined nationally popular drummer Chuck Webb's Savoy Ballroom Band featuring Ella Fitzgerald. 
   Jordan created his own band, which was called Tympany Five, regardless of number of pieces. The small size of Tympany Five made it innovative structurally and musically in the Big Band era. 
   Among the first to join electric guitar and bass with horns, Jordan set the framework for decades of future R&B and rock combos. Endless rehearsals, matching suits, dance moves, and routines built around songs made the band Jordan's singular brand of sophisticated, yet down-home, jump blues and vocals made it a success. 
   In the 1940s, Jordan released dozens of hit songs, including the swinging ``Saturday Night Fish Fry,'' one of the earlier and most powerful contenders for the title of ``First Rock and Roll Record,'' ``Blue Light Boogie,'' the comic classic ``Ain't Nobody Here But Us Chickens,'' ``Buzz Me,'' ``Ain't That Just Like a Woman,'' ``Caldonia,'' and the million-dollar seller, ``Choo Choo Ch'Boogie.''     
   Jordan died in Los Angeles, California, in 1975. A host of prominent musicians claimed his influence, including Ray Charles, James Brown, Bo Diddley, and Chuck Berry. His songs have appeared in commercials, TV, and movies and have been recorded by dozens of popular artists. Louis Jordan leaves a musical legacy that influences popular music as we know it today. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this resolution. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (RECOGNIZING HIGH SCHOOL VALEDICTORIANS OF GRADUATING CLASS OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise today in support of House Resolution 1229, recognizing the achievements of America's high school valedictorians of the graduating class of 2008, promoting the importance of encouraging intellectual growth, and rewarding academic excellence of all American high school students. 
   Valedictorians are the highest academically ranked students in their high school's graduating class. These students have demonstrated consistency in their intellectual inquiry, academic discipline, and utilization of teacher mentoring throughout their high school careers.     
   They serve as peer role models to fellow high school students by succeeding academically and contributing to a culture of excellence in their schools. 
   Valedictorians are charged with the duty of giving a graduation speech that reflects upon the intellectual development and community involvement of the graduating class and inspires all graduating students to further their academic studies and social engagement. These students enjoy the support of family members, teachers, school administrators and community members who have nurtured their intellectual growth and rewarded their academic achievements. This class of seniors will become America's future civic, business and political leaders, maintaining our Nation's global leadership position and strengthening its economic competitiveness. 
   Today I want to especially honor and recognize the valedictorians and graduating seniors of the class of 2008. They have all worked very hard to accomplish the goals they reached on high school graduation day. I know this is not the first outstanding accomplishment for many of these young people, and I am equally certain it will not be the last. 
   I encourage all valedictorians and all graduating seniors to further their intellectual inquiry and academic studies in universities and post-secondary educational institutions across the Nation. 
   To all graduating seniors, I want to say congratulations on your many accomplishments, and enjoy your summer. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this resolution. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (RECOGNIZING HIGH SCHOOL VALEDICTORIANS OF GRADUATING CLASS OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, as we reflect on the valedictorians of the class of 2008, I think it's important that we think about what the Democrats are doing now in the House of Representatives that are going to affect their future. I think that we have to reflect on the fact that the Democrat majority's ``just say no'' energy policy certainly darkens America's energy future: 
   No production of American energy resources, which increases reliance on unstable foreign sources such as Venezuela, Iran and Saudi Arabia. 
   No new oil refineries built, which increases gas prices and reliance on imported fuel. 
   No new transmission lines, which hinders renewable electricity getting to consumers and reduces reliability. 
   No new coal power plants, which increases electricity prices and stifles the economy. 
   No new advanced zero-emission nuclear plants, which blocks one of the cleanest, most reliable energy sources available. 
   No new zero-emission hydroelectric plants, which blocks reliable clean energy. 
   No liquefied natural gas terminals, which increases prices and ships jobs overseas. 
   Democrats' prohibition on producing American energy resources have made the U.S. more reliant on imported oil and natural gas. 
   Democrats' roadblocks on the utilization of energy from our North American neighbors have made the U.S. more reliant on the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC. 
   Democrats' unfavorable tax rules have sent energy investment and production abroad. 
   Democrats' unnecessary red tape and bureaucracy have made it nearly impossible to move forward on new clean power generation. 
   Democrats' 1970s-era energy policies have cancelled dozens of power plants, reducing electricity supplies and increasing electricity costs to consumers. 
   Democrats' refusal to provide incentives for individuals and businesses has made it difficult to invest in efficient technologies. 
   But Republicans have solutions that will fix this problem. We then can look at meeting our energy needs with American-made energy in the future. 
   The comprehensive House Republican plan will fund research and development of technologies and innovations which advance the use of renewable and domestically available energy sources, increase energy efficiency, and ease the environmental impacts of energy use. 
   We will increase the production of American-made energy in an environmentally safe way. 
   We support actions that reduce America's dependence on energy from unstable foreign governments and dictatorships by increasing domestic production of oil and natural gas in an environmentally safe way. 
   And we promote unconventional fuels such as coal-to-liquid technology by recovering our vast oil shale reserves and increasing access for environmentally responsible development of conventional and unconventional domestic oil and natural gas production.  
   We want to provide coal-to-liquids financing and tax incentives. We want to advance the commercialization of the Nation's 2 trillion barrel shale oil resource, 80 percent of which occurs on government-owned land in the West. This is enough to supply all of America's needs for over two centuries. 
   We are promoting new, clean and reliable power generation. We encourage more production of environmentally safe energy to increase the use of our vast domestic supply, reduce emissions, and keep coal-dependent communities strong. 
   We want to expand emissions-free nuclear power, including long-term nuclear waste storage solutions and recycling spent fuel by providing production and investment tax credits for all new base-load electricity products such as advanced nuclear power and clean coal, and allowing immediate expensing for new renewable or zero-emission power. 
   We want to cut red tape and increase the supply of American-made fuel and energy by expediting permitting for enhanced oil recovery projects, including CO  
   2 delivery and injection, as well as permitting for new refining capacity. 
   We want to improve environmental review and permitting to encourage the deployment of technologies which increase the efficiency of existing power plants. 
   And we want to end ill-advised policies that have led to the proliferation of unique gasoline and diesel fuel formations known as ``boutique fuels'' which have fragmented our motor fuels distribution system, choked off supply, and exacerbated the already painful Pelosi Premium. 
   We are encouraging greater energy efficiency by offering conservation tax incentives. We support technologies to help increase energy efficiency in all sectors of the American economy, including removing bureaucratic regulatory barriers that prevent businesses from upgrading their facilities with newer, more efficient energy technologies. 
   We want to make home energy efficiency upgrades tax deductible, provide incentives for homebuilders and homeowners to make their homes more energy efficient, offer investment expensing for industrial and commercial building efficiency upgrades, extend the residential and business solar and fuel cell investment tax credits, with enhancements to the residential solar credit ($2,000 per 1/2 kilowatt installed), extend the fiber-optic distributed sunlight investment tax credit, and increase energy efficiency of government-owned facilities. 
   With that, Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (RECOGNIZING PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS, AS BEING HOME TO THE EARLIEST KNOWN REFERENCE TO THE WORD ``BASEBALL'' -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Madam Speaker I rise today in support of House Resolution 1050, recognizing Pittsfield, Massachusetts, as being home to the earliest known reference to the word ``baseball'' in the United States. 
   The question of the origins of baseball has been the subject of debate and controversy for more than a century. Baseball, as well as the other modern bat, ball, and running games, were developed from earlier folk games. Previous beliefs held that baseball was invented in 1839 by Abner Doubleday in Cooperstown, New York. This belief provided the rationale for baseball centennial celebrations in 1939, including the opening of a National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum. Still, few historians and even the hall's vice president believed that Cooperstown was indeed the birthplace of the game, most preferring to believe that ``baseball wasn't really born anywhere.'' 
   In 2004, however, historian John Thorn discovered a reference to a 1791 bylaw prohibiting anyone from playing ``baseball'' within 80 yards of the new meetinghouse in Pittsfield, Massachusetts. The so-called ``Broken Window Bylaw'' soon became the earliest known reference to baseball in North America and allowed Pittsfield to lay claim to the honor. 
   Baseball is unique among American sports in several ways. This uniqueness is a large part of its longstanding appeal and strong association with the American psyche. Some philosophers describe baseball as a national religion. This popularity has resulted in baseball's being regarded as more than just a major sport. Since the 19th century, it has been popularly referred to as the ``national pastime,'' and Major League Baseball has been given a unique monopoly status by the Supreme Court of the United States. 
   Baseball is fundamentally a team sport. Even a team blessed enough to have two or three Hall of Fame-caliber players cannot count on success. Yet it places individual players under great pressure and scrutiny. Many Americans believe that baseball is the ultimate combination of skill, timing, athleticism, and strategy. The pitcher must make good pitches or risk losing the game. The hitter has a mere fraction of a second to decide whether to swing. The field players, as the last line of defense, make the lone decision to try to catch it or play it on the bounce, to throw out the runner at first base or to try to make the play at home. 
   Baseball has truly provided countless Americans fond memories of their youth over the years, and I am honored to stand here today recognizing Pittsfield, Massachusetts, as being home to the earliest known reference to the word ``baseball'' in the United States. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this resolution. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (RECOGNIZING PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS, AS BEING HOME TO THE EARLIEST KNOWN REFERENCE TO THE WORD ``BASEBALL'' -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. The rising cost of gas and energy prices throughout this country threatens many aspects of our lives, and the ability to attend baseball games this summer is one of those. The notion that Washington is broken is exemplified in the Democratic majority's refusal to address soaring energy prices. 
   Two years ago, then-Minority Leader Pelosi promised the American people a ``commonsense plan'' to lower gasoline prices, but Democrats have not only failed to offer any meaningful solutions, they've put forward policies that will have precisely the opposite effect. As a result of their inaction, oil, gasoline, and electricity prices are as high as they have ever been. Once a nightmare scenario, $4 plus gasoline has become a harsh reality on Speaker Pelosi's watch, and now Americans are paying nearly $1.50 more per gallon at the pump than when the Speaker took office. 
   This Pelosi Premium is hitting working families hard, at a time when they are confronting high costs of living, a slowing economy, and a housing crunch. This has to change. 
   Republicans are committed to a comprehensive energy reform policy that will boost supplies of all forms of energy right here at home to reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy, protect us against blackmail by foreign dictators, create American jobs, and grow our economy, all those things as basic to us as our of love of baseball. 
   This includes increasing the supply of American-made energy, improving energy efficiency, and encouraging investment in groundbreaking research in advanced alternative and renewable energy technologies. With 21st century technologies and the strictest environmental standards in the world, America must produce more of our own energy right here at home and protect our environment at the same time. That is the change America deserves. 
   To help ease the pain of the Pelosi Premium, House Republican leaders have also embraced short-term legislation that would suspend the 18.4 cents per gallon Federal gas tax this summer and establish a corresponding freeze on all taxpayer-funded earmarks to ensure the Highway Trust Fund will not be impacted. Savings from the earmarks freeze also would be applied towards reducing the Federal deficit. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING TERRITORIES OF THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise today in support of House Concurrent Resolution 2, expressing the sense of the Congress that schools in the United States should honor the contributions of individuals from the territories of the United States by including such contributions in the teaching of the United States history. 
   Scholars say that teaching history to children has many important lifelong benefits. History provides them with identity. Studying history improves their decision-making and judgment. History highlights models of good and responsible citizenship. History also teaches students how to learn from the mistakes of societies' past. History helps them understand change and societal development, and it provides a context from which to understand others. 
   Students today need to be engaged in substantive historical content. Only through curriculum that provides solid, exciting historical narratives and working with materials firsthand will students grasp the essential events of American history and proficiently comprehend the crucial issues of modern society. 
   Included in our schools' history curriculum should be a look at the contributions of individuals from the territory of the United States. From revolutionary times through the second World War, these territories have played significant roles in American history. 
   Individuals who lived in U.S. territories, including Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Midway Islands, the Mariana Islands, and American Samoa have all contributed to the history and cultural fabric of our country in unique ways. As such, the stories of their accomplishments and challenges should be passed down to our young people and included when we talk about the rich history of this great country. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this resolution. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING TERRITORIES OF THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, unfortunately, as I was listening to the Delegate speak, I realized that the failed energy policies of the Democratic majority are going to be hurting these very groups of folks, because people can't afford to fly there for vacation; the prices of tickets have gone up so much that it is going to hurt significantly the tourism industry. 
   Also, I think as we study the history of the contributors from the territories of the United States, we need to call attention to people to the history of the actions of the Democrats and Republicans in relation to American-made oil and gas, which is a history of support and opposition. 
   When it comes to taking meaningful steps to provide affordable energy to the American people, Congress has the ability and responsibility to act. Unfortunately, a clear pattern has emerged over the years as one party consistently has fought to increase access to home-grown energy reserves while the other has consistently voted to expand America's dependence on foreign unstable energy instead.     
   We have compiled the facts by the issues. 
   ANWR exploration: House Republicans, 91 percent supported; House Democrats, 86 percent opposed. 
   Coal-to-liquid: House Republicans, 97 percent supported; House Democrats, 78 percent opposed. 
   Oil shale exploration: House Republicans, 90 percent supported; House Democrats, 86 opposed. 
   Outer Continental Shelf exploration: House Republicans, 81 percent supported; House Democrats, 83 percent opposed. 
   Refinery increased capacity: House Republicans, 97 percent supported; House Democrats, 96 percent opposed. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING TERRITORIES OF THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I went over the list of differences in ways that Republicans have suggested that Americans become energy independent from foreign sources of oil. I want to give a summary of those now. 
   I have stated that the gap has been as much as 97 percent of House Republicans supporting increasing refinery capacity, and 96 percent Democrats opposing increased refinery capacity. 
   The summary of all of the issues I have outlined was 91 percent of House Republicans have historically voted to increase the production of American made oil and gas, while on average 86 percent of House Democrats have historically voted against increasing the production of American made oil and gas. 
   My interest and the interest of other Republicans is in keeping this country as the greatest country in the world and ending our dependence on foreign oil. I call on the Democratic majority to join with Republicans in taking action toward this goal. 
   Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF BLACK MUSIC MONTH -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise today in support of House Concurrent Resolution 372, supporting the goals and ideals of Black Music Month and to honor the outstanding contributions that African American singers and musicians have made to the United States. 
   From the days of slavery and discrimination, through the progress of the Civil Rights movement, to today, black music has told the story of the African American experience. In addition to giving voice to black struggles, faith, and joys, African American music has helped also to bring people together. During Black Music Month, we celebrate this integral part of music history by highlighting the enduring legacy of African American musicians, singers, and composers. 
   In the early days, black music was used to share stories, spread ideas, preserve history, and establish community. These spirituals eventually evolved into a genre that remains vibrant and very meaningful today, gospel music. This great musical tradition developed under the leadership of people like Thomas Dorsey, who was known as the Father of Gospel Music. 
   In the early 20th century, the progression of jazz took place all over the country, from the deep south of New Orleans and the Mississippi Delta, to northern cities such as Chicago and New York. Jazz captured the interest of 20th century America, making household names of great African American artists like Louis Armstrong, Charlie Parker, Ella Fitzgerald, and Miles Davis. The unparalleled brilliance of these and other great jazz musicians had an extraordinary effect upon the American musical tradition, while bringing great pleasure to millions of fans. 
   Later, rhythm and blues emerged, synthesizing elements from gospel, blues, and jazz; and from these styles came the birth of rock and roll.     
   A fabulous array of artists helped to pioneer this modern musical transformation, including Chuck Berry, Ray Charles, Marvin Gaye, Aretha Franklin and Stevie Wonder. 
   African American music continues to influence the American music scene today with styles such as rap and hip-hop. As we celebrate the many creative and inspiring African American artists whose efforts have enhanced our Nation, we recognize their enduring legacy and look to a future of continued musical achievement. 
   I ask my colleagues to support this resolution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CONGRATULATING THE TOWN OF JONESVILLE ON ITS NEW TOWN HALL -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, today I want to congratulate the people of Jonesville, North Carolina on the completion of their new town hall. Jonesville's new town hall will serve both as a government center and the hub for the town's tourism outreach efforts. 
   While I was unable to attend the grand opening event this past Friday due to Congress being in session, congratulations are in order for everyone in Jonesville who helped make this important project a success. I want to praise Mayor Lindbergh Swain for his leadership and also the people at USDA Rural Development for their help in securing critical financing for the new town hall. 
   This town hall, which replaces the town's more than half century old town hall, promises not only to give the town a new government seat but also to bolster the local tourist economy. Tourism is a growing segment of the local economy in Yadkin and surrounding counties, and this new facility is a wise investment in drawing new tourist dollars to Jonesville. I applaud Jonesville for its forward thinking mindset, and hope to visit the new town hall in the coming weeks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ADVANCED FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - February 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word. 
   Mr. Chairman, I want to identify a little bit with my colleague from Georgia who was here talking about this being the smoke-and-mirrors Congress. There are so many things being talked about that aren't true. Today, I was speaking with one of my constituents at home from Wilkes County, Angela Henley. The issue of airplanes came up, and she said to me, you know, I think the officials should adopt the principle to lead by example and not by extravagance. I said, you know, these are the kinds of things, this is the reason we ought to be going home more instead of spending all this time we are spending in Washington. 
   The majority party wants people to believe that you have got to be in Washington, because that is where all the wisdom of the world is. But I think it is this Beltway mentality that gets us in trouble all the time, and gets people to thinking that we as Members of Congress are here to be served, not to serve. 
   I said here this morning in opening remarks that I am very troubled by this whole affair. I came here to serve the people of the Fifth District of North Carolina. I don't think that we are supposed to be treated like kings and queens. 
   We came here to do the work of the people. It is called the people's House, and I think it is very important that we do that. 
   What is happening is, the mentality of the majority party is that all the wisdom of the world is in Washington, D.C., the only work that gets done is in Washington, D.C. We should be here 5 days a week, not be in our district with the average American citizen. 
   Well, you lose track of what the average American citizen is dealing with. That is why I thought Angela Henley's comments were so brilliant today when I talked to her. 
   Again, elected officials should adopt the principle to lead by example and not by extravagance. That is the message that needs to be sent. That is not the message that is being sent by the majority party and by the Speaker in her example. 
   What we need to be doing is we need to make sure we are doing what is right by the American people and not putting additional burdens on them by adding costs. 
   The other thing I want to mention is, there has been a lot made about the fact that the Department of Defense has approved this. This was a headline in yesterday's paper saying the appropriators are going to get out of the departments what they want by twisting the arms of the various departments and agencies. And we all know that there is a close relationship between some of the appropriators and the Speaker, and I have no doubt that the appropriators are going to get from the departments what it is they want from them, to justify anything at all that they want to justify whether it is extravagant or not. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (LET'S SAVE MONEY, NOT WASTE IT -- (House of Representatives - February 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise in disbelief concerning the recent discussion about an airplane for the Speaker. Time and again Members of this body, and more importantly the American people, have been promised that this would be the most ethical and fiscally responsible Congress ever. Many things have clearly derailed that pledge, including a continuing resolution spending billions of dollars without any scrutiny. 
   What we are seeing here is a mentality of waste. I take the Speaker's word that she did not request the luxurious plane to transport her. However, it is troubling to me that the mentality of others is such that they would recommend more than what is needed. 
   We are the people's House, and the people expect us to spend their money wisely. We are here to serve, not live like kings and queens. This is an opportunity for us to review procedures and seek ways to save money, not waste it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORT FOR OUR TROOPS -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today in full support of our troops and H.R. 511, legislation reaffirming Congress's support for the troops deployed in a theater of war. Those overseas protecting us from further terrorist attacks and fighting nobly on the Global War on Terror deserve our steadfast support. 
   The President has recognized missteps and offered a new direction and plan for victory. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle have yet to address the issue, except to criticize the President's plan before it has even been implemented. It was Leader BOEHNER and the Republican Conference that have called upon the Speaker to create a select committee on oversight to hold the President and Prime Minister Maliki accountable for progress in Iraq. 
   Madam Speaker, I stand here with pride and offer my full support to the brave soldiers who are helping foster democracy in the Middle East, while, at the same time preventing terrorists from attacking us on our soil. So many Members pledged ``We will never forget.'' Well, that is a promise I made and intend to fulfill. 
   To our troops, thank you for your dedication, bravery and noble work to make the world and America a better place, following in the footsteps of so many American heroes. 
   I commend Congressman Sam Johnson, an American hero, and urge support of H.R. 511. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (34TH ANNIVERSARY OF ROE V. WADE -- (House of Representatives - January 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, anniversaries are commonly recognized as a cause for celebration. Yet today the 34th anniversary of Roe v. Wade is no cause for celebration. While I am inspired by the thousands of citizens who came to Washington to march for life, I am truly disheartened by those who celebrate this ``anniversary,'' a date which marks an overactive judiciary allowing the destruction of human life. 
   This judicial opinion's 34th anniversary marks the Federal judiciary's usurpation of the Republic's right to set social and moral policy through the electoral process. Moreover, the science behind the opinion is outdated and should, at the very least, be reevaluated in light of new advancements in science over the last 34 years. 
   Many legal scholars see the finding in Roe v. Wade as nothing more than judicial activism, a poorly written opinion lacking logic and the strict interpretation of the Constitution in rendering said opinion. 
   The real legacy of Roe v. Wade is a culture war that will likely continue through many of the opinion's anniversaries yet to come. 
   Mr. Speaker, today is no cause for celebration. It is yet another example of judges legislating from the bench. Human life is a gift from God, and we all should cherish and protect it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (STAFF SERGEANT MARVIN ``REX'' YOUNG POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is an honor for me to speak on the floor today to name a post office in Odessa, Texas, for a truly great American. 
   Marvin ``Rex'' Young was a genuine war hero at the young age of 21. He grew up in Odessa, Texas, and was quite athletic during high school, playing both football and baseball. A smart student, he also enjoyed art and spent time painting. His plans were to attend Texas Tech University after graduating from high school, but, unfortunately, he never got the chance. 
   Rex Young joined the U.S. Army in September of 1966 and was deployed to Vietnam in 1967. He served with Company C, 1st Battalion (Mechanized), 5th Infantry, 25th Infantry Division as a staff sergeant. He was wounded twice during the war, once in December, 1967, and again in February, 1968. But it was on August 21, 1968, in a true act of heroism that he would provide the ultimate sacrifice for his country. 
   He was acting as a squad leader on a reconnaissance mission in South Vietnam. His unit was attacked by the enemy and received a barrage of incoming fire. The forward platoon lost its commander, so Rex Young instinctively took command and organized his men into a defensive position, all the while under heavy enemy fire. 
   In attempting to withdraw, he allowed his men to retreat while he stayed behind providing covering fire. It was during this action that he was critically injured. Heroically, he still managed to help the other members of his unit to retreat while continuing to cover for them. As more infantrymen pulled back, he remained behind to ensure their safe withdrawal. While the group fought its way back, he was hit again in the leg and in the arm. Fearing that seeking medical aid would slow down his team, he refused it. It was there that he sacrificed himself for the safety of his comrades. 
   It was this act of selfless bravery, courageous leadership, and heroism that earned him the country's highest military award, the Congressional Medal of Honor. The medal was posthumously awarded to his family by President Nixon on April 17, 1970. It is for those same reasons that we name this post office for Marvin ``Rex'' Young in his hometown. 
   I ask all Members to join me in supporting H.R. 1425 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to my distinguished colleague from the State of Texas and the person who introduced this resolution (Mr. Conaway). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (STAFF SERGEANT MARVIN ``REX'' YOUNG POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I think it is very appropriate that this week, just before Memorial Day, we are honoring these several people who have sacrificed their lives so that the rest of us can be here and be free. I particularly want to thank Mr. Conaway for his comments about not just recognizing in a collective way the people who have given their lives and who have served, but who have done it in a personal way. This morning I had the honor to recognize Mr. Larry Bauguess, who has recently lost his life in Afghanistan on behalf of our country. 
   I urge all Members to support the passage of H.R. 1425. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING THE LIFE, LEGACY AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF LAMAR HUNT -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, the world of professional sports lost one of its strongest enthusiasts this past December when Lamar Hunt lost his long battle with prostate cancer. 
   Widely known throughout the professional sports industry, his inspirational career helped the National Football League, the Major Soccer League and the National Hockey League become the massive successes they are today. 
   Born in El Dorado, Arkansas, and raised in Dallas, Texas, Lamar Hunt was a passionate sports fanatic. He played on his college football team at Southern Methodist University, but his real involvement began when he applied for an expansion to the National Football League in 1959. He was turned down, and a year later he decided with a group of eight others to form the American Football League. Facing tough competition from the NFL, he was determined to become the owner of a Texas football team. His first team ownership came with the founding of the Dallas Texans. 
   A few years later, the team moved to Kansas City and became the Kansas City Chiefs, which Hunt would continue to own until the time of his death. His Chiefs went on to play in the first-ever Super Bowl game, which, by the way, was the term he coined as the championship game between the two leagues. 
   Lamar Hunt was instrumental in the merger between the National Football League and the American football League in 1970. Beyond football, he made similar efforts in the fields of soccer, tennis and hockey. He helped establish the World Championship Tennis Circuit, Major League Soccer, and its predecessor, the North American Soccer League. At the time of his death, he owned two MLS teams, the FC Dallas and the Columbus Crew. He even furthered his ownership enterprise as one of the original owners of the Chicago Bulls NBA team. 
   Among his numerous awards and honors, he has been inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame, the National Soccer Hall of Fame and the International Tennis Hall of Fame. The American Football League trophy presented each year to the AFL champion team is aptly named the Lamar Hunt Trophy. 
   It is only right that we honor Lamar Hunt for his innovation, dedication and enthusiasm to the national sports industry. His achievements in sports and charitable contributions, as well as his work in theme parks and industrial parks, are to be commended. He was an inspiration to those in the NFL, and his legacy will continue through his teams. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING CAPTAIN LARRY BAUGUESS -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the incredible sacrifice, patriotism and valor of the life of Captain Larry Bauguess of Moravian Falls, North Carolina. Captain Bauguess, an officer in the 82nd Airborne, fell in the line of duty last week as he left a meeting on the Pakistan and Afghanistan border and came under enemy fire. He was a man of true courage and principle who served our Nation with distinction with the United States Army since 1993.  
   He was a man who not only knew the value of liberty but also cherished his family, never taking their love or respect for granted. He will be remembered as a paratrooper of great valor, impeccable honor and tremendous faith, a father who gave his children an unblemished legacy, a husband of unflagging commitment, a son who evoked the greatest pride. 
   Captain Bauguess is survived by his wife, Wesley, and two daughters, Ryann and Ellie. His absence leaves a hole in the Bauguess family, the 82nd Airborne and in his community. 
   I am confident that he will long be remembered as a man who knew the meaning of sacrifice and the call of duty to family and country. 
   Mr. Speaker, my thoughts and my prayers are with Captain Bauguess' wife, daughters and extended family. May they sense God's comforting presence during this trying time. Our Nation is blessed to call him an honored son. We pledge our commitment to the family he left behind, and we mourn his passing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (GEORGE B. LEWIS POST OFFICE BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the dedicated public servants working for American citizens in making our neighborhoods a better place in which to live. George B. Lewis, the Blue Creek Postmaster, is one such man. 
   Lewis' career serving his country began when he enlisted in the United States Navy in February 1946. He then returned to his work on the family cattle farm in Adams County until September 1950, when at the age of 22 he was drafted by the Army and sent to Korea. In Korea, Lewis was recognized as a leader, and he earned the rank of tank sergeant. 
   Honorably discharged in 1952, Lewis again returned to work on the family farm. Three years later, Lewis was appointed to the position of the Blue Creek Postmaster, a job he held until retirement. Not only did George Lewis serve his community as postmaster for 47 years, but he played a major role in forming the Jefferson Township Volunteer Fire Department and then went on to serve as the chief of that department. 
   He was also very active in the community, sitting on the Adams County Hospital Board, the Adams County Agricultural Society and Fair Board director. As the proud father of five children, he also served as the president of the Jefferson Township Parent-Teacher Association. 
   Lewis died on October 25, 2000, from lung cancer. With his recognized accomplishments in the Armed Forces, his devotion and services to Blue Creek as postmaster, and his longtime record of community service, it is fitting for to us pay tribute to the lifetime achievements of George B. Lewis by naming the Blue Creek Ohio, postal facility in his honor. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (LEONARD W. HERMAN POST OFFICE -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   It is an honor for me to speak today about a true American hero who epitomized bravery and loyalty to his country. Leonard Herman was a decorated World War II veteran who helped save the lives of his fellow servicemen, as well as thousands of civilian victims of the war. He was also instrumental in bringing appropriate attention to President Truman regarding the needs of Holocaust survivors and other displaced persons. 
   Leonard Herman served as a bombardier with the U.S. Army and flew in countless combat missions over Germany. Honoring his country, he proudly completed two tours of duty. Among his awards are the Purple Heart, the Air Medal, three Oak Leaf Clusters, and the Distinguished Flying Cross. Fighting against heavy enemy fire, his valiant skills as a bombardier directly saved the lives of his fellow crewmen on repeated occasions. 
   During the war he saw firsthand the plight of his fellow Jews, the Holocaust survivors, and urgently began a letter-writing campaign to senior U.S. Government officials, as well as to President Truman. 
   Through his determination, U.S. policies towards these victims and other displaced persons were enacted so as to provide the food, shelter and clothing they desperately needed to begin new lives. 
   Today we honor Leonard Herman for his great service to his country and his humanitarian achievements by naming this post office for him.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (STAFF SERGEANT OMER ``O.T.'' HAWKINS POST OFFICE -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise this afternoon to pay tribute to a remarkable soldier and another true American hero. On October 14, 2004, SSGT Omer ``O.T.'' Hawkins from Cherry Fork, Ohio, gave his life in service to our Nation. He was killed when his convoy hit a roadside bomb outside Ar Ramadi, Iraq. O.T. was only 31 years old. 
   Born on November 29, 1972, O.T. always knew that he wanted to join the Army. When he was only 10 years old, O.T. wrote a letter to the Army asking if he could sign up despite his being so young. At North Adams High School, O.T. showed his leadership while participating in many school activities. He was a member of the Academic Team, played baseball and was voted ``Most Likely to Succeed'' by his senior class. 
   After high school he could have pursued just about any career, yet the military remained his number one love and lifelong goal. Only 2 days after his high school graduation, and 8 years after he wrote that priceless letter to the Army expressing his desire to join, he reported to basic training. 
   O.T. was not only following his personal dream, he was following in the footsteps of his father who served proudly as an engineer in the Marine Corps. 
   Once in the Army, O.T. quickly developed a leadership style armed with an arsenal of wit and knowledge, a perfect combination that was recognized by his comrades and superiors. Having served on tours of duty in Afghanistan, Bosnia, Egypt, Kosovo and Somalia, O.T. was a deeply respected and beloved leader. His colleagues have described him, as ``a stunning leader and a great man,'' and said that ``his aura always gave great hope to his soldiers.'' 
   O.T. loved this country more than anything else and was proud to serve in the protection of its citizens. Friends and family will forever remember O.T.'s dedication to the cause of freedom and his commitment to bringing that cherished freedom to people around the world where he served. 
   It is with gratitude for his bravery and sacrifice and for the sacrifice of those who loved him that I ask all Members to join me in naming the Cherry Fork, Ohio, postal facility in his honor. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING JORDAN CARLSON AND THOR-LO -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend THOR-LO, Incorporated, of Statesville, North Carolina, for its commitment to fighting breast cancer. This company, which makes specialized socks for almost any activity, has pledged $250,000 as a national sponsor for the Breast Cancer 3-Day campaign. 
   The campaign will raise funds through a dozen 3-day 60-mile walks in cities across the Nation and will support the Susan G. Komen for the Cure foundation. But the story doesn't stop there. 
   THOR-LO first became involved in this effort through the example and spirit of a young woman in Mocksville, North Carolina. Jordan Carlson is the  daughter of Jan Carlson, a woman who has twice fought off breast cancer. Jordan has the ambitious goal of participating in all 12 of the 60-mile walks. By walking more than 700 miles, Jordan plans to raise $1 million to help fight breast cancer. 
   It was her request for walking socks that brought THOR-LO into the picture last year. THOR-LO has not only committed $250,000 to the 3-day campaign, the company has also designed a sock especially for the thousands of 3-day walkers. They call it the HERO Everyday Walker and are donating one additional dollar for every new sock that they sell. The special HERO sock is almost entirely pink and sports a pink breast cancer ribbon to commemorate the cause for which 3-day walkers will be raising money. 
   THOR-LO employees designed the new sock after going on a trial walk with Jordan last year. The sock is specifically designed for the form of the female foot and is made to withstand the tough conditions of 3 days of almost nonstop walking. 
   The partnership of THOR-LO with Jordan Carlson is a triumph of the spirit of American compassion and generosity. Jordan's example has inspired THOR-LO to support a great philanthropic cause and to offer not only generous financial support, but to bring THOR-LO's sock making know-how to the thousands of walkers who will raise millions to find a cure for breast cancer. 
   It is my hope that Jordan's story and partnership with THOR-LO will serve to inspire her family, friends and classmates and everyone who hears about it to follow in her footsteps. 
   I commend her and all those at THOR-LO, especially the employees who worked to design and produce these special socks. How fortunate for us to live in a country where people care so much. 
   Jordan has discovered one of the secrets of a life well-lived: selfless devotion to a cause larger than herself. I believe that this young woman's passion to help find a cure will lead her to inspire countless Americans to grasp the great American ideals of generosity and hard work in the service of noble causes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (ZIMMER ORTHOPAEDICS OF STATESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA -- (House of Representatives - December 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, earlier this fall I had the privilege to visit Zimmer Manufacturing in Statesville, North Carolina. During my visit to Zimmer's Statesville facility, I witnessed a thriving company committed to producing high quality surgical  products. But as impressed as I was with Zimmer's Statesville plant, I was more impressed with the company's dedication to its employees and their safety. 
   This summer the Zimmer plant logged more than 1 million safe hours with no injuries or illnesses that resulted in lost work days. That is nearly four straight years of providing a flawless safety record. So I was not surprised when I found out later that Doug Pond, the supervisor at Zimmer, won first place in the annual North Carolina Statewide Safety Talk Contest hosted by the North Carolina Industrial Commission in Greensboro, North Carolina. 
   I congratulate Zimmer of Statesville for its impressive safety record and for its commitment to providing an accident-free workplace. During these uncertain economic times, it's good to talk about a company that is doing something right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (WAIVING REQUIREMENT OF CLAUSE 6(a) OF RULE XIII WITH RESPECT TO CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN RESOLUTIONS -- (House of Representatives - December 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I thank my colleague for giving credit to that great area where I live. 
   I drive GM cars. Everybody in my family drives GM cars. My daughter  has Ford cars. So we are very sympathetic. I have a lot of great friends who are automobile dealers, and I love them. They have been very kind to me over the years. We are good friends. 
   But, folks, this is the wrong direction to go. We do not need to be bailing out the domestic auto manufacturers. And I am opposed to this same-day rule. There is an old saying: ``Act in haste and repent at leisure,'' and that is what we are going to do. 
   We had another bailout here a couple of months ago. It was misunderstood, I think, as the only option that we had, and people said you got to vote, you got to vote, you got to do it. That bailout has turned out to be a disaster because we were pushed into it. Things didn't go through regular order. We didn't have time to debate. 
   We have alternatives here. As my friend from Georgia said, let the companies go bankrupt. Let them reorganize. This is not a bailout of the domestic automobile manufacturers so much as it is a bailout of the unions. 
   And they are not the only manufacturers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (WAIVING REQUIREMENT OF CLAUSE 6(a) OF RULE XIII WITH RESPECT TO CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN RESOLUTIONS -- (House of Representatives - December 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. My colleague from Michigan so eloquently stated that we won World War II because of the strong manufacturing base we had in this country. But these domestic car manufacturers are not the only base that we have. We have a great manufacturing base. 
   And I am opposed to the Federal Government creating the czar position too. When in the world has the Federal Government ever done anything better than the private sector? Never, that I know of. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (REAL ENERGY SOLUTIONS -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I want to thank my colleague from Georgia (Mr. Westmoreland) for the great leadership he's providing on this issue today and other days here in the Congress. I think it's extremely important to explain to the American people what is not happening in the Congress, even though they are asking us to do things. 
   Now, I am very much a person of action. I believe in getting as much done as we possibly can. The old saying is, as long as the Congress is not in session, the American people are safe. And we often accomplish a lot of negative things here, but on this issue, that is what we have done is accomplish a lot of negative things. We need to be accomplishing positive things. 
   I think my colleague well-characterized what's been going on as a charade. When I was in the General Assembly in North Carolina, I often gave an award called the Emperor's New Clothes Award because I gave it to bills that didn't do anything but that nobody was willing to say wasn't doing anything. And I think what the Democratically-controlled Congress--and that's what we have to keep saying because many Americans blame both Democrats and Republicans for not doing something--but they have to understand that it is the Democratically-controlled Congress that's creating the problem here. What they've done has been a charade. It deserves the Emperor's New Clothes Award, and I hope most people have read that little book and understand the issue that I'm talking about. 
   Let me say that these are very recent polls that have been done. Sixty-seven percent of the American people believe drilling should be allowed in offshore wells off the coast of California, Florida and other States. Sixty-two percent believe that the price of gas has gotten so high that we need to begin drilling for oil in an environmentally safe way. And 57 percent support allowing drilling in U.S. coastal and wilderness areas now off limits. 
   And let me contrast the opinion of the American public with what the Democrats have done over the years. 
   In the last 12 or 14 years, there have been many bills put in, one on drilling in ANWR, and 91 percent of Republicans supported that; 86 percent of Democrats opposed it. 
   Turning coal-to-liquid, which is a good way to be using coal, 97 percent of Republicans supported it; 78 percent of House Democrats opposed it. 
   Oil shale exploration, 90 percent of House Republicans supported it; 86 percent of Democrats opposed it. 
   The Outer Continental Shelf, 125 miles off the coast of the country, you're not going to see the wells. You're not going to see the effect, and we can do it without polluting the ocean or polluting our environment in any way. Eighty-one percent of House Republicans supported; 83 percent of House Democrats opposed it. 
   Increasing refinery capacity, my colleague has done a very fine job of explaining why that's important to increasing supply. Ninety-seven percent of House Republicans supported it; 96 percent of House Democrats opposed it. 
   So over the last 12 or 14 years, on the bills that have come up on these issues, on average 91 percent of House Republicans have voted to increase the production of American-made oil and gas, while 86 percent of House Democrats have historically voted against it. 
   We need to increase the supply. I believe that part 
   of the problem is because the Democrats are so out of touch with what's happening in America. Many of them have been in Washington 50 years or more. They don't go home on weekends. They don't associate with average Americans. They've never worked in a business. They have no idea how all the businesses in America are being affected. 
   My family runs a nursery and landscaping business. To put a vehicle out on the road, especially one that uses diesel fuel, is costing two-and-a-half times what it cost a year ago, 18 months ago, when the Democrats took over. 
   All we've gotten from the Democrats are empty promises, and as I said, they deserve the Emperor's New Clothes Award because it doesn't work. 
   Their latest Emperor's New Clothes Award claim has to do with use-it-or-lose-it, which is already the law of the land. They're blaming the oil companies. They are so good at blaming everybody else and deflecting attention from themselves when they're the ones to blame. They want to blame the oil companies. They want to say the oil companies are making a huge profit. It's not popular to defend oil companies, but right now, the oil companies' profit is about 7.5 cents on the dollar. The average profit of most businesses in this country, the Standard and Poor's businesses, those listed on the stock exchange, is about 8.5 percent. I heard the other day Microsoft is about 21 percent. But I don't see the Democrats going after them. 
   Generally, they hate business and industry because they think they're the evil people in this country, but thank goodness we have had the oil companies providing the oil and gasoline that we've needed over the years. 
   So they want to do something called use-it-or-lose-it. Well, you know, folks, the oil companies already have a clause in their contracts. They either drill for oil within 10 years or they lose the lease. Guess who changed the lease time from 5 years to 10 years. The Democrats, back in 1992. Do you ever hear them admit that? No, they don't admit it, but that's what happened. 
   We already are regulating the oil business tremendously. They are not the problem. It's the Democrats who are the problem. And we can't say that often enough on this floor because not enough Americans are listening. Half the people in the country think Republicans are still in charge. We're not in charge. We're the good guys. We're the ones wanting to produce more American-made products for you to use. We didn't say we had a plan to bring down the price of gasoline, but we do, and our plan will work. 
   We're still waiting for Democrats to bring their plan. They haven't brought it. We'd love to see it. But as my colleagues said, it's a charade. I like that term, and I want to say it deserves the Emperor's New Clothes Award because, folks, it ain't there. 
   So I thank my colleague for sharing some time with me today and for  bringing this Special Order to the floor today and helping people understand before the weekend, as you go out there and you are filling up your tanks, you can hold responsible the Democratically-controlled Congress, the do-nothing-to-produce-more-energy Congress for the problems that you're having. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE DEMOCRAT BUDGET -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I always come over here with the intentions of using my prepared remarks, and then I hear things being said by the other side and they usually grab my attention. 
   I want to talk tonight a little bit about the Democrat budget, but something that one of my colleagues said just a few minutes ago needs to be repeated. 
   He said, budgets are what you stand for and believe. Well, what the Democrats stand for and believe is greater government spending, taking more of your money and giving to the government. 
   And he also said, this budget doesn't go as far as some wanted. Well, that is the truth, I am sure. I am sure there were many Democrats who wanted to raise taxes a whole lot more and spend a whole lot more of the American people's money than they are going to do, but they are going to do plenty of damage, even not going as far as some of them want to go. 
   So the truth is, they told it to you tonight. The budget is what you stand  for and believe; and what they stand for and believe is, again, taking more of your money and spending it. 
   A lot of times I speak to school groups. I spoke to one on Monday.     
   And they often ask me, What is the difference between Democrats and Republicans? And I tell them that the short answer to that is Democrats believe that government is the answer to everything. Just have more government. Take more money from the American people and put it into government. Republicans think that Americans have survived very well on individual initiative, entrepreneurship, and individual responsibility, and we don't need the government to run our lives completely. So there is a big difference. 
   Also, the Democrats think the government knows how to spend your money more than you know how to spend your money. Republicans think that you are quite intelligent enough to know how to spend your money and we don't need to take it away from you and give it to some bureaucrat to spend it for you. So that is the big difference. And I think, again, the Democrat budget illustrates that. 
   It also illustrates how out of touch they are with the citizens of this country. As one of my colleagues said the other night, and I wish it had been my line, they promised change, but what they didn't tell you was it was going to be the change left in your pocket from taking your money away from you for increased taxes. 
   Now, under the assumptions in the Democrats' proposed budget that is going to be voted on tomorrow, we are going to see a massive tax hike. In fact, you are going to see the largest tax increase in our Nation's history. The Democrat budget increases taxes by $392.5 billion over 5 years, shattering their last record tax increase of $240 billion in 1993, when they were last in control of the Congress. In fact, they would increase taxes by $231 billion in 2012 alone. 
   Today, almost 100 million Americans from virtually every walk of life have a financial plan for their future that involves saving and investing, and millions more benefit from the countless jobs and opportunities that a capital marketplace creates. In addition, more than half of America's seniors receive dividend income every year and more than 30 percent receive capital gains income. 
   Under the Democrat budget, these seniors will see a tax increase of an average of $1,100 on dividends and capital gains. Overall, 28 million American families will pay an additional $1,000 a year in new investment taxes as a result of the budget. Many of these people earn annual incomes of $50,000 and less. 
   This is more than just a reckless policy that endangers the strength of our economy. I see it as a cause for serious concern for the livelihood of the people of North Carolina's Fifth District, whose tax bills would skyrocket under the proposed budget. In North Carolina alone, more than 3.1 million taxpayers would see their tax bill go up. It wouldn't be a little bump either. The average tax increase for those 3.1 million North Carolinians would be $2,671. 
   This approach is completely backwards. We should be looking first to put money back into taxpayers' pockets, not taking it out.  
   The current budget proposal is a squandered opportunity to reform spiraling Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid costs and to give Americans the permanent tax relief they deserve. Instead it allows widespread tax increases that hit middle-income families, low-income earners, families with children, small businesses, and many others. 
   Some people would see more than a 100 percent increase in their taxes. For example, an elderly couple with $40,000 in income would see a tax increase of 156% in 2011--from $583 to $1,489. 
   And a family of four with $60,000 in income would have a tax bill that would rise from $3,030 to $4,893 in 2011--an increase of more than $1,850, or 61%. 
   And these increases are no accident. During the budget markup, Democrats rejected every one of a series of amendments that would have prevented tax increases. 
   But ultimately, this budget proposal isn't a real surprise. It's business as usual for the Democrats and proves that their promises to be fiscally responsible are just empty rhetoric. If this budget is approved it will signal a return to the Democrats' beloved Tax-and-Spend model for government. 
   For example, if you take one look at the more than $20 billion in pork that was added to last week's troop emergency funding bill, it becomes crystal clear where the Democrats stand on spending. And worse, they proved they don't mind using our troops as bargaining chips. 
   Democrats have willfully abandoned their pledge of fiscal responsibility. They pledged to follow pay-as-you-go budget rules and spending restraint to curb the deficit. And then we get this budget, which would give us the largest tax increase in history and ignore the larger consequences for our economy. 
   These massive tax increases would threaten to reverse the economic gains that have developed since adoption of the 2001 and 2003 tax laws. 
   Job Growth--A total of 7.6 million new jobs have been created--an average of 168,500 per month. 
   Unemployment Declines--The unemployment rate has fallen from 6.1 percent to 4.5 percent. 
   Economic Growth--In the past 15 quarters, real gross domestic product [GDP] has grown an average of 3.5 percent per year. In the nine prior quarters, average GDP growth was an anemic 1.1 percent. 
   Investment Growth--Business investment has increased for 15 straight quarters, reversing a previous nine-quarter decline. 
   Stock Market Gains--Despite recent market corrections, the Dow Jones Industrial Average remains 41 percent above its 2003 level. 
   Ignores Fiscal Benefits--These tax increases also threaten to reverse the substantial deficit reduction that has occurred in the past several years. 
   Total federal tax revenue has increased from 16.5 percent of GDP in 2003 to 18.5 percent this year--exceeding the average percentage of the past four decades. 
   Tax revenue grew by 14.6 percent in 2005, 11.5 percent in 2006, and 9.3 percent in the first five months of fiscal year 2007. 
   Deficit Reduction. This revenue growth was the principal factor in reducing the budget deficit from $412.7 billion in 2004 to an estimated $214 billion this year, according to the Congressional Budget Office. 
   Raising the 10% Tax Rate Bracket to 15 percent--More than 5 million individuals and families who previously owed no taxes would become subject to the individual income tax in 2011 if Democrats are successful in raising the 10% tax rate bracket to 15%, and reducing or eliminating other low-income tax benefits. 
   Eliminates Marriage Penalty Relief--23 million taxpayers would see their taxes increase, on average, by $466 in 2011. 
   Cuts the Child Tax Credit in Half--31 million taxpayers would see their taxes increase, on average, by $859 in 2011. 
   Every Working American Would be Affected by Democrats' Tax Hike--115 million taxpayers would see their taxes increase, on average, by $1,795 in 2011; 83 million women would see their taxes rise, on average, by $2,068; 48 million married couples would incur average tax increases of $2,899; 12 million single women with children would see their taxes increase, on average, by $1,082; 17 million elderly individuals would incur average tax increases of $2,270; and taxes would rise, on average, by $3,960 for 26 million small business owners.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (TRIBUTE TO RUTH BELL GRAHAM -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in remembrance of Ruth Bell Graham, wife and confidante of the Reverend Billy Graham. Ruth Graham died last week at the age of 87, having lived a rich and selfless life of service. 
   She epitomized the faithful wife and mother and was a close spiritual adviser who probably did more than any other human being to make possible the global ministry of Billy Graham. I doubt whether we exaggerate when we say that Billy Graham could not have been the man he is known as today without the unwavering support of his wife. 
   While she may not have claimed much of the spotlight in his life, she raised a family that to this day is having a tremendous impact on the world. 
   Reverend Graham paid her the best tribute. He said that Ruth Graham was ``the most incredible woman I have ever known.'' And when asked to name the finest Christian he had ever met, Billy Graham would always say, ``My wife, Ruth.'' 
   In tribute to her, he said that, ``She was a spiritual giant, whose unparalleled knowledge of the Bible and commitment to prayer were a challenge and inspiration to everyone who knew her. No one else could have borne the load that she carried. She was a vital and integral part of our ministry, and my work through the years would have been impossible without her encouragement and support.'' 
   Despite her declining health in recent years, she always placed her husband and family before herself. She gladly accepted a role in the Graham family that involved offering support, prayer and encouragement. Never one to clamor for the public eye, Ruth nonetheless was a vital part of Billy Graham's ministry. She was a bulwark against the demands of the endless public involvement of Billy Graham's many responsibilities as a worldwide evangelist. 
   Ruth Bell Graham was born in China in 1920 to her medical missionary parents at a Presbyterian Hospital far north of Shanghai. She spent her childhood on the mission field, and sensed a calling to serve God and give her life to spread the gospel. 
   Ruth connected with her eventual home in North Carolina when she completed high school in Montreat, North Carolina, while her parents were home from China on furlough. She would later enroll in Wheaton College where she met her future husband, the fervent evangelist hailing from Charlotte, North Carolina. 
   After no small internal struggle over her desire to become a missionary, Ruth decided to invest her life in the mission of evangelism that so captivated Billy, and they were married in Montreat on August 13, 1943. 
   As Billy Graham's responsibilities as an evangelist continued to grow, Ruth and Billy moved to Montreat near her parents. Here, Ruth would raise a family of five children strong and stand behind the man who was preaching to millions of people across the world. 
   Ruth was a woman who lived the written word and treasured the Bible. She enjoyed assisting her husband as he wrote sermons and was an accomplished author herself. Over the course of her life, she would author or coauthor more than a dozen books. 
   She also did not hesitate to start ministries of her own. Always concerned with reaching out to those in need, whether her local community or the global community, Ruth Graham created the Ruth Bell Graham International Children's Health Fund to help the world's neediest children and helped create the Ruth and Billy Graham Children's Health Center in Asheville. 
   Franklin, their son, founded Samaritan's Purse Ministry which is based in Boone, North Carolina. 
   Ruth enabled and freed her husband to concentrate on his evangelistic calling. When he needed someone to turn to, Billy Graham knew that he could turn to her for counsel, encouragement and an intellect steeped in learning the scripture. 
   Our thoughts and prayers are with the Graham family today as they mourn the passing of a peerless wife, sacrificial mother and faithful friend. May her memories serve to remind us of the profound meaning of a life given in service to God and family. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE THREAT OF IRAN AND SYRIA -- (House of Representatives - January 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to address the growing threat of Iran and Syria and their involvement in the current war in Iraq. 
   As President Bush pointed out in his speech Wednesday night, we live in difficult times and are facing types of enemies never seen before. These terrorists are bent on the destruction of Western Civilization. I am pleased the President acknowledged the threat of Iran and Syria and included monitoring the borders of Iraq as an essential part of the solution to the Iraq conflict. 
   Seventy percent of American casualties in Iraq come from IEDs provided by Iran. This must be dealt with divisively or we will continue to lose the brave men and women who are fighting a noble cause in the global war on terror. 
   In addition, intelligence estimates show that at least 32,000 people are being paid by Iran to interfere with American efforts in Iraq. It is clear we cannot win in Iraq without dealing with Iran. They are determined to dominate the Arabian peninsula with their radical and twisted version of Islam, and to defeat and humiliate the United States in our efforts to help Iraq build a strong and stable democracy to serve as a model in the Middle East 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (RECOGNIZING PERIANESTHESIA NURSE AWARENESS WEEK -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to praise and recognize the efforts of the Nation's more than 57,000 perianesthesia nurses. This week is PeriAnesthesia Nurse Awareness Week, a week that is dedicated each year to celebrating the important work that perianesthesia nurses do. 
   America's perianesthesia nurses practice in all phases of preanesthesia and postanesthesia care, ambulatory surgery, pain management, and special procedure areas. 
   The theme of this year's awareness week is ``Advocacy.'' The American Society of PeriAnesthesia Nurses has designated advocacy as this year's theme in recognition of how the depth and breadth of perianesthesia nursing meets the varied health care needs of the American population in a broad range of nursing environments. 
   The American Society of PeriAnesthesia Nurses, which represents the perianesthesia nurses of this country, strives to advance nursing practice through education, research, and standards. The important work of perianesthesia nurses is best exemplified by their commitment to quality health care and the safety of patients in both hospital and ambulatory surgery settings. 
   Our Nation's demand for perianesthesia nurses will increase in the coming years as the American population ages, as we make new advances in medicine that prolong life, and as we continue to witness the meteoric expansion of home health care services. Perianesthesia nurses play a vital role in the operation and success of our Nation's health care system. 
   I ask my colleagues and my fellow Americans to join me in honoring the perianesthesia nurses who care so unselfishly and professionally for us all. The work they do happens every day all year round, and I hope they receive our appreciation on more than just this special week in their honor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (TAYLORSVILLE VFW AUXILIARY AND TAYLOR KING SUPPORT DEPLOYED TROOPS -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I rise today in honor of a group of true American patriots. 
   This past Christmas, a group of citizens in Taylorsville, North Carolina worked hard to communicate to our men and women stationed overseas that they are in our prayers and on our mind. 
   A civic-minded band of women in the Veterans of Foreign Wars Auxiliary from the rural community of Taylorsville worked together to rally their community to send care packages to local Armed Forces members stationed abroad during Christmas. The sacrifice of military service during Christmas is often overlooked during a time when many of our brave military men and women are stationed abroad, making this effort all the more meaningful to the soldiers they aided. 
   Thanks to the selfless work of Margaret Milsap, Mary Lasky and Jeanette Stevenson, which was spearheaded by Mary Matthews, more than 80 care packages were sent to 30 deployed soldiers during this past Christmas. Taylor King Furniture, a Taylorsville business, generously footed the entire bill for the mailing of the 80-plus packages. 
   Together, the VFW Auxiliary and Taylor King provided a slice of home to 30 soldiers serving in foreign countries during Christmas. I hope their example of citizenship and patriotism during uncertain times serves to inspire many more Americans to show their support for our troops who fight for freedom every day.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (IRAQ RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I am appalled by what is happening in this Chamber this week. We are taking full advantage of the freedoms that we have while good men and women are dying to protect us, and we are undermining their efforts. 
   The other side has done some very awful things for political gain in this session. But this event is the pit of hypocrisy, not the height of hypocrisy. History has shown that involvement and sending all of the resources necessary was essential to winning World War II. And we did, in fact, preserve freedom and democracy. 
   Many Americans were against World War II, calling for isolationism and pacifism, hoping that Hitler would stay true to his word regardless of the extensive military buildup. The United States had no choice but to enter the war to save Europe and democracy. That was the definitive conflict of that era; we are now facing the definitive conflict of ours. 
   Mr. Speaker, this is a tremendous disservice to our troops, their families and the American tradition of being honorable liberators fighting for democracy. This resolution is an insult to our troops and the American people. 
   We are leaders in our body. It is time that we came together and act as leaders, leave politics aside to fight terrorism and support our troops. We owe to it ourselves, the people we represent and future generations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, a true patriot, Mr. Johnson. 
   Madam Speaker, I rise today not only in support of the brave men and women of the American Armed Forces, but also in support of the cause for which they fight. They heroically give of themselves every day to ensure the safety of our Nation and the freedom that we Americans enjoy. 
   Like my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I want America's troops home as soon as possible, but disengaging at this time would invite the terrorists to follow us home. This resolution sends the wrong message and will have grave consequences. It will demoralize our troops and embolden our enemies. We are combating a global adversary who sees an enemy in any Nation that supports the ideals of freedom. In the interest of democracy, global safety and rural peace, victory in Iraq is absolutely crucial. 
   While some seem happy to complain about the war, they have offered nothing in the way of a solution to defeat the jihadists. It is fine to disagree, but your opinion holds little weight if you fail to offer a constructive alternative. Leadership takes strengths and courage to succeed in the face of adversity, although mistakes may be made along the way. 
   Many comments have been made by those who support this resolution, but one that deserves a response is the oft-repeated phrase that this is an impossible war to win. What a terrible attitude for Members of the United States Congress to have. 
   What if George Washington had succumbed to the critics of his day who said those things? What if Abraham Lincoln, FDR and President Truman had taken that attitude? Where would we be now? We are here today because people who came before us refused to listen to the naysayers and the defeatists. 
   The true leaders of this Nation have always focused on the possible and accomplished it. These people remind me of the attitude of the Carter administration in dealing with Iran. 
   Let me quote a recent article by Dinesh D'Souza. `` ..... they are willing to risk the country falling into the hands of Islamic radicals. Little do the people waging 'the war against the war' know that in exchange for a temporary political advantage, they are gravely endangering America's security and well-being, ultimately even their own.'' 
   Let us band together as Americans, put aside political differences to show that we understand the need to defend freedom for the long and short terms. This is the decisive battle of our generation, and this is a defining moment of our time. 
   We cannot afford to lose and should vote ``no'' on this resolution  
   How We Lost Iran--And Why We Can't Afford Another Loss in Iraq   
   There are four important Muslim countries in the Middle East: Iran, Iraq, Egypt and Saudi Arabia. Islamic radicals control Iran, and have since the Khomeini revolution a quarter century ago. Now they have their sights on Iraq. If they get Iraq, we can be sure they will target Egypt and Saudi Arabia. Let's remember that this is a region upon which the United States will continue to be oil-dependent for the foreseeable future. If the Islamic radicals succeed, the American way of life will be seriously threatened. 
   To understand the high stakes in Iraq, it's helpful to understand what happened in Iran a generation ago. How did America ``lose'' Iran, and how can we avoid another debacle in Iraq? Islamic radicals have been around since the 1920s, but for decades they were outsiders even in the Muslim countries. One of their leading theoreticians, Sayyid Qutb, argued that radical Muslims could not just promulgate theories and have meetings; they must seek to realize the Islamic state ``in a concrete form.'' What was needed, he wrote, was ``to initiate the movement of Islamic revival in some Muslim country.'' Once the radicals controlled a major state, he suggested, they could then use it as a beachhead for launching the takeover of other Muslim countries. The ultimate objective was the unification of the Muslim community into a single Islamic nation, governed by Islamic holy law. 
   In 1979, Qutb's goal was achieved when the Ayatollah Khomeini seized power in Iran. Muslim scholar Hamid Algar terms the Khomeini revolution ``the most significant event in contemporary Islamic history.'' It was an event comparable to the French or the Russian revolutions. Virtually no one predicted it, yet it overturned the entire imperial structure and created a new order, even a new way of life. The mullahs restored the Islamic calendar, abolished Western languages  from the schools, instituted an Islamic curriculum, declared a new set of religious holidays, stopped men from wearing ties, required women to cover their heads, changed the banking system to outlaw usury or interest, abolished Western-style criminal and civil laws, and placed the entire society under sharia, or laws based on the Koran. 
   The importance of the Khomeini revolution is that it demonstrated the viability of the Islamic theocracy in the modern age. Before Khomeini, the prospect of a large Muslim nation being ruled by clergy according to 8th-century precepts would have seemed far-fetched, even preposterous. Khomeini showed it could be done, and his successors have shown that it can last. To this day, post-Khomeini Iran provides a viable model of what the Islamic radicals hope to achieve throughout the Muslim world. Khomeini also popularized the idea of the United States as a ``great Satan.'' Before Khomeini, no Muslim head of state had said this about America. Muslim leaders like Nasser might disagree with the United States, but they never identified it as the primary source of evil on the planet. During the Khomeini era, there were large demonstrations by frenzied Muslims who cursed the United States and burned its flag. For the first time, banners and posters began to appear all over Iran: DEATH TO AMERICA! THE GREAT SATAN WILL INCUR GOD'S PUNISHMENT! USA, GO TO HELL! AMERICA IS OUR NO. 1 ENEMY! These slogans have since become the mantra of Islamic radicalism. Khomeini was also the first Muslim leader in the modern era to advocate violence as a religious duty and to give special place to martyrdom. Since Khomeini, Islamic radicalism has continued to attract aspiring martyrs ready to confront the Great Satan. In this sense, the seeds of 9/11 were sown a quarter of a century ago when Khomeini and his followers captured the government in Tehran. 
   Khomeini's ascent to power was aided by the policies of Jimmy Carter and his allies on the political left. The Carter administration's own expert on Iran, Gary Sick, provides the details in his memoir ``All Fall Down,'' a riveting story that has been largely erased from our national memory. Carter won the presidency in 1976 by stressing his support for human rights. From the time he took office, the left contrasted Carter's rights doctrine with the Shah's practices. The left denounced the Shah as a vicious and corrupt dictator, highlighting and in some cases magnifying his misdeeds. Left-leaning officials such as Secretary of State Cyrus Vance, U.N. envoy Andrew Young and State Department human-rights officer Patricia Derian pressed Carter to sever America's longstanding alliance with the Shah. Eventually Carter came to agree with his advisers that he could not in good conscience support the Shah. 
   When the Shah moved to arrest mullahs who called for his overthrow, the United States and Europe denounced his actions. Former diplomat George Ball called on the U.S. government to curtail the Shah's exercise of power. Acceding to this pressure, Carter called for the release of political prisoners and warned the Shah not to use force against the demonstrators in the streets. When the Shah petitioned the Carter administration to purchase tear gas and riot-control gear, the human-rights office in the State Department held up the request. Some, like State Department official Henry Precht, urged the United States to prepare the way for the Shah to make a ``graceful exit'' from power. William Miller, chief of staff on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said the United States had nothing to fear from Khomeini since he would be a progressive force for human rights. U.S. Ambassador William Sullivan even compared Khomeini to Mahatma Gandhi, and Andrew Young termed the ayatollah a ``20th-century saint.'' 
   As the resistance gained momentum and the Shah's position weakened, he looked to the U.S. government to help him. Sick reports that the Shah discovered he had many enemies, and few friends, in the Carter administration. Increasingly paranoid, he pleaded with the United States to help him stay in power. Carter refused. Deprived of his last hope, with the Persian rug pulled out from under him, the Shah decided to abdicate. The Carter administration encouraged him to do so, and the cultural left celebrated his departure. The result, of course, was Khomeini. 
   The Carter administration's role in the downfall of the Shah is one of America's great foreign-policy disasters of the 20th century. In trying to get rid of the bad guy, Carter got the worse guy. His failure, as former Democratic senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan once said, was the result of being ``unable to distinguish between America's friends and enemies.'' According to Moynihan, the Carter administration had essentially adopted ``the enemy's view of the world.'' Carter does not deserve sole discredit for these actions. This intellectual framework that shaped Carter's misguided strategy was supplied by the political left. 
   Of course, the primary force behind the Shah's fall was the fundamentalist movement led by Khomeini. But it is possible that the Shah, with U.S. support, could have defeated this resistance. Another option would have been for the United States to use its influence to press for democratic elections, an option unattractive both to the Shah and to the Islamic militants. Even after the Shah's departure, a U.S. force could have routed the Khomeini regime--an action that would have been fully justified given Iran's seizure of the U.S. embassy and the taking of American hostages. Determined at all costs to prevent these outcomes, the left sought not only to demonize the Shah but also to favorably portray Khomeini and his radical cohorts. In Sick's words, Khomeini became ``the instant darling of the Western media.'' The tone of American press coverage can be gleaned from Time's cover story on Feb. 12, 1979: ``Now that the country's cry for the Ayatollah's return has been answered, Iranians will surely insist that the revolution live up to its democratic aims. Khomeini believes that Iran should become a parliamentary democracy. Those who know the ayatollah expect that eventually he will settle in the holy city of Qom and resume a life of teaching and prayer.'' 
   Immediately following Khomeini's seizure of power, political scientist Richard Falk wrote in the Feb. 16, 1979, New York Times, ``To suppose that Ayatollah Khomeini is dissembling seems almost beyond belief. He has been depicted in a manner calculated to frighten. The depiction of him as fanatical, reactionary and the bearer of crude  prejudices seems certainly and happily false. His close advisers are uniformly composed of moderate, progressive individuals ..... who share a notable record of concern with human rights. What is distinctive about his vision is the concern with resisting oppression and promoting social justice. Many non-religious Iranians talk of this period as Islam's finest hour. Iran may yet provide us with a desperately needed model of humane governance for a Third World country.'' 
   The naivet&#233; of Falk's essay is of such magnitude as to be almost unbelievable. Falk should have known better, and I believe he did know better. Sick notes that in terms of the kind of regime he wanted to institute in Iran, ``Khomeini was remarkably candid in describing his objectives.'' As an expert on international relations, Falk was surely familiar with what Khomeini had been consistently saying for three decades. Along with Ramsey Clark, former attorney general in the Johnson administration, Falk met with Khomeini on his last day in Paris, before his triumphal return to Iran. Shortly after that meeting Clark conducted a press conference to champion Khomeini's cause. Falk, too, seems to have acted as a kind of unpaid public-relations agent for the ayatollah's regime. 
   Upon consolidating his power, Khomeini launched a bloody campaign of wiping out his political opposition and reversing the liberties extended by the Shah to student groups, women's groups and religious minorities. In one year, the Khomeini revolution killed more people than the Shah had executed during his entire quarter-century reign. Despite the fact that many progressive figures were imprisoned, tortured and executed, 
   Khomeini's actions produced a great yawn of indifference from America's cultural left. The same people who were shocked and outraged by the crimes of the Shah showed no comparable outrage at the greater crimes of Khomeini. They knew, as well as everyone else, that liberty would be largely extinguished in Iran, and they greeted this prospect with equanimity. 
   Even when radical students overran the U.S. Embassy in Tehran on Nov. 4, 1979, and took more than 60 American hostages, the left's sympathy was with the hostage-takers. During this period, three liberal clergymen--William Sloane Coffin of New York's Riverside Church, National Council of Churches executive director William Howard and Catholic Bishop Thomas Gumbleton--visited the hostages and looked with approval as they recorded anti-U.S. statements for use as Iranian propaganda. The U.S. religious leaders did not seem embarrassed to be used by the Iranian hostage-takers. Many of the allegations against the United States launched by the Iranian radicals corresponded exactly with the views of these liberal clergymen. Going beyond the expectations of the hostage-takers, Coffin even faulted his fellow Americans for ``self pity'' and urged them to hold hands with their captors and sing. In the hostage crisis, these clergymen quite consciously contributed to America's humiliation. 
   By aiding the Shah's ouster and with Khomeini's consolidation of power, the left collaborated in giving radical Islam its greatest victory in the modern era. Thanks in part to Jimmy Carter, Muslim radicals got what they had been seeking for a long time: control of a major Islamic state. Now, irony of ironies, Carter and some of the same people who lost Iran are back in the news, criticizing the Bush administration for what it is doing in Iraq. Some of their points may be valid, but once again, they are forgetting that when you try and get rid of something terrible, you should at least make sure that you don't get something even more terrible. Carter never understood that, and he still doesn't. Rather than dispensing advice, the 39th president should be offering the United States an apology. 
   Yes, what's going on in Iraq today is not pretty, but that could be said of just about any war. In trying to escape from a difficult situation, America should not put itself into an even more perilous situation. We should always keep in mind what's at stake in this conflict. Today in Iraq, the Islamic radicals are after their second big prize. Iraq is, in a sense, even more important to the radicals than Iran. The reason is that the Khomeini Revolution, despite its global aspirations,  proved to be very difficult to export. Iranians are Persian, and thus ethnically distinct from the Arabs who dominate the Middle East. 
   Even within Islam, Iranians belong to the Shia minority, while 80 percent of Muslims worldwide are Sunni. Consequently, Islamic radicals have been attempting for the better part of two decades now to carry the revolution beyond Iran, to bring a second Muslim state under radical control, and to establish a model for theocracy and terrorism that the Sunni majority in the Islamic world can emulate. So unlike in Vietnam, the United States faces an adversary that is not merely ideologically hostile, but one whose success would threaten our vital interests and our security, as well as our economic well-being. 
   Given this, the insouciance and even anticipation with which some of the Bush administration's critics propose prompt U.S. withdrawal from Iraq is remarkable. In a recent article in Harper's, former presidential candidate George McGovern proposed that the United States get out of Iraq, give up its bases there, apologize for having invaded in the first place, accept responsibility for any bloodbath that ensues, and offer to pay reparations to Iraq for its war crimes. This advice goes beyond recklessness. What do McGovern and his allies think is going to happen when U.S. troops leave? They seem eerily eager for the insurgents to topple the elected government and seize power. 
   Apparently their dislike for President Bush is great enough that they are willing to risk the country falling into the hands of Islamic radicals. Little do the people waging ``the war against the war'' know that, in exchange for a temporary political advantage, they are gravely endangering America's security and well-being, ultimately even their own.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DESERVE ACTION ON ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Madam Speaker, I've listened to these Democrats talk. It's their typical response: more government funding and creating dependency on the Federal Government. 
   In 2006, Democrats promised relief from high priced gas prices. Since they gained control of Congress, gas prices have more than doubled. We continue to wait for the Democrats to unveil an energy plan that will actually lower prices for Americans at the pump. So far, all we hear is drilling takes too long. 
   That's the kind of shortsighted thinking that got us into this reliance on foreign oil in the first place. They don't want to hear about long-term solutions. 
   So I have good news for you. Even the announcement of drilling will immediately affect the market price of oil. 
   President Bush announced the lifting of an executive moratorium, and the next day, oil dropped $8 a barrel. The market responds to information, and it will respond even to the announcement. 
   A second good piece of news for those who don't want to begin a long-term solution is there is already a pipeline in Alaska. It doesn't hold anywhere near its full capacity. Let's fill it with oil from ANWR. We'll see a price change soon. 
   What the American people deserve is action. The message to the Democrat majority is do it here, do it now, do it for America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR DESIGNATION OF DISABILITY PRIDE DAY -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, today there are approximately 51 million Americans living with one or more disabilities. This means approximately 18 percent of Americans report having one or more disabilities, which may include physical impairment, sensory impairment, cognitive or intellectual impairment, mental disorder or various types of chronic disease.     
   Without the contributions of Americans with disabilities we would be without some of our best athletes, artists, and most brilliant minds. 
   Jim Abbott, the only person in Major League Baseball to be born with one hand, has thrown a no-hitter and has won Olympic gold. Patty Duke, who was diagnosed with manic-depressive disorder, won three Emmy Awards for made-for-television movies and is a nationally recognized actress. Stephen Hawking, who was diagnosed with ALS, is one of the premier physicists in the world. 
   One-legged downhill skiers have been clocked during sporting events going more than 70 miles an hour. Authors without limbs have written best-selling novels. Blind violinists have played in Carnegie Hall. And the list goes on and on. 
   Americans with disabilities have contributed to America's culture and society in ways many of us with lesser challenges could not dream of. House Resolution 1355 recognizes the designation of Disability Pride Day, and urges everyone to honor Americans with disabilities. 
   I'm happy to join my colleague, Representative Danny Davis of Illinois, in support of this resolution and ask my colleagues to do the same. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (HONORING THE LIFE AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF KATHERINE DUNHAM -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 655, honoring the life and accomplishments of Katherine Dunham. 
   Katherine Mary Dunham was an American dancer, choreographer, songwriter, author, educator and activist who was trained as an anthropologist. Dunham had one of the most successful dance careers in American and European theater of the 20th century. 
   She formed a ballet group called Ballet Negres, the first black ballet company in the United States. Upon receipt of her degree in anthropology in 1936, she was awarded a fellowship and left for the West Indies to do field research in anthropology and dance. From this initial field work, Dunham generated her master's thesis for her degree from Northwestern University in 1947. She lectured widely and published numerous books. 
   During this time, Dunham also began her investigations into an expression of movement that would form the core of the Katherine Dunham technique. What Dunham gave modern dance was a combination of African and Caribbean styles of movement which she integrated with techniques of ballet and modern dance. 
   In the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s, Dunham was renowned throughout Europe and Latin America. For more than 30 years, she maintained the Katherine Dunham Dance Company, the only permanent, self-subsidized American black dance troupe at that time, and over her long career she choreographed more than 90 individual dances. Dunham's works have been performed on Broadway and on film, and have left an indelible mark on modern dance. 
   Today, we honor the life of Katherine Dunham and her contribution to the arts and to the world. I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (SUPPORTING THE DESIGNATION OF A NATIONAL CHILD AWARENESS MONTH -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 1296, supporting the designation of September as National Child Awareness Month. 
   The National Child Awareness Month will recognize that a long-term commitment to children and youth is in the public interest. This designation will also encourage widespread support for the charities and organizations that seek to provide a better future for the children and youth of the United States. 
   With that, I thank the gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert) for introducing this bill. I ask for my colleagues' support in designating September as National Child Awareness Month.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (RECOGNIZING AND CELEBRATING THE 20TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE NATIONAL BLACK ARTS FESTIVAL -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise today in support of House Resolution 1286, recognizing and celebrating the 20th anniversary of the National Black Arts Festival. 
   The National Black Arts Festival was founded in 1987 after the Fulton County Arts Council commissioned a study to explore the feasibility of creating a festival dedicated to celebrating and advancing the work of artists of African descent. The study provided compelling reasons why the Atlanta community was the right place for such a festival, and with Fulton County government as the major sponsor, joined by additional corporate and foundation sponsors, the Festival's first biannual summer festival was held in 1988. 
   The 10-day event served as the country's first-ever summer festival featuring hundreds of artists of African descent. Half a million attendees took part in a triumphant celebration of African art, music and culture. 
   Over the last 20 years, artist and attendees alike have come to expect emerging and renowned artists to grace the stages and exhibit spaces of the city; collectors look eagerly to the artists' market for the next opportunity to buy from some of the best artists in  the country; film fans flock to the screenings of known and unknown work; and concert halls are filled with the voices and instruments of those who are considered to be the best in jazz, gospel, R&B and everything in between. 
   As the festival established itself as one of the most important festivals in the world presenting the art and culture of the African diaspora, it seized the opportunity to expand the year-round educational and humanities programming in addition to hosting the festival every year. 
   The NBAF connects with people of all ages and races and celebrates diversity, while striking a common chord that resonates with all Americans like no other festival or arts organization. The festival is a cultural institution dedicated to serving artists, audiences, teachers and students by providing opportunities for artistic and creative expression and sponsoring educational and humanities programs to deepen historical and cultural understanding of African and African American culture. 
   To date, the NBAF has touched over 5 million people and is one of the premier festivals in the world. Today we honor it for its 20 years of dedicated service to the arts and education in the greater Atlantic area as well as to the country. 
   I urge all of my colleagues to support this resolution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (AMERICAN ENERGY ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I don't think anyone could have heard that wonderful 5-minute speech just given by the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Wamp) without being touched and without reflecting on how much we owe our men and women who are fighting every day to protect us and to allow us the opportunity to do what we do here and for everyone else in this country to do what they do. I also want to express my appreciation. I feel very humbled to come here and speak after him. 
   But I do want to talk about something that is very important to all of our military families, and that is the price of gasoline in our country and what is happening and not happening in our country related to that. 
   In 2006, Speaker Pelosi, Majority Leader Hoyer, and many other leaders in the Democratic Party promised the American people if they would give them control of Congress, they would do things differently. They said that they would bring down the price of gasoline. Well, the price of gasoline has almost doubled under their watch, and we have yet to see any kind of plan. 
   However today, House Republicans introduced a bill, H.R. 6566, the American Energy Act, that is a comprehensive measure to reduce gas prices ``by harnessing new technologies, encouraging greater conservation and efficiency, and increasing American energy production in an environmentally safe manner.'' 
   House Republicans will push for an up-or-down vote on the legislation before Congress adjourns for the August recess in 9 days. Our leader, Congressman Boehner, has issued a statement on this bill: House Republicans have a plan to lower gas prices by supporting more production of American energy, encouraging more conservation and efficiency, and promoting greater use of alternative fuels. 
   Today we have transferred our plan into a single bill that reflects our all-of-the-above strategy. We have only 9 days remaining before the August recess, and it is time for Speaker Pelosi to bring this bill to the floor so Members on both sides of the aisle can give it the support we all know it would receive. 
   A solid majority of Americans and a bipartisan majority in Congress support more production of American-made energy to help bring down the price at the pump. For months on end, Democratic leaders have instead clung to the anti-American energy policies that have driven gas prices to historic levels and increased our costly and dangerous dependence on foreign sources of oil and gas. By blocking a vote on the all-of-the-above plan to reduce energy costs, Speaker Pelosi, Majority Leader Hoyer and their colleagues in the Democratic leadership are proving themselves complicit in the financial crunch American families feel every time they fill up their tanks. Congress must not adjourn for the August recess without giving the American Energy Act an up-or-down vote, and House Republicans will continue to fight to hold Democratic leaders accountable until the American people get the vote they expect and deserve. 
   What Americans need to say to the Democratic leadership: Do it here; do it now; do it for America. We can be energy independent. We have the means.  The good Lord has given us the resources we need. Americans need to demand it of the Democratic leadership in the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (EDUCATION -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I really appreciate Representative Garrett putting together this Special Order tonight. 
   While I missed the very beginning of it, I know we often share Special Orders when we are dealing with the Constitution, and I think it a bit ironic that we are here on Constitution Day dealing with this issue which we often talk about in terms of the Constitution and the role of the Constitution and the Federal Government in dealing with education. 
   Let me say, first of all, you have been here a bit longer than I have and have worked on some of these issues longer than I have, and you have excellent credentials. But I want to say, to sort of establish my credentials a bit, that I come from a background of education serving on the school board of Watauga County for 12 years. I was an administrator at Appalachian State University, I was an instructor, and I was a community college president. My doctorate degree is in curriculum and teaching in higher education, so this is an issue I am very passionate about and have been all of my life. 
   I understand the importance of education. I understand the importance of an excellent education for helping people break the cycle of poverty and for unleashing talents and skills. I know that No Child Left Behind is not the answer to what we need to be doing in this country in terms of unleashing the tremendous potential that exists with young people in this country. 
   I want to thank you for introducing H.R. 3177, the Local Education Authority Returns Now, the LEARN Act, which would allow States to opt out of the costly and burdensome No Child Left Behind law and return the control to the locals where it belongs. I am proud to be one of the 33 cosponsors of this bill. Again, let me go back to the fact that we are here on Constitution Day and remind people, which I think we need to do on a fairly regular basis, of what the Constitution says about the role of the Federal Government in education. 
   Amendment 10 of the Constitution says: ``The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or the people.'' Now, I read the Constitution fairly regularly, and I find no mention of education being a responsibility of the Federal Government. 
   I have established my credentials a little bit, and I will establish somewhat  my historical credentials. I was on the school board of Watauga County not too long after the ESEA bill was passed. This was part of Lyndon Johnson's Great Society. There has been a great deal of debate about that bill since then. Of course, most people have lost sight of the fact that No Child Left Behind was, I believe, the eighth reauthorization of that bill. So No Child Left Behind has its origins in the War on Poverty, good intentions, trying to increase spending at the local school level, help children in poverty to do better. But the record of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act has been very spotty at best. And No Child Left Behind has also been very spotty at best. 
   What we need to do, again, is go back to the basics, in my opinion, where the role of the Federal Government is reduced in education and the role of the local school board, the local teachers, the local parents is increased. We need to make sure that we are not tying the hands of teachers and principals at the local level. That is what we have been doing with No Child Left Behind. We have been trying to mandate from Washington the way to handle education. 
   I find almost no support for this program in my district. I have had forums with teachers, principals, superintendents, and school board members. Many people complain bitterly about No Child Left Behind and the detrimental effect it has had on their system. 
   Now, we found out in talking with them that much of what they are concerned about is not really in No Child Left Behind, but it is in other legislation that the Federal Government has imposed. But, again, what we need to do is unleash the potential that is there for teachers to work with children at the local level. 
   I want to make a few comments, again, about my own experiences with this law and with other iterations of the ESEA Act of 1965 and throw out some things that we know about and have known about for a long time which make this emphasis on Federal funding so frustrating to those of us who pay attention to the research, pay attention to history and know what has been happening. There are thousands, literally thousands, of studies to show that there is absolutely no correlation between how much the government spends on schools and how much students learn.     
   So the more spending we have guarantees nothing in terms of learning. What we do know is that what makes an effective school and what makes good learning are excellent principals and involved parents, and No Child Left Behind actually mitigates against both of those things because of so much emphasis on testing and so much emphasis again on the cookie-cutter approach. 
   Let me say also that no research has ever established that the quality of individual schools is a cause of the gap in test scores among groups of students. What is important is the safety of the neighborhood, income, books in the home, whether there are a mother and a father in the home, how much TV the child watches and what is the level of the mother's education. 
   Education cannot control these factors. We cannot, through our educational systems, make those things different for children. We are going to see gaps in education as long as we see lots of children coming from single-parent homes where the mother doesn't have a good education. We are going to see lots of problems with groups of children when children don't live in safe neighborhoods or when they don't have a lot of books in their homes. 
   We know that schools and school quality contribute little to the emergence of test score gaps among children. Again, government-run schools simply are not going to be able to bridge the gap between what children need to know and what they are currently learning. 
   What we need to be doing, again, is to reduce the role of the Federal Government in the education process and help those teachers who are out there on the line every day dealing with a tremendous range of children in their classrooms, trying to teach the tests so they won't be considered failures. 
   One of the saddest things we have done, I think, with No Child Left Behind is label so many classrooms as failures, so many schools as failures, when people are working very hard doing a lot of good things. We are actually discouraging people from going into teaching and wanting to use their talents and skills on behalf of others. 
   So, I would say that we need very much to go back to local accountability in education, local control in education, and stop letting the 7 percent of the funding that goes into the public schools from the Federal Government be the tail that wags the dog, because so much more of the money is coming in at the local level. Those people know what their schools need, and we need to let the folks there hold their systems accountable. 
   Again, I want to compliment you on the LEARN Act and for bringing this up to folks, presenting the facts, so that people are not being misled by the propaganda that is put out about these things. 
   People would like to control our lives totally from the Federal level, but it is not possible to do. Our framers of the Constitution understood that. They were very wise in it. We need to go back to those principles which gave us fairly good educational systems in the past but are failing us right now in the attempt to control everything from the Federal level. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (EDUCATION -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. I also had the opportunity to review that article tonight from The Weekly Standard and was very struck, particularly by the review of the book by Mr. Lieberman. I hope that at some point you will call attention to that a little bit. I intended to do that in my comments. But I think it would be excellent if we were able to enter particularly the review of his book into the record, because he makes many of those same points that I was making about the educational structure. I think he has done a very good service. So I would hope that you would be able to do that at some point in the effort here tonight. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (FINANCIAL BAILOUT -- (House of Representatives - September 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, it's been a few short days since we first got news of the administration's $700 billion plan to bail out the financial industry. 
   In large part, the root cause of our current crisis is the mismanagement, failure and political cronyism at government-backed lenders, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Some people are hoping to use Americans' tax dollars to bring about a government-backed solution to a problem that was essentially caused by decades of government incompetence. 
   An article in Bloomberg entitled How the Democrats Created the Financial Crisis and the transcript from Fox News tonight shed much light on how Republicans warned of the impending problem and the responsibility of Democrats for the problem. 
   I've heard a lot of talk about bailing out those who made very risky, even reckless decisions. My question is, what about all the American taxpayers who played by the rules? Who's going to bail them out? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CRONY CAPITALISM -- (House of Representatives - September 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, the American people won an important victory today, and we all should celebrate it. The Democrats finally allowed the moratorium on offshore drilling to expire. They did that because of the pressure brought on them by their constituents and by the 135 Republicans who stayed on this floor every day in August while the Democrats were on vacation, and we spoke on the floor every day before that and since then. 
   We called to the attention of the American people every day that the Democrats are in charge of the Congress and it was under their charge that gas prices doubled. 
   So, when someone says to you there's no difference between Democrats and Republicans, you can point to this example of leadership by Republicans and how we brought this to the American people and with this support, changed the position of the Speaker. 
   Now we have another task before us. It is our task to inform the American public about who is responsible for the U.S. mortgage and credit problem that we are grappling with. 
   This is not a failure of the markets. But it is a failure of government. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would like to put in the Record an editorial from investors.com entitled ``Crony Capitalism Is Root Cause of Fannie And Freddie Troubles.'' 
   ``In the past couple of weeks, as the financial crisis has intensified, a new talking point has emerged from the Democrats in Congress: This is all a 'crisis of capitalism,' in socialist financier George Soros' phrase, and a failure to regulate our market sufficiently. 
   ``This is a crisis of politically driven crony capitalism, to be precise. 
   ``Indeed, Democrats have so effectively mastered crony capitalism as a governing strategy that they've convinced many in the media and the public that they had nothing whatsoever to do with our current financial woes. 
   ``Funny, because over the past 8 years, those who tried to fix Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac--the trigger for today's widespread global financial meltdown--were stymied repeatedly by congressional Democrats.''  
   And as my colleagues on both sides of the aisle tonight have pointed out, these problems have been brought on under the leaders who were Democrats when Congress was controlled by the Democrats on several occasions. 
   ``Although some key Republicans deserve blame as well, it was a concentrated Democratic effort that made reform of Fannie and Freddie impossible.'' 
   In fact, earlier tonight on FOX News, to their credit, they showed comments being made by Chairman Frank and Chairman Schumer about why Fannie and Freddie were great and didn't need any reform, and going back to 2001 pointed out how President Bush and members of his Cabinet pointed out we were going to have a crisis because of Fannie and Freddie. As my colleague just previously said, we don't have enough regulations of these markets, but I would say we have the wrong kind of regulations, and more and more is going to come out about that and put it where it deserves. 
   Again, I'm going to quote some more from this article: 
   ``Fannie and Freddie gobbled up the market. Using extraordinary leverage, they eventually controlled 90 percent of the secondary market mortgages. Their total portfolio of loans topped $5.4 trillion--half of all U.S. mortgage lending. This created the problem that we're having today.'' 
   But they also ``became a kind of jobs program for out-of-work Democrats. 
   ``Franklin Raines and Jim Johnson, the CEOs under whom the worst excesses took place in the late 1990s to mid-2000s, were both high-placed Democratic operatives and advisors to Presidential candidate Barack Obama. 
   ``On the surface, this sounds innocent. Someone has to head the highly political Fannie and Freddie, right? But this is why crony capitalism is so dangerous. Those in power at Fannie and Freddie, as the sirens began to wail about some of their more egregious practices, began to bully those who opposed them. 
   ``We now know that many of the Senators who protected Fannie and Freddie, including Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton and CHRISTOPHER DODD, have received mind-boggling levels of financial support from them over the years.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (CRONY CAPITALISM -- (House of Representatives - September 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. 
   ``Crony'' Capitalism Is Root Cause Of Fannie And Freddie Troubles  
   In the past couple of weeks, as the financial crisis has intensified, a new talking point has emerged from the Democrats in Congress: This is all a ``crisis of capitalism,'' in socialist financier George Soros' phrase, and a failure to regulate our markets sufficiently. 
   Well, those critics may be right--it is a crisis of capitalism. A crisis of politically driven crony capitalism, to be precise. 
   Indeed, Democrats have so effectively mastered crony capitalism as a governing strategy that they've convinced many in the media and the public that they had nothing whatsoever to do with our current financial woes. 
   Barack Obama has repeatedly blasted ``Bush-McCain'' economic policies as the cause, as if the two were joined at the hip. 
   Funny, because over the past 8 years, those who tried to fix Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE)--the trigger for today's widespread global financial meltdown--were stymied repeatedly by congressional Democrats. 
   This wasn't an accident. Though some key Republicans deserve blame as well, it was a concerted Democratic effort that made reform of Fannie and Freddie impossible. 
   The reason for this is simple: Fannie and Freddie became massive providers both of reliable votes among grateful low-income homeowners, and of massive giving to the Democratic Party by grateful investment bankers, both at the two government-sponsored enterprises and on Wall Street. 
   The result: A huge taxpayer rescue that at last estimate is approaching $700 billion but may go even higher. 
   It all started, innocently enough, in 1994 with President Clinton's rewrite of the Carter-era Community Reinvestment Act. 
   Ostensibly intended to help deserving minority families afford homes--a noble idea--it instead led to a reckless surge in mortgage lending that has pushed our financial system to the brink of chaos. 
   SUBPRIME'S MENTORS 
   Fannie and Freddie, the main vehicle for Clinton's multicultural housing policy, drove the explosion of the subprime housing market by buying up literally hundreds of billions of dollars in substandard loans--funding loans that ordinarily wouldn't have been made based on such time-honored notions as putting money down, having sufficient income, and maintaining a payment record indicating creditworthiness. 
   With all the old rules out the window, Fannie and Freddie gobbled up the market. Using extraordinary leverage, they eventually controlled 90% of the secondary market mortgages. Their total portfolio of loans topped $5.4 trillion--half of all U.S. mortgage lending. They borrowed $1.5 trillion from U.S. capital markets with--wink, wink--an ``implicit'' government guarantee of the debts. 
   This created the problem we are having today. 
   As we noted a week ago, subprime lending surged from around $35 billion in 1994 to nearly $1 trillion last year--for total growth of 2,757% as of last year. 
   No real market grows that fast for that long without being fixed. 
   And that's just what Fannie and Freddie were--fixed. They became a government-run, privately owned home finance monopoly. 
   Fannie and Freddie became huge contributors to Congress, spending millions to influence votes. As we've noted here before, the bulk of the money went to Democrats. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, the amendment I am offering would restore the funding level for international organizations provided in this bill to the fiscal year 2007 level. 
   The purpose of my amendme nt is twofold. First, it would help bring accountability to organizations that have demonstrated limited effectiveness. Second, this amendment would help control the out-of-control Federal deficit. 
   This keeps the funding level at last year's level, which was very reasonable. In fiscal year 2006, total interest payments on Treasury debt securities amounted to $405.9 billion, or about 14 percent of Federal outlays. That amounts to 1.7 percent of the U.S. GDP. Translated, that means 1.7 cents of every doll ar produced by Americans is used to pay interest on the Federal debt.  
   As a percentage of GDP, the Federal debt ratio is larger for the United States than it is in Finland, Ireland, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. By any measure, it should be clear to any responsible fiscal steward that Congress needs to do more to control deficit spending to help reduce the Federal debt. 
   My amendment would take a small but much-needed step in that direction. With a little help from the majority par ty in Congress, we could reduce unnecessary spending and return more money to the American people who earned it in the first place. 
   Second, I wonder what our constituents would think if they knew they were being forced to pay millions for perpetual, never-ending funding increases for organizations such as the International Bureau for Weights and Measures, the International Coffee Association, the International Copper Study Group, the International Hydrographic Organization, the International Lead and Zi nc Study Group, the International Rubber Study Group, and the World Organization for Animal Health. 
   Given the tremendous amount of funding contained in the bill for the United Nations, I am particularly interested in encouraging that body to reexamine its spending habits so it can be more effective at fulfilling its mission. 
   As most would agree, the purpose of the United Nations is to help promote peace and security throughout the world. However, it has obviously failed miserably in that respect. Iran's nuclear weapons program is still chugging along at a rapid pace, threatening Israel and the entire region. Genocide persists in Sudan. All of the minds at the United Nations can't even agree on a definition for the word ``terrorism'' in an age where terrorism remains one of the biggest threats to humanity and civil ization. 
   Furthermore, despite the implicit purpose of the United Nations Human Rights Council to promote global human rights, this body has among its membership notorious human rights abusers such as Angola, China, Cuba, Egypt, Russia and Saudi Arabia. Iran serves as the Vice Chair of the U.N. Disarmament Commission, Syria is the Rapporteur of the U.N. Disarmament Commission, Zimbabwe is the Chair of the U.N. Commission on Sustainable Development, and Sudan serves on the Executive Committee of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. 
   And if that wasn't enough, an examination of a ranked list of countries subject to the most U.N. condemnation for human rights violations in 2006 reveals Israel ranking first, having received 135 actions, nearly twice as many as Sudan, the next country listed, and more than the number of actions directed at Iran, China, Colombia, Cuba, Saudi Arabia and Syria combined. The United States ranks fourth on this list, having been subject to 38 actions. This indicates that the U nited Nations is more interested in condemning Israel and the United States than it is in horrendous human rights abusers throughout the world. 
   With that being said, the part of my amendment that should draw support from both sides of the aisle is the fact that my amendment doesn't cut a dollar from U.S. spending on international organizations. My amendment simply maintains the fiscal year 2007 level. By holding the line on spending, Congress can have another year to work on balancing the books and find ing other ways to fund the increased spending proposals contained in the underlying bill. 
   Mr. Chairman, at a time when Americans are being asked to do more with their budgets, it is only reasonable to expect the same out of those who benefit from generous American donations. That is why it should be clear to all of my colleagues why they should support my amendment. 
   Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate what my colleague has said. But these organizations do nothing to help the security of the United States. The U.N. is an ineffective and corrupt organization and our continuing to provide much of its funding im plicitly endorses that corruption and ineffectiveness. If we put this to a vote of the American people, they would say, fund nothing of the United Nations. Keeping this at level funding is the right thing to do. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The gentlewoman from New York has 30 seconds remaining. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
   Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of the Smith-Stupak amendment that guards against policies that would lead to taxpayer funding of abortions abroad. This amendment would ensure that the Mexico City Policy is included in this spending bill. 
   The Mexico City Policy, first enacted by President Reagan in 1984 and reinstated in 2001, ensures that organizations that do international population assistance work and that promote abortion as a method of family planning do not receive United States funding. 
   This is a critical policy that underscores the sanctity of human life by telling groups that if they want to promote abortion, they better find a source of funding other than the U.S. taxpayer. It is quite simple: If a group demonstrates a disregard for human life, they don't get funding. 
   Let me be clear, the Mexico City policy and this funding do not reduce  funding for family planning programs. The focus instead is on channeling funds to organizations that agree not to promote abortion. There is, therefore, no overall reduction of family planning funds. Again, the guidelines are simple. If you promote abortion, the U.S. Government will not be giving you money. 
   Under the current language in the State-Foreign Operations appropriation bill, funding would once again flow to groups that promote abortion. The Smith-Stupak amendment would eliminate language that allows funding to go to even the most aggressively pro-abortion groups. 
   This amendment is about our Nation's abortion policy. As such, it is entirely focused on ensuring our government does not fund groups that promote abortion. I support this amendment because it wisely guards against any erosion of our protection of the sanctity of human life. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. FOXX. (TWEETSIE RAILROAD 50TH ANNIVERSARY--JUNE 21, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to celebrate the 50th anniversary of Tweetsie Railroad, a western N orth Carolina fixture that has been providing fun and excitement to families for the past five decades. 
   Tweetsie Railroad, founded in 1957, was North Carolina's first-ever amusement park. Nestled in the mountains of Blowing Rock, North Carolina, it is home to the classic steam locomotive Tweetsie 12. 
   Tweetsie's historic lineage runs deep. This steam engine is the last remaining locomotive that ran a rail line connecting Boone, North Carolina, to Johnson City, Tennessee, through the rugged Appalachia ns. 
   The Wild West theme of the park permeates every aspect of the family entertainment that draws families from all over. Tweetsie Railroad is in a category of its own, situated in a beautiful mountain setting. 
   Away from the noise and rush of everyday life, this North Carolina fixture offers an escape from the worries of today with a glimpse of a bygone era. This retreat of family entertainment is part of a great American tradition, and I wish it many more years of delighting families with wholesome fun. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
