<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. TAYLOR of Mississippi. (ESTIMATED TAX PAYMENT SAFE HARBOR ADJUSTMENT -- (House of Representatives - April 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. TAYLOR of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, I won't need 3 minutes. I just want to applaud the conversion of my Republican colleagues. 
   Six years ago the Nation was breaking even on an annual basis. They came to town with a new President and in the span of 3 years added $3 trillion to the national debt, never once explaining any remorse, never once saying, we're going to turn this around. 
   So I am really pleased to see the conversion, and I want to applaud you for it. I just wish it had happened 6 years ago. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. TAYLOR of Mississippi. (SOLVING THE INSURANCE CRISIS FACED BY KATRINA VICTIMS -- (House of Representatives - January 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. TAYLOR of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the people of South Mississippi, I want to thank my fellow Americans for the incredible generosity they have shown the people of south Mississippi in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. Literally within hours of that storm, fellow Americans who were National Guardsmen, who were Coast Guardsmen, in the Armed Forces, the Army, the Navy, the Air Force and Marines. They were there helping the people of south Mississippi recover. 
   Since that time, the people of America dug into their pockets as taxpayers. They dug into their pockets as individuals. They sent Christmas presents, and they donated their time. From school kids to senior citizens, they all came to south Mississippi to help. 
   It seems like for a while everyone was trying to help south Mississippi, and then the harsh reality was that not everyone really was going to help; that there was actually an element in corporate America that thought they could use this storm as a way to make a lot of money. I am referring to the property and casualty business that insured many of the people in south Mississippi. 
   Mr. Speaker, almost as soon as the roads were cleared of trees and power lines and dead animals and all the things, we found, unfortunately, in the wake of Katrina, representatives of property and casualty companies were showing up on people's lots, what was left of their homes, and telling them that they had found a reason in the fine print of their policies not to pay. 
   Even before I made my way back to Congress, and it took about 2 weeks after the storm for me to get here, they were already working the lobbies, buying steak dinners, buying lobster dinners, buying champagne and telling my colleagues, well, you are going to hear from those people in Mississippi; and, you know, yeah, we denied them, but they are not very smart. They didn't have enough insurance. They built their houses too close to the ground, and they flood all the time, and that is why we had to tell them no. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, we need to change that. But before I tell you why we need to change it, before I need to tell you what we need to do, I want to give you a couple of examples. 
   Remember they said they are not very smart? This was the home of John and Molly Hadden. John has a Master's in business from Tulane University. They said their home was too close to the ground. As you can see, it was about 11 feet off the ground, or 22 feet above sea level. They said they were underinsured. If you had gone down Beach Boulevard in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, a week before Katrina, this is what you would have seen. A beautiful home, less than 10 years old, and built to all the current standards. If you would have gone down that same road, when you could go down that road, a couple weeks after the storm, this is what you would have seen. 
   John Hadden, being an MBA, a pretty good businessman, knew that to replace this, should something bad happen, would cost a lot of money. He had a $650,000 insurance policy, to which the folks from State Farm, 16 months later, have given him nothing. 
   If you had gone a little farther down that street before the storm you would have seen approximately a 130-year-old house owned by Joe and Betty Benvenutti. Joe is himself in the insurance business. This house had been there and survived no telling how many hurricanes, five in my lifetime, and many more prior to that. Joe, being in the insurance industry, knew the importance of being properly covered. So for this beautiful classic historic home, Joe and Betty had $586,000 worth of insurance. Yet 16 months later, their carrier, State Farm Insurance Company, has paid them nothing, and this is what they found after the storm, by the way: a couple of their kids' trophies, a couple of bricks, maybe a toy or two laying around where the foundation used to be. 
   Next door to the Benvenuttis we have Mike and Eileen Chapoton. Mike is the head of the trust department of the Whitney Bank, a very, very large regional bank, a job of incredible responsibility. Again, a good businessman who thought he had done all the things you are supposed to do with all the people you are supposed to do it with to protect his home in case something bad should happen. Mike purchased $236,000 worth of insurance through State Farm, and 16 months after the storm, he has been paid nothing.  
   Mr. Speaker, what State Farm says is, well, you weren't there when it happened, so we don't know how it happened. So unless you can prove to me that it wasn't a flood, we are not going to give you a dime. 
   Now, this leads to a couple of things. Why should a person have to stay in their home during a hurricane to get some fairness. I thought we put satellites in the sky. I thought we put buoys at sea, I thought we had the hurricane hunters fly planes into hurricanes to give us the warning to get the heck out of there. To encourage people to stay behind is only to encourage people to die. And yet the only people in south Mississippi who really got fairness from the insurance companies were the ones who stayed behind and miraculously lived, because they were an eye witness. 
   So we need all-perils insurance throughout our country. 
   The second thing. The insurance industry that told the Chapotons and the Haddens and the Benvenuttis now have the privilege of calling each other up; State Farm could call Nationwide, and say, you know what, I am not going to pay; don't you pay. And it is perfectly legal because they are exempt from the antitrust laws. That needs to change. 
   Lastly, because there is zero Federal regulation of the insurance industry, at this time there is absolutely nothing that I or any other Member of Congress can do about this. It is my hope that in the coming weeks we will fix all three of those problems. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
