<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 5501. 
   During this time of economic difficulty, this bill is humanitarianism gone wild. It's irrational benevolence that we cannot afford. 
   Where are we going to get the $48 billion for combating AIDS and the $2 billion for Native American programs? Well, we can get it out of programs by gutting programs that are for our own people. We can raise taxes, which would likely throw us into a recession that would leave us with even less of a tax base for our people at home, or of course, we can borrow it and let our grandchildren pay for it in some way. And yes, if we borrow it, it will probably come from Communist China, making ourselves even more vulnerable to their pressure. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have big hearts, but we need to use our brains. We cannot afford $50 billion of generosity to foreigners. This will cost the American people. It will cost them their health care and the education for their children. It will cost the veterans, and it will cost our seniors. 
   Our economy is facing a catastrophic setback because of the irresponsible spending and taxing policies of the Federal Government, and now we're going to exacerbate that problem with a $50 billion commitment to provide a health care package to Africa. 
   Concerning my friends on my side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, I say to those who oppose earmarks in the name of fiscal responsibility, they should not be expected to be taken seriously if they support this enormously expensive, feel-good spending. This $50 billion burden will be shouldered by our veterans, by our elderly, and by our children. 
   My friends on the other side of the aisle often remind us America does not spend enough on our own people. More funds are needed, we are repeatedly told, for our veterans, our elderly, and yes, for our children. When we are already at a high level of deficit spending, how then can we advocate spending an additional $50 billion overseas? 
   And we're not fooling anybody. When we have spending like this, it comes right out of the pot of limited resources that are available to Americans. 
   This expenditure is not going to cure AIDS in the end. I wish I could say that I was very confident that it would succeed in that, but I'm not confident with that. What I am confident is that it will break our back. This could well be the 2-ton tree trunk that broke the camel's back, the item that finally destroyed the hope for responsible spending policies by Congress. 
   I ask my colleagues to vote against this kind of generosity that is perhaps good-hearted but totally irrational. I say our number one job here is to watch out for the well-being of the American people. This bill is not in the well-being of our people. It will undermine the well-being of our people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (EXPRESSING SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE IMMEDIATE AND UNCONDITIONAL RELEASE OF DAW AUNG SAN SUU KYI -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Speaker, I would like to thank Speaker of the House Pelosi. Over the years we have worked, along with Chairman Lantos, on many human rights issues, and it has always been the people of Burma that were the most inspiring of those people that we sought to stand with over the years in these human rights causes that have unified us and Congressman Smith and so many others in this body. 
   Chairman Lantos again, of course, has provided such leadership. His life, of course, is exemplary of a person who holds such values as human rights and democracy and that we hold dear and affirm today. 
   Today, the Congress of the United States speaks with one voice. The people of Burma, we are on your side. Be courageous. You are not alone. 
   To the gangsters in uniform who have held the people of Burma in bondage for decades, you will be held accountable. Now is the time to join with the people of Burma. If, instead of joining them and trying to build a new Burma, that you bloody your hands even more, you will be held accountable. Your bank accounts will be frozen and you will be arrested for crimes against humanity if you leave your country. 
   And I can promise that those of us who hold dear human rights in this Congress will not rest until those actions are taken against you as individuals if you are committing these crimes against the people of Burma. 
   We call on those in the Burmese military, who take orders from the gangster regime that runs that country, we call on them to change sides. Now is the time for the Burmese military to join the people of Burma in creating a democratic and free society. 
   The military clique that gives orders to the military of Burma has no lawful authority. They are criminals. They are the criminals who have made deals with the government in China to steal Burma's natural resources and to impoverish the people of Burma in the process. 
   Let us not overlook the role of China in this crime. China has provided the military junta in Burma with over a billion and a half dollars of military aid over the last few years. It is the government of China that has enabled this monstrous dictatorship to hold 50 million people in bondage. It is China which has blocked the actions of the United Nations to stop the junta slaughter of Burmese monks and other peaceful demonstrators who, right as  we speak, are losing their lives in the cause of human freedom. 
   I ask my colleagues to support my efforts and others' efforts who have come here. We have several people who have already cosponsored a resolution to hold China accountable for what they are doing in Burma. This is only a taste of what we're going to experience around the world as China becomes a monstrous power in this planet. We have built up their economy. We have not only permitted them to become a powerful force in the world; we have subsidized the growth of power of this Chinese monster that now not only supports Burma, but is involved with the genocide in Darfur. 
   The United States should not be participating in an Olympics that is being hosted by a regime that commits genocide in Darfur and Burma. 
   Finally, let us today remember Aung San Suu Kyi. She represents not just the people of Burma, but she is the one who represents the higher aspirations and the higher ideals of humanity. She has suffered for many long decades peacefully in her home. Now, she has been taken from house arrest and sent to a prison. We do not know what fate she is suffering. We know that she is in the hands of murderers. We know she is in the hands of people who torture and would slaughter peaceful monks in the streets. So our hearts go out to her, and we keep her in our prayers, but we also suggest that if anything happens to Aung San Suu Kyi, the rise of anger will be heard not only from Washington but from around the world, for every decent and freedom-loving person will rise up. So those criminals who now slaughter the monks on the streets of Rangoon should understand that we are watching and the whole world is watching, and we speak with one voice. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. First and foremost, I would like to congratulate my colleagues for the hard work that's been put into this legislation, Mark Udall and Bart Gordon, of course, on the majority side, and also, of course, Tom Feeney and Ralph Hall on the minority side of this. This is a bipartisan effort. It always has been. 
   Ralph Hall will be submitting my amendment for me, which will be the second amendment up today. Let me just note that my amendment simply suggests that NASA should put on its priority list seeking cooperation between the United States and our European and Russian friends to try to have an international effort to detect and deflect near-Earth objects. What that means is, if there are asteroids or comets that might be out there and might threaten the Earth, perhaps threatening millions of lives, that my amendment simply says the United States should not bear the entire burden and cost of identifying them and tracing their trajectory to see if they threaten the Earth, but we should be trying to recruit our friends and make it an international effort. 
   I just recently came back from Berlin and Moscow, where this idea received a very, very warm response from these other spacefaring nations, and they're really anxious to work with us. This instructs NASA to take advantage of that spirit of cooperation, take the burden off the American taxpayers a little bit, and make sure this job gets done. 
   I appreciate that Chairman Gordon and Ranking Member Hall have both supported this legislation. And Ralph will be submitting it for me in a few minutes. 
   Thank you very much, Bart. Thank you very much, Ralph. And I want to thank all of you and the staff for doing such a great job in this committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Chairman, my amendment offered by Mr. Feeney encourages NASA to seek increased international cooperation to find and characterize all natural bodies in outer space over 140 meters in size that pass close to the Earth, referred to as near-Earth objects. Estimates of the total numbers of such objects vary from 25,000 to 100,000. This threat to the Earth is a worldwide matter of potentially catastrophic proportions should a collision with Earth occur, and the responsibility of dealing with it should not fall entirely on the United States or NASA, in particular. 
   The motivation and timing for this amendment arises from discussions with Russian and German government officials on furthering cooperation with the U.S. in science and technology that occurred during a CODEL that I attended over the Memorial Day recess. 
   The specific suggestion to cooperate in the effort to find and characterize near-Earth objects was greeted with great enthusiasm by the government officials with whom I met during the CODEL. 
   The initiative encouraged under my amendment is intended to provide relief for the enormous burden being placed on NASA to find and characterize the vast number of these objects estimated to exist. Many countries around the world have very capable astronomical observatories that can assist (and probably have to some extent). 
   In addition to telescopes, deep space radars play a critical role in quickly authenticating any impending threats that may be indicated from optical observations. Though the United States has the world's most capable deep space radar, namely the Arecibo Radar, and also the somewhat less capable Goldstone Radar, the Russian RT-70 Radar may be able to provide some contributions as well. Furthermore, certain large radio astronomy facilities around the world may be able to participate by pairing with these powerful U.S. deep space radars. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (CONFLICT IN BURMA -- (House of Representatives - September 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, tomorrow the Foreign Affairs Committee will mark up legislation dealing with the tumultuous events now taking place in Burma. I am an original cosponsor, and I would ask my colleagues to support the bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, we may be witnessing an historic event taking place in Burma. Religious leaders are bravely confronting a violent, brutal military dictatorship. The people of Burma are telling the generals who have oppressed them and looted their country for decades to peacefully step aside and let a democratically elected government rule the nation. 
   Nobel Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi and her National League for Democracy overwhelmingly won elections back in 1990, but corrupt and brutal generals betrayed their people. They ignored the election results. 
   The SLORC, which is what the Burmese military regime called itself, then commenced to murder, torture and imprison anyone who would oppose their tyranny. Further, they have plundered Burma's vast natural resources, with the help of their Chinese masters and other foreign looters. 
   Now, at long last, the people of Burma have a chance. This is their moment. I urge all Burmese soldiers: do not kill your own people to further the greed and corruption of those who have sold out your country to the Chinese.  You are not a vassal state of Beijing. It is your country. Those demonstrating for democracy are your brothers and sisters and your family. Do not turn your weapons on them. 
   I warn the Burmese military officers: if you slaughter the monks and those calling for democracy, when your regime falls, and it will fall, you will be pursued to every corner of the globe and hunted down like the Nazi criminals before you. 
   The bamboo ramparts of tyranny are coming down. The American people and free people everywhere are with the brave souls in Burma who are seeking to free themselves from the gangsters who oppress them and steal their wealth. 
   To the people of Burma: you are not alone. Your cause is our cause. Have courage. We are with you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (ADMINISTRATION'S DISREGARD FOR CONGRESSIONAL AUTHORITY -- (House of Representatives - March 04, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, tonight I will discuss some serious examples of how this administration's contemptuous disregard for the authority delegated to Congress by the Constitution has impacted on how we do business here in Washington. This bad attitude has consistently manifested itself in a sophomoric resentment of Congress' constitutional role as an equal branch of government. 
   Ironically, Congress has proven itself far more willing to cooperate than what Ronald Reagan found during the Cold War. The executive branch, however, seems too insecure to let Congress do its job, as the executive branch sees Congress basically, even with a Republican-controlled majority, as a rival. And they see us as a spoiler rather than as elected representatives of the American people playing a rightful role in establishing policy for our great country. So, unfortunately, we see that in this President of the United States. 
   But let me add that I have worked in the White House before. I worked in the White House at a time when Democrats controlled both Houses of Congress. And I have witnessed times when Congress itself, yes, has sought to undermine foreign policy initiatives of Presidents who are watching out for America's national security interests in a tumultuous time. That is not what I'm referring to and will be referring to tonight. But I mention this only to note that, yes, while I am condemning our President tonight, I recognize that in the past, many liberal left Democrats have been obstructionist in their relationship with the White House as today that I see the White House is being obstructionist to Congress. 
   Many congressional Democrats, especially those on the far liberal left of the party, fought President Reagan every step of the way as he maneuvered to thwart Soviet expansionism during the waning days of the Cold War. Whether it was building a missile defense system, which now, I might add, protects us from rogue states such as Iran, Korea and China, or whether it was supporting resistance movements against Soviet puppet regimes in Afghanistan and Nicaragua, many congressional Democrats not only voted against the policy, which of course is their prerogative, but went far beyond that in an attempt to actually undercut and undermine the implementation of President Reagan's Cold War strategy. Liberal left Democrats in the U.S. Congress, for example, visited Nicaragua to encourage that Soviet ally regime to hold firm against Ronald Reagan's pressure to democratize. 
   Even as the Soviets poured billions of dollars of military equipment into Nicaragua, Congress, at a very crucial moment, restricted aid to the resistance fighters who were struggling to pressure the Sandanistas, to what? To have democratic elections. 
   In order to save Central America from a hostile takeover, Reagan had to overcome Soviet support for these rogue regimes, like the Sandinistas and different insurgencies that were supported by Cuba and the Soviet puppets in Central America, but the President also had to overcome congressional undermining of this stand that he had taken. 
   In the end, of course, Congress, after 1 year of eliminating all aid to the freedom fighters, or he would say the ``democratic resistance'' in Nicaragua, after 1 year, which drew, threw the entire Reagan strategy into a chaotic  state, Congress restored U.S. financial aid to the Nicaraguan resistance. All of this was in keeping with the fact that the liberal left of the Democratic Party at that time was trying their best not to cooperate with Ronald Reagan but to undermine what he was trying to do. 
   Finally, after Congress, by the way, restored money to the democratic resistance, the Sandanistas agreed and relented to a democratic election. And when it was held, the Sandanistas were trounced at the polls and thrown out of power for about 10 or 15 years, which of course must have surprised the liberal left Members of the U.S. Congress who had repeatedly dumped their vitriol on President Reagan as if he was supporting a terrorist group that was trying to implement a policy in Nicaragua that would lead not to democracy but to control of their government. 
   Well, don't let anyone tell you that bipartisanship won the Cold War. It did not. And from my point of view, and I saw it very firsthand, there was a lack of cooperation, an unwillingness to cooperate on the part of many liberal left Members of this body during the Cold War. And that's history. That's a long time ago. And it was not a shining moment for many congressional Democrats. And it is certainly not a great example, as many people say, of cooperation and bipartisanship during the Cold War. 
   Reagan's personal influence, however, enabled Congress and the executive branch to function even though there was a certain number of people here who were intent on obstructionism. Reagan respected disagreement, even if it was done in such a disruptive way. He respected the separation and the balance of powers at the heart of our Federal Government's structure and consulted often with Congress and had very significant changes of views with Members of Congress, even those liberal leftists who were trying to obstruct his policy. That same spirit from the top is, unfortunately, not evident in this administration. 
   The Cold War is history, yes, but currently, radical Islam has declared war on us. It is a threat that should strengthen our willingness to pull together and cooperate. Yet, the disdain and uncooperative nature of this administration towards Congress, including Republican Members, is so egregious that I can no longer assume that it is simply bureaucratic incompetence or some isolated mistake; rather, I have come to the sad conclusion that this administration is intentionally obstructing Congress' rightful and constitutional duties. 
   Tonight I will discuss some serious examples of this administration's contemptuous disregard for authority that was delegated to Congress by the Constitution. This bad attitude has consistently manifested itself in a sophomoric resentment toward Congress' constitutional role as an equal branch of government. 
   Ironically, Congress has proven itself far more willing to cooperate than what Ronald Reagan found in the Cold War. The executive branch, however, seems too insecure to let Congress do its job, and it is an executive branch that sees Congress, even when the Republicans held the majority, as a rival and a spoiler rather than as elected representatives of the American people, people who are playing a rightful role in establishing a policy for our great country. 
   Unfortunately, when the President of the United States rejects the legitimacy of congressional prerogatives, there are serious consequences. Tonight I will provide examples of how this administration, for the past 7 years, has undercut congressional investigations, had lied to Members of Congress, and has forged ahead with secret deals in spite of efforts and pleas by Congress to be informed, if not involved. 
   In the last Congress, I was chairman of the Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. In that capacity, I learned that in the time immediately leading up to the bombing of the Federal building in Oklahoma City, convicted Oklahoma City bomber and murderer Terry Nichols had been in Cebu City in the Philippines. His stay in Cebu City coincided with another visitor, al Qaeda's terrorist leader Ramsey Yousef. Well, interestingly, both Nichols and Yousef used similar bombs and methods just 2 years apart to blow up two American targets. Yousef was the mastermind of the first attack on the World Trade Center in 1993. Fifteen years ago, 1993, the World Trade Center blew up. That was Ramsey Yousef who organized that attack.     
   Two years later Terry Nichols was a co-conspirator in the bombing of the Oklahoma City Federal Building. These two individuals, one an American, one an Arab, were responsible for planning two of the most lethal terrorist attacks in our country's history. We are to believe, however, that by coincidence they both ended up in an off-the-beaten-track city in the southern Philippines. Well, one doesn't have to be a conspiracy nut to understand that this coincidence is worth looking into. 
   The perfunctory investigation into this matter was not comprehensive. And, yes, there was a small investigation into this, but it left many questions unanswered. So I started a congressional inquiry to look at that investigation and to look into the issue myself. This inquiry was sanctioned by Henry Hyde, chairman of the International Relations Committee, and its purpose was to see whether Terry Nichols or his accomplice Timothy McVeigh had foreign help with their murderous bombing attack on the Alfred Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City in 1995. Again, in light of the fact that Terry Nichols and Ramzi Yousef were both in Cebu City, some off-the-beaten-track city in the Philippines, and they were there at the same time and they had both committed hauntingly similar terrorist attacks, it was no stretch for a congressional investigative committee to look into the matter. 
   However, the Bush administration felt quite differently. To those I had to deal with, it was case closed, don't bother us, the matter has been looked into, and Congress should simply and blindly accept the conclusions that there was no Nichols-Ramzi Yousef connection. ``Don't bother us'' was the attitude I confronted. This at times was bureaucratic laziness. At other times it was clearly based on a disdain for congressional investigations and authority. 
   During my investigation, I secured Ramzi Yousef's cell phone records. The cell phone calls he made were documented. These were calls that he made in New York City, in that area, just months before he bombed the World Trade Center. The phone records clearly show that Yousef had made at least two phone calls to a row house in Queens, New York, basically at a time leading up to the bombing. Significant to my inquiry, that row house that Yousef, the bomber of the World Trade Center, was calling was occupied by the cousin of Terry Nichols' Filipino wife. Let me repeat that: the terrorist bomber of the first World Trade Center attack, the nephew of al Qaeda's 9/11 mastermind, Khalid Sheik Mohammed, made phone calls to the same row house that was occupied by Terry Nichols' cousin-in-law just 2 months before Ramzi Yousef exploded his bomb in the garage of the World Trade Center. What another coincidence. Just another coincidence. 
   I gave this information to the Department of Justice that had never been thoroughly investigated, and since that time I have repeatedly sought their help to investigate this matter. Time after time my requests have gone unanswered or flatly denied. 
   I also asked the Department of Justice on numerous occasions to help me investigate the name Samir Khalil. Now, this name is on the list, Samir Khalil, of unindicted co-conspirators in the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center. I found that name. That name was there. A lot of people had overlooked that name. Why is it important? Because that is also the name of an Iraqi man in Oklahoma City who, at the time of the Oklahoma City bombing, employed an immigrant who was ID'd by many witnesses as a possible accomplice to the bombing. He was a look-alike. He may have been the person. He may have been John Doe II. He looked like what everybody described as John Doe II. That man's employer was Samir Khalil, and that same name happens to be on a list of unindicted co-conspirators for the World Trade Center bombing.  
   Well, let's look at this for a moment. Numerous witnesses at the scene of the Oklahoma City bombing and the truck rental company that provided the truck for the bombing described an accomplice they say had accompanied bomber Tim McVeigh. An FBI sketch was made, and this unknown suspect was labeled ``John Doe II.'' You remember John Doe II. John Doe I was, of course, Timothy McVeigh. These witnesses described a man who, as I say, looked very much like this employee of another Arab immigrant, Samir Khalil. 
   I have repeatedly asked the Department of Justice to tell me if the Samir Khalil on the unindicted co-conspirators list of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing is the same Samir Khalil who employed this man who was originally identified as John Doe II by a number of witnesses. The Justice Department's answer: it would be far too burdensome for us to try to find out if this is the same man. 
   Further, we asked for help in finding the Arab immigrant, the John Doe II look-alike, who was employed by Samir Khalil. The guy who may well have been in the bombing of the Oklahoma City bombing. We traced this man to Boston, but we had no support and no cooperation in finding this very possible terrorist or at least a terrorist suspect. 
   By the way, we now know that this same man who worked for Samir Khalil, the same guy who looked like John Doe II, once he went to Boston, and this has not been proven yet but it is possible and it may well be true that he was working at Boston's Logan Airport on 9/11 of 2001, the day that a plane took off from that airport and was hijacked and then crashed into the World Trade Center. I guess another weird coincidence to the Oklahoma City bombing. 
   If we don't want conspiracy theories to run wild, these types of things should be investigated. Instead, no follow-throughs, no interest, case is closed, don't bother us. 
   Both Samir Khalil and his Iraqi employee now reside at this moment in the United States. And now let's not forget that there were eye-witnesses who described an accomplice at Tim McVeigh's side at the time of the bombing and when he rented the truck that carried the bomb to the Federal building there in Oklahoma City. These are witnesses who saw somebody, and the FBI after a 
   very short time simply declared John Doe II to be nonexistent. He never existed, and thus that means that no more investigation would be necessary even if a congressional investigator comes up with names that seem to match the Oklahoma City bombing and a list of unindicted co-conspirators for the first World Trade Center attack. No, that is not worthy of investigating even then because that would be too burdensome. 
   Well, if it is true, of course, and it's not being investigated, that means there are two terrorists. If this happens to be true, and we don't know it's not true because the Justice Department refuses to investigate and to help in our investigation, that means there are two terrorists out there who may still be active and, in fact, may have been active later on in other terrorist actions. 
   That is just a small taste of the deplorable lack of cooperation for a legitimate congressional investigation. And this, by and large, was a time when Republicans controlled the House. And it was no fluke, this lack of cooperation. I didn't happen to snag an uncooperative Federal employee. No, this was the level of noncooperation Congress now has learned to expect. 
   And, yes, let me acknowledge that Departments and agencies have limited resources. So maybe they have other uses, better uses, for their time of their investigators. I understand that. I can hear that. I can listen with a sympathetic ear. They probably want to use the time of their investigators to follow up on their own leads and their own cases rather than following up on leads provided by Members of Congress. 
   Well, I could buy that excuse except for the fact that there has been a total lack of cooperation that goes way beyond just not using their resources, committing scarce resources. Even when it costs no time and no resources, the administration has stonewalled my every effort to look into these so-called ``coincidences.'' 
   For the past year, for example, I have repeatedly requested an interview with imprisoned terrorist Ramzi Yousef. This would have taken no time. It would have required no new resources to be committed from the executive branch, or it wouldn't use the time of any Federal employee. This request was well within my committee jurisdiction and didn't cost the executive branch any time or effort or money. And as ranking member of an investigative subcommittee on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I certainly had the right and, yes, my committee has the jurisdiction to make such inquiries and to look into such issues. 
   This request that I made just to interview Ramzi Yousef, who is in prison, this request has been supported by the chairman of the investigative subcommittee on which I serve, that is, the chairman of the investigative subcommittee of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr. Delahunt; the chairman of the Judiciary Committee; the chairman of the Intelligence Committee. All of them are backing this request. This is a bipartisan request that DANA ROHRABACHER, who has been looking into this issue, who has an official investigation, who is part of an official investigative subcommittee, is being denied a simple request to interview a Federal prisoner. 
   Such attention by Congress should be welcomed by the administration. The legislative branch should be able to help bring new information to light. We can actually, if we look into these things, lay to rest some conspiracy theories that have no validity. We can help inform the public. 
   Nevertheless, the Department of Justice, consistent with its treatment of congressional inquiries mainly during the tenure of this President, has dismissed our request, this valid request. It has treated the request with what I can only describe as contempt and condescension. The point is, unfortunately, that this rejectionist attitude is typical of this administration, not just for Democrats but for Republicans alike. 
   So why should this administration obstruct congressional inquiries such as this? Remember, Ramzi Yousef was the mastermind of several devastating terrorist plots against America. He led the first murderous attacks on the World Trade Center in 1993. And after fleeing to the Philippines after that explosion, he and two other terrorists plotted to kill thousands of Americans by blowing up 12 commercial airliners over the Pacific. This was known as the Bojinka Plot. It was within 2 weeks of being executed when it was discovered and thwarted by the Philippine police. 
   Now, interestingly, the terrorist operation that we're talking about, the Bojinka Plot, the blowing up of these airliners, was to take place about the same time as the Oklahoma City Federal Building was to be bombed. Perhaps it was to be happening on the same day, but we don't know, of course, because we're stonewalled and blocked from looking into this. Perhaps we should know if the Bojinka Plot was originally scheduled to happen on the same day that the Federal building was blown up in Oklahoma City. 
   In fact, when Philippine police arrested Ramzi Yousef's right-hand man at the makeshift bomb factory in the Philippines, Yousef fled the Philippines immediately, left the country. But he wasn't the only one to flee the country once that bomb-making factory had been captured by the Philippine police. The very next morning after it was learned that that bomb factory had been broken into and people had been arrested there by the Philippine police, Terry Nichols, who was down in Cebu City in the southern Philippines, cut short his scheduled visit to the Philippines and took the first available flight out of the country. This after just a day or two after he had extended his passport with the explanation that he wanted to stay a few more weeks in the Philippines.     
   Yousef has been a Federal prisoner for over a decade. He is a prisoner with a unique understanding of al Qaeda terrorist structure. He is the nephew of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the mastermind of 9/11. 
   In 2006, when I was chairman of the Oversight Investigation Subcommittee,  2006, I was investigating Yousef's moments and activities not only in the United States, but also in the Philippines. I even traveled to the Philippines to question the authorities who had captured Yousef's roommate and coconspirator in the Bojinka plot. In spite of the fact I was looking into Yousef's terrorist activities, and in spite of the fact that I had obtained new information about Yousef's phone calls and some of the people he was associating with while he was in the United States prior to the bombing of the World Trade Center, the first bombing, the Department of Justice still dismissed this effort, just dismisses it. More than that, they are obstructing a legitimate congressional investigation by refusing to permit this elected Member of Congress, who is a ranking member of a congressional investigative committee, to interview a Federal prisoner. They refuse access to Yousef, claiming there is an ``ongoing investigation''. I have been told by people in the Justice Department, people who had worked for the Justice Department in high levels, that this is nothing more than a vehicle, without any justification, for turning down any requests made by a Member of Congress. 
   The arrogance of this ongoing investigation answer has to be understood. As I say, I was told by a high level Justice Department official that this was just the standard tactic to dismiss a Member of Congress, even though there was no validity and there was no even looking into whether or not there really was an investigation. It was without substance; a phrase that is used simply to turn down Members of Congress and to shut the door on inquiry. 
   Let me note, an ongoing investigation. They expect us to believe that? This prisoner has been in jail for over ten years. More likely what we have here is an ongoing coverup. Not an ongoing investigation, an ongoing coverup. It is outrageous and, unfortunately, it is not atypical of this administration. 
   By accepting this behavior, or perhaps, more accurately, acquiescing to it, we Republicans are permitting this administration to set a terrible precedent. Doesn't Congress have the right to talk to Federal prisoners? Is that the rules of engagement that we want to lay down and accept for our government? That is apparently what the Bush administration is trying to establish as the executive branch's rightful authority to deny congressional investigators access to Federal prisoners. 
   What happens when a Democrat President engages in such stonewalling and obstructionism of congressional oversight? My fellow Republicans need to take this very seriously. This is an issue that goes way beyond Republicans and Democrats. This is a matter of the legitimate congressional oversight authority and whether or not we are going to permit this administration to basically undermine an important element of our right of oversight, and that is to go to Federal prisoners and to interview them ourselves to try to find information about what is going on in the Federal Government. 
   Again, the attitude in its treatment of a legitimate request by a congressional oversight committee is not an aberration. It is not nonrepresentative of the way this administration has exercised its authority. It is actually representative of the way they have handled themselves. 
   This request was first made and denied when Republicans controlled Congress, and I was then the chairman of the Investigative Subcommittee. The Congress now has a Democrat majority. In my position as ranking member of the International Organizations Human Rights and Oversight Subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I have seen this time and again. 
   Our current subcommittee chairman, now that the Democrats have taken control of the House, is Congressman BILL DELAHUNT from Massachusetts. He read in the paper that our President is negotiating a secret agreement with the Iraqi Prime Minister that will govern the future relationship of our countries. Let me say that again. The chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee is getting his information about a hugely important bilateral security agreement from the newspaper. 
   So, Chairman Delahunt rightfully decided to conduct a hearing and find out as much as he could about the agreement and invited the administration to testify before Congress. How did the administration respond? They ignored the request. So the hearing was held with private witnesses. Yes, the public has a right and an obligation to fully understand what commitments are being made by our President in our name. But the President and this administration did not feel compelled to come and tell us anything about those agreements. 
   In a democratic society, policy is made after having open dialog. This administration has had to have been dragged, kicking and screaming, into open dialog because this President was elected President. George Bush was elected President. Perhaps he thinks he was elected king. 
   In another attempt last month, our subcommittee held another hearing on this Iraqi security agreement and again we invited an administration witness to come to the panel, and the response was silent. The subcommittee held another, a third hearing on the topic, and again the subcommittee invited a Member of Congress to tell us what is going on in these negotiations about an agreement, status of forces agreement, and other agreements, with the government of Iraq, which may or may not commit us to future military involvement in that country. Even our full committee chairman wrote letters asking the administration to participate, and all the requests to this administration by our committee were ignored, except in one instance Chairman Delahunt's subcommittee was told by a White House staffer, and this went to one of the committee staffers that were looking into this, that the administration was unwilling to participate because, ``There's nothing to talk about because we haven't put pen to paper.'' Haven't put pen to paper on this security agreement. 
   When confronted with the fact that the New York Times had written a story saying that a 17-page agreement was being passed around, that 17-page, and I might say, first draft of the agreement was being passed around, this same White House staffer backtracked and quibbled. This, Madam Speaker, is unacceptable. It's dishonest, and it is typical. 
   For an update, the stonewalling prevailed until a few weeks ago when Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, a person who I dearly admire, testified at a hearing of the full International Relations Committee. When asked, she pledged, now she was asked directly by Chairman Delahunt, she pledged that in the future, witnesses dealing with the Iraqi agreement would be forthcoming. 
   Well, today our subcommittee held another hearing, and at long last, at long last, the administration sent two witnesses, one from the State Department and one from the Defense Department, to come and talk to us about the ongoing negotiations and the ongoing development of different plans, the status of forces agreements and such 
   dealing with Iraq, agreements that might bind us in some way to future ties with Iraq, and we had a long and positive discussion. That should have happened a long time ago. But we had to force the administration, after months, after months, to have an open discussion of this issue. And it took Condoleezza Rice herself to overcome the bad attitude that was preventing that. So, thus, we have to assume that that bad attitude was coming from someone higher up than Condoleezza Rice. 
   Sadly, this administration's antipathy to the constitutional responsibilities of the legislative branch of government does not stop and end with the efforts of my Subcommittee on Investigations. In October of last year, 22 Members, 22 colleagues and I wrote a letter to the Acting Attorney General regarding former National Security Advisor Sandy Berger. In 2005, Sandy Berger pled guilty to mishandling and destruction of classified documents. He admitted to unlawfully removing and subsequently destroying classified documents from the National Archives. These documents dealt with the failure of our intelligence agencies during the Clinton administration to prevent the horrendous attacks of 9/11. 
   As part of his plea deal, Mr. Berger agreed to take a lie detector test, which was to be given by the Department of Justice. This would verify  what documents had been stolen by Mr. Berger. We are still waiting, Madam Speaker, for that lie detector test to be administered. We need to know what documents this man took from the Archives. It is important for us to know who is responsible for 9/11, what mistakes were being made, and what is being kept from the American people. As a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I was and still am rightfully concerned that this lie detector test has not been given and we haven't verified what documents have been stolen. 
   Well, on October 10, I and, as I said, 22 of my colleagues sent a letter to the DOJ, the Department of Justice. We received a letter back on October 22. It acknowledged the DOJ's receipt of our inquiry, and it was signed with an illegible signature so we weren't able to find out who the heck was answering us. And we were given a tracking number so we could track further correspondence. 
   Well, in spite of the fact that we were treated with this insulting computer-generated response, as well as a tracking number, what we have here is an official inquiry by 23 Members of Congress, and we had hoped that in time our request would at least be answered by a responsible party at Justice. Well, we got our wish. On January 24, 2008, 94 days later, we received a response, a dismissive short letter that explained that the Department of Justice saw no reason to polygraph test Sandy Berger. No reason whatsoever. 
   Madam Speaker, I have been a Member of Congress now for over 19 years, and I have never seen such a pattern of blatant disregard and outright disdain for Members of Congress. If Sandy Berger is not to be polygraphed to verify what documents he stole from the Archives, we need to know why such verification is not being done. We don't need to be dismissed with short letters and form letters. Twenty-three Members of Congress made a request, a legitimate request, and this administration thumbed its nose at these Members of Congress, and thus was thumbing its nose at congressional oversight and our congressional prerogatives as elected representatives of the people. This administration wouldn't even give a respectable answer to a rightful inquiry of Members of Congress. 
   Of course, on the other hand, the President thinks he has a right to make demands on us. In his State of the Union address, Mr. Bush demanded that Members of Congress must act on certain issues, we must do as he wishes, we must pass legislation that is necessary. Yes, we must do things; yet, when 23 Members of Congress, most of his own party, write to his Justice Department a serious letter of inquiry about a national security issue or we make a request to see a Federal prisoner, we get a computer-generated letter, or just a disdainful, contemptuous turndown. 
   By the way, one of the responses I received, obviously looking into this, all of them, not just one but all of them were basically, one was an old letter, a copy of an old letter that had been sent to another Congressman. This bad attitude that I am detailing is pervasive. 
   The handling of a proposed totalization agreement with Mexico is yet another example of the type of bad attitude and secrecy of this administration. The totalization agreements with Mexico have to be looked at very closely. Totalization agreements in and of themselves can serve a useful function. Large corporations in both the United States and elsewhere, in Europe, for example, assign personnel to work overseas, and during these years when these employees are overseas, they are double taxed. They pay both Social Security and the equivalent tax in their native countries. 
   So allowing the Social Security Administration and foreign agencies to give credit to one another towards their retirement systems makes sense when it involves a limited number of persons working legally and temporarily in another country.     
   So the concept is not itself alarming. However, this is not the case with illegal immigrants. 
   We have 20 million people living and working illegally in the United States, with Mexicans by far making up the largest chunk of this illegal immigrant population. This is not a limited number of Swedes or Japanese executives who will work here for several years and then go home. We are talking about millions and millions of people who can make or break our Social Security system if this issue is not handled responsibly. 
   Knowing the volatility of both the Social Security and illegal immigration issues, the totalization negotiations with Mexico have been kept strictly under wraps. Remember, these negotiations started in 2002. That is when Republicans controlled Congress. One would think that a Republican administration would at the very least advise Congress, perhaps a status report, concerning such significant diplomatic efforts as the totalization negotiations with Mexico. Well, Congress did not know the details about this negotiation until it hit the press. 
   Now, I just detailed for you a few moments ago how the President of the United States and this administration is keeping things from this Congress, tried its very best not to send witnesses to help discuss a grievance that is being made with the Government of Iraq. Well, that is not new. What I am telling you now is that it also manifested that very same lack of openness and secretiveness in these talks with Mexico over a totalization agreement. 
   And it wasn't just secrecy. Worse, the press releases about the negotiations that were going on were misleading, and it appears that Congress was being misled as to exactly what it was the administration was agreeing to concerning Social Security benefits for Mexican nationals who are working illegally in the United States. 
   This issue is of the utmost concern to my constituents, who are suffering from the uncontrolled flood of illegals pouring into our country. In California, our schools, our health care system, our criminal justice system all are at the breaking point. All we need is to attract millions more illegals into our country by giving them access to our Social Security system. 
   I have in fact proposed legislation to ensure that no work done while someone is in this country illegally should count toward a Social Security benefit. That is not what President Bush believes, however. In the totalization agreement negotiations, the Bush administration agreed that illegal aliens from Mexico will be eligible for the same treatment under Social Security as U.S. citizens, without ever becoming a legal resident or citizen of our country. 
   It took a long, drawn-out battle in the form of a Freedom of Information lawsuit to get the details of this agreement from this administration. Again, another example of secrecy, of deceit. Again, the administration was stonewalling and concealing information from the American people and from Congress, information Congress and the American people had a right to know. 
   Please remember, the danger from this agreement has not passed. While due to public outrage it has been put on the back burner, our President at any time can still submit this agreement to Congress, and he just might do it, just to show us who is boss. 
   Now, what I am describing is a pattern of arrogance and contempt that is especially true not just with Social Security, but with the broader issues related to illegal immigration and with issues dealing with Mexico. The tragic case of wrongly imprisoned Border Patrol agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean exemplifies the worst aspects of this attitude and this problem, and it will forever leave a black mark on this administration. 
   President Bush has himself made decisions that directly led to this ongoing travesty, which sees these two Border Patrol agents languishing in solitary confinement. They could have been sent to a minimum security prison, but the decision was made at the highest levels, no, that would mean they would be treated differently than other prisoners. 
   Of course, they are law enforcement officers. At a medium security prison, their lives are in danger, but they are not permitted, and this was made probably in the White House, they couldn't go to a minimum security prison. They would have to it stay in a medium security prison. One of them was attacked, as was very predictable, and beaten half to death, and now they  have been sent to solitary confinement, a punishment that usually goes to horrible criminals and to terrorists. Even the terrorists in Guantanamo aren't treated like this. 
   But yet Ramos and Compean, two men with perfect records, whose crime was they discharged their weapon at a fleeing suspect who they had interdicted while trying to put $1 million worth of drugs in this country, and they didn't report it right, which should have meant a reprimand, instead, the book was thrown at them. And not only was the book thrown at them, once they were in prison, the administration decided they would not be able to go to minimum security prison, which has led directly to the fact that they are languishing in solitary confinement and have been in solitary confinement almost a year. This is a disgrace. It is a horrendous, horrendous disgrace. 
   In this clearly questionable case, President Bush deliberately dug in his heels to protect his good friend and young prot&#233;g&#233;, prosecutor U.S. Attorney Johnny Sutton. Rather than entertain the probability that a tangible injustice was in progress and to instruct the Justice Department and the Department of Homeland Security to cooperate so that Congress could get to the bottom of this nightmare, this President has thumbed his nose at congressional concerns and initiated a policy of obstruction and denial in our efforts to get to the bottom of the Ramos and Compean case. 
   Let's note here that Members of Congress have pleaded with President Bush personally on this issue. We in the House even voted to take money for Ramos and Compean's imprisonment out of the DOJ budget. Not only will President Bush not entertain the possibility that an injustice is being done, his administration has obstructed congressional inquiries and lied, let me repeat that, has lied to Congress on this matter. 
   Since the Ramos and Compean case was brought to my attention in September of 2006, I have written over a dozen letters to this administration requesting various documents regarding the harsh, harsh prosecution of Ramos and Compean. I have been joined by several Members of Congress in this effort, in fact, many Members of Congress. In fact, a majority of Members of Congress have expressed themselves in the Ramos and Compean case, expecting that this travesty would not be permitted to go on. 
   Some of the Members who are most active have been Congressmen POE, Culberson and MCCAUL. These three Members from Texas, in fact they are all former lawyers, prosecutors or judges themselves, attended a briefing about the Ramos and Compean prosecution conducted by the Department of Homeland Security Inspector General's Office on September 26, 2006. 
   At that briefing, serious questions were raised by these Members about the fundamental justification for the prosecution of Ramos and Compean. The President and his lapdog prosecutors would like us to believe that they had no discretion. But the actual charges being brought against Ramos and Compean were totally at the discretion of the prosecutors. 
   What were the grounds for charging these men with crimes like attempted murder? Here is a drug dealer that they had just been in a physical altercation with who was escaping the scene of a crime, and they are charged with attempted murder for discharging their weapons at this fleeing suspect? 
   Assault with a deadly weapon, the unlawful discharge of a firearm during a crime of violence and a civil rights violation. These charges have put Ramos and Compean in prison for a minimum of 11 years. These were the charges that were made, and the jury was not permitted to hear all of the evidence, and they were convicted. 
   But what they were charged with was totally at the discretion of the prosecution. Did this fit the crime? Two men with a perfect record, two men who had an unblemished record. One of them, one of them, Officer Compean, it might have been Officer Ramos, but was up to be Border Patrol Agent of the Month. He was nominated for that the month that this incident took place. 
   They had nothing on their record that showed any misuse of firearms. Yet they did not report the incident correctly. They had wounded a fleeing suspect, although they didn't know they had wounded him. And who was the suspect? He was someone who they had who was a drug dealer, an illegal alien drug dealer who was smuggling $1 million worth of drugs into our country and was now escaping the scene of his crime after assaulting a police officer who had intercepted him. This, again, was not someone who was out having a picnic; not some person they discharged their weapons and shot who was an illegal alien just trying to cross the border. This was a drug dealer who was trying to bring $1 million worth of drugs into the country. And although these laws were never intended by Congress to be applied to law enforcement officers, who have to carry a gun and have to make split-second decisions, the gun law mandatory prison sentence was applied to these police officers, these law enforcement officers. 
   So, remember, we send a message not only to all the Border Patrol agents, but to law enforcement all around the country, that if in the middle of an altercation they discharge their weapon because they think their life is in danger, they may end up in prison, maybe even in solitary confinement. 
   Again, this is a travesty. The prosecutors knew that charging law enforcement officers in situations like this was not the intent of Congress, but they threw the book at the agents anyway. The charges made against Ramos and Compean, again, they require a 10-year mandatory imprisonment. Filing those charges was totally at the discretion of the prosecutors. They went ahead anyway. 
   President Bush has supported these prosecutors and backed them up in this grotesquely wrong decision. He has backed them up even when they have crossed the line of both legality and propriety. Let me repeat that. President Bush has backed up his prosecutors even when they have crossed the line of legality and propriety. 
   When Congressmen POE, CULBERSON and MCCAUL in their official briefing asked why the most serious charges that could be leveled at the Border Patrol agents were initiated by the prosecutors and why the prosecutors took the word of the drug smuggler that he had no weapon, and by the way, the Border Patrol agents said that they thought he had a weapon, of course, the drug smuggler, who got away, claimed he didn't have a weapon, the prosecutors took the word of the drug smuggler. 
   This was asked: Why would the prosecutors take the word of the drug smuggler over the word of two law enforcement officers? The Department of Homeland Security officials who were briefing the Congressmen said and proclaimed that this was a legitimate and righteous prosecution. These were, according to the Department of Homeland Security briefers, rogue cops. Remember, Ramos and Compean, clean records, and they are called rogue cops. In fact Johnny Sutton later went out and charged that they were corrupt cops. And as soon as he was, of course, brought to task, they said what corruption were they charged with, he had to backtrack on that, after he had already tried to smear these two guys in public. 
   Yes, they were labeled as rogue cops. And the Congressmen being briefed were told that these guys had actually confessed. Ramos and Compean confessed that they knew the drug smuggler was unarmed and that the agents didn't feel threatened. 
   Now, tell me, does that make sense? The agents are just going to say, Oh yeah, we shot at him, but we knew he didn't even have a gun and we didn't even feel threatened. Is that what the Department of Homeland Security was telling these three Members of Congress, all three of whom had been prosecutors or judges? 
   Of course, the biggest lie of all came out at this point when the Department of Homeland Security briefers insisted that Ramos and Compean had told their fellow officers the day of the incident that they wanted to go out and shoot a Mexican. That charge raised eyebrows. Certainly, how could anyone believe that? Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean are themselves Mexican Americans, married to Mexican American wives with Mexican American children. Sure, they just wanted to go out and intentionally shoot some Mexicans. Sure they did. This is what Members of Congress were told at an official briefing.     
   It takes a lot of chutzpa to give that kind of lie to Members of Congress. Asking for proof, the three Congressmen being briefed were told the charges were documented in the reports of the investigative officers. The Department of Homeland Security promised to provide these reports as proof that Ramos and Compean actually intended to go out that day and kill a Mexican. 
   The proof, of course, never came. The Congressmen kept asking. The calls weren't returned. It is called stonewalling. The DHS stonewalled for 5 months. 
   Members asked for copies of the completed report of investigation, which should have backed up these alleged facts that were being told to the Members of Congress during their September 26 briefing. Months passed, and nothing from the Department of Homeland Security. After several letters and public pressure, the Department of Homeland Security finally releases a redacted version of the official report in February 2007. Surprise, surprise, the alleged confessions by Ramos and Compean were not to be found. The documentation for the charge that they had brazenly proclaimed their intent to kill a Mexican was not there. How could this be? 
   The Department of Homeland Security officials had assured Members that it was a solid prosecution and they were guilty, that they wanted to shoot a Mexican. But these were flat out lies told to Members of Congress. 
   During a DHS Subcommittee hearing on February 6, 2007, DHS Inspector General Richard Skinner was questioned by Congressman Culberson about this issue. Under oath, Mr. Skinner acknowledged the information given to the Texas Congressman was in fact false, but smugly justified this blatant and willful lying by calling it ``a mischaracterization, unfortunately repeated at the briefing.'' No, Mr. Skinner, it wasn't a mischaracterization. It was a lie, no matter how colorful the euphemism. Ollie North was prosecuted for far less an egregious act. Ollie had given some misinformation to congressional staffers who were not even part of an official briefing to Congress. 
   To this day, absolutely nothing has been done about this crime, the crime of lying to Congress. Administration officials deliberately misled Members of Congress in order to discourage them from pursuing the Ramos and Compean case, and no one has been held accountable for it. 
   U.S. Attorney Johnny Sutton himself was publicly labeling these two brave men who risked their lives for us as corrupt. Johnny Sutton lives behind a gated community. Johnny Sutton, who has no track record of experience and service to his country as these two men who put their lives on the line for us every day, yet Sutton dishonestly claimed them to be corrupt. He also felt compelled to expose one of the men who had a family altercation a few years before that had nothing to do with his job; yet Mr. Sutton had to expose that family altercation of one of these, Ramos and Compean, to the public. 
   Well, Ramos and Compean is a case that stank from day one, and that stench is coming straight from the White House. The President, instead of looking into this matter, has dug in his heels, permitting his appointees to slander these two agents. 
   I would suggest that what we see in Ramos and Compean and the other issues that I brought up tonight demonstrate a pattern that is unacceptable. The American people should understand the attitude that is going on here in Washington. We should look closely, and we should demand a higher standard from this administration.  
   Even worse, the President has personally made decisions that have resulted in these two agents languishing in solitary confinement. Again, to say this is a mean-spirited vindictive prosecutor is to put it mildly. Importantly, President Bush is backing this malicious and unjustified prosecution to the hilt. 
   This case demonstrates why hearings are an integral part of the checks and balances system. It is in this venue that the Executive Branch is held accountable for their actions, under oath. It was only when an Administration official was under oath that the lies about Ramos and Compean were admitted. But this Administration has decided to thumb its nose at that obligation to make its case under oath at a public hearing. 
   Chairman WILLIAM DELAHUNT graciously approved my request to hold hearings on the Ramos and Compean case. In doing so, an official Subcommittee investigation into the case in preparation for the hearing was authorized. 
   During the course of this investigation, the resistance from the Departments of Justice, Homeland Security and State was consistent with the arrogance and obfuscation that flows through this Administration from the top down. Our hearing had to be postponed for months because of the Administration's refusal to provide requested documents or to send the necessary witnesses to testify before the Subcommittee, citing the Committee did not have proper jurisdiction. Therefore, U.S. Attorney Johnny Sutton, DHS Inspector General Richard Skinner or any of his investigators refused to appear. That decision was, clearly, made in the White House. 
   Our government provided a flawed immunity agreement, free health care, and unconditional border crossing cards to an illegal alien criminal in exchange for testimony that sent border patrol agents Ramos and Compean to prison. 
   Our government kept secrets from the jury that the drug dealer intercepted by Ramos and Compean had hauled another shipment of drugs across our border, this, while on a government issued border cross pass. Clearly, this is well within the jurisdiction of an oversight committee responsible for overseeing relations with other countries, including Mexico, including international drug smuggling. Clearly, the public has a right to know about these things. This Administration apparently believes there is no obligation to answer questions in public and under oath about actions and policies of the Administration. It's a travesty. 
   How bad is it? In preparation for the Ramos and Compean hearing, we made request after request, countless phone calls and even a FOIA lawsuit by the watchdog group, Judicial Watch, and the Administration still refused to release copies of the border crossing cards issued to the drug smuggler in this case, claiming the smuggler is protected under the ``Privacy Act.'' I was instructed by the Justice Department to obtain a privacy waiver in order for that information to be released. A privacy waiver from an illegal alien criminal? This absurd contention is just another example of a condescending and dismissive attitude. Such obstructionism, however, is the rule, not the exception with this Administration. 
   By the way, due only to a bureaucratic fluke we finally obtained those border crossing cards. Our repeated requests for documents were taken so nonchalantly that I actually received an official response letter from the Department of Justice, dated March 16, 2007, addressed to ``Congresswoman Rohrabacher.'' That was just one of several insulting form letters sent in response to Member letters regarding the Ramos and Compean case. 
   Plea after plea from Members of Congress, for the President to intervene on behalf of Ramos and Compean by either pardoning or commuting their 
   sentences, have been ignored. Last year, I personally reached out to the President to take the pressure and confrontation out of this issue. I suggested that the President direct the Justice Department to request that Ramos and Compean be permitted to remain free on bond, pending their appeal. Even common criminals get that kind of leeway. What was the response? A White House press release was issued the next day, proclaiming that the Administration opposed letting Ramos and Compean out pending appeal and that no special consideration would be granted to anyone, much less these two border patrol agents, sounds righteous--a position of not making any exceptions. Except, of course, for the fact that a short time later, White House aide Scooter Libby, had his sentence commuted by the President in a heartbeat. For the record, I believe it was proper to commute Scooter Libby's sentence. He got a raw deal. Unfortunately, this incident suggests that only the members of the President's clique gets such consideration. Of course, in the meantime, the President has pardoned or commuted the sentences of dozens of convicted criminals, including drug dealers. 
   It is truly with a heavy heart Mr. Speaker, that I stand here reciting example after example of the maliciousness and condescending attitude exhibited by this Administration. It is a problem flowing from the top. 
   When I hear my friends on the other side of the aisle accusing this Administration of stonewalling, of cover-ups, or of thwarting investigations, I sadly must concur with them. This White House exemplifies needless hostility, turf jealousy and obstructionism. The American people should know it, and should know that this charge comes not from a partisan Democrat, but from a lifetime conservative Republican.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (FREE BORDER PATROL AGENTS IGNACIO RAMOS AND JOSE COMPEAN -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, today we discuss a black mark on this administration, a vile crime against two law enforcement officers whose job has been protecting our families and communities and keeping control of America's borders. This sad episode started back on February 17, 2005, just another routine day for Border Patrol agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. Both were Border Patrol veterans with unblemished service records. Agent Ramos, in fact, had been nominated for Border Patrol Agent of the Year. 
   As they did their rounds that day 2 years ago, a trip sensor at the border was discovered, and Agent Compean then discovered footprints and drag marks, a usual indication of a drug load being smuggled across the river. He then spotted a vehicle and radioed the description and then followed the suspect. The suspect realized he had been made and turned around to rush back towards Mexico. 
   Agent Ramos then spotted the van driving at a high rate of speed. After the driver ignored all commands to pull over, of course, Ramos gave chase. 
   By the way, according to the prosecuting attorney, pursuing fleeing suspects without a supervisor's permission is against Border Patrol policy. 
   This, in and of itself, is an insane policy. The drug smuggler who they were pursuing abandoned his vehicle and fled toward Mexico on foot but was intercepted by Agent Compean. Once again, ignoring several commands by Agent Compean to stop, a physical altercation ensued with Compean ending up in a ditch. 
   While seeing his opportunity, the smuggler then ran toward the border, which was nearby. According to Agent Compean's sworn testimony, while running, the suspect turned and pointed with something shiny in his left hand. Believing his life was in danger, Agent Compean opened fire. Hearing gunshots, Agent Ramos came to his side, and he, too, shouted for the smuggler to stop.     
   But instead of obeying his command, the illegal drug smuggler once again turned as he ran and again pointed something shiny at the officers. Ramos, believing it to be a weapon, fired one shot. After disappearing into the banks of the Rio Grande, the smuggler reappeared on the Mexican side where he jumped into a waiting van. Unbeknownst to the officers, Ramos's bullet may have hit the illegal drug smuggler in the left buttocks. 
   Minutes after the shooting, seven other agents were on the scene, including two supervisors. When the abandoned van was examined, 743 pounds of marijuana were found. The payload was seized, and one would think congratulations would have been in order. Agent Ramos and Compean are heroes, right? They are responsible for taking off the streets $1 million worth of drugs bound for our communities. Good job fellows, right? Wrong. 
   At this moment Agents Ramos and Compean, not the illegal drug smuggler, are languishing in a Federal prison serving 11- and 12-year sentences. This is the worst miscarriage of justice that I have seen in my 25 years of public service. It is a nightmare for the two Border Patrol agents and their families, these Border Patrol agents who willingly risk their lives protecting us for 5 and 10 years. 
   The whole rotten episode turned justice on its head. The book was thrown at our heroes who protect us, while the drug smugglers got immunity. According to the U.S. attorney, Johnny Sutton, a Bush appointee and a longtime friend of the President, Ramos and Compean are not heroes. In fact, he considers those two officers to be criminals, charging them with assault with serious bodily injury, assault with a deadly weapon, discharge of a firearm while committing a crime of violence, which carries, of course, a minimum mandatory sentence of 10 years, and a civil rights violation. 
   Sutton claims that he had no choice but to prosecute the two Border Patrol agents because, according to Sutton, they broke the law when they violated these procedures concerning the discharge of their weapons at this fleeing suspect. 
   No. Even if procedures were not followed, Sutton could have granted immunity to the law enforcement officers and thrown the book at the drug smuggler. That was his choice. He chose the side of the drug smuggler and threw the book at the Border Patrol agents. This was an indefensible decision, and now Sutton lies to us and to the American people, suggesting that he did not have a choice, that he had to prosecute. 
   Well, the facts don't back him up. And what happened after this man got away? After the incident the drug smuggler contacted Renee Sanchez, a childhood friend for advice. 
   Now, why did she contact Renee Sanchez? Because Renee Sanchez happens to be a current Border Patrol agent in Arizona. And instead of turning in this drug smuggler, turning the drug smuggler over to the authorities for prosecution, this law enforcement officer, Agent Sanchez, he is sworn to uphold the laws of the United States, but he chose to personally intervene on behalf of his childhood friend who was a known mule for the drug cartels. 
   He was also called as a character witness on the drug smuggler's behalf during the trial. Mr. Sanchez contacted the Department of Homeland Security, who in turn decided to open an investigation into the conduct of Ramos and Compean. What? What? You have got a drug smuggler with 750 pounds of narcotics who is being thwarted from making his delivery, and that he complains that he was shot at, and our Government decides to investigate the law enforcement officers. 
   Mr. Sutton had every chance to focus his enormous prosecutorial powers on the drug dealer, but he chose to target the law enforcement officers. He chose to turn a procedural violation into a criminal act rather than prosecuting a career drug smuggler. 
   As part of their investigation, the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General sent a special agent to Mexico to offer the drug smuggler immunity in exchange for testimony against the Border Patrol officers. The smuggler was then brought back to the United States and given free medical care at all taxpayers' expense. 
   Now, one has to wonder if Mr. Sutton, our U.S. attorney, would have even spent one-tenth of that effort trying to find this criminal himself and track him down in Mexico so that he could be extradited and punished for smuggling narcotics into our country. No. No effort was made to do that. Instead, an expensive Herculean effort  was made to try to get the Border Patrol agents. 
   Now the drug smuggler is being portrayed as a victim because he swears he was not armed. Our government takes the word of this nefarious character over two law enforcement officers. In short, the initial decision to prosecute the two Border Patrol agents instead of the drug smuggler was indefensible. Period. 
   Sutton's only defense, to cover up this horrendous decision, has been to lie and to demonize the two Border Patrol agents. Well, it just does not jive. 
   According to that investigative report, Agent Compean's sworn statement, in his sworn statements he repeatedly stated he believed the drug smuggler had a weapon and felt threatened. The Border Patrol training manuals allow for this type of deadly force to be used when an agent fears imminent bodily injury or death. Both of the officers say they saw this drug smuggler turn and point what they believed to be a weapon in their direction while he was running away. The wound created by the bullet corroborates their version of the events. 
   So we have the prosecutor, even with the direction of the trajectory of the bullet as indicated by the wound, but the prosecutor is ignoring the fact that it backs up the Compean and Ramos position. 
   During the trial an Army doctor, a prosecution witness I might add, testified that the drug smuggler's body was bladed away from the bullet that struck him. That is consistent with the motion of a left-handed person running away while pointing backwards, causing his body to twist. 
   Once again, this corroborated Ramos's and Compean's belief that the smuggler had a weapon. And that was a reasonable belief considering the smuggler was transporting over $1 million of drugs that day. And I am sure, of course, drug dealers with $1 million worth of drugs are not armed. 
   Now, it is important to understand that only three individuals were eyewitnesses to the crucial events of that day, the two accused Border Patrol agents and a self-admitted drug smuggler. Those are the only two people who saw what happened. The other Border Patrol agents who responded to the scene testified under immunity, and quite often contradicting themselves; however, the most important thing when thinking about their testimony is their view of the events was completely obscured by a levee at the road, which is about 12 feet higher than the road on which they stood, and about 8 feet higher from the spot on the other side of the levee where Ramos and Compean stood and where they fired their pistols. 
   So let me make it very clear what I just said. None of the other agents could possibly have seen what transpired between Ramos and Compean and this drug smuggler, even if they climbed on top of their vehicles. It was physically impossible for them to see. Yet these agents were threatened with prosecution if they did not testify against Ramos and Compean. They agreed to testify. If they agreed, they would be granted immunity. It begs the question why these agents need to be granted immunity if they were not involved in the incident, and this whole thing calls into question what effect that this threat that was held over their head had on the truthfulness of their testimony. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (IMMIGRATION ISSUES -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I have defended President Bush throughout most of his administration: From the war in Iraq; to those tragic mistakes that were made at Abu Ghraib, realizing they were just mistakes, but not at the heart of the policy; from the tax cuts to the preparation of the prescription drug bill. 
   I feel that I have been a loyal soldier to this administration, to the President, and, yes, to the country, especially on the country's war on terror. I have been four-square behind the President's successful efforts in that war and some of these efforts that we have been talking about today that are straining the public morale. 
   I have been very supportive of the President's tax efforts, fundamental economic efforts in the tax area to keep our economy humming. 
   So after all of this support, last week it was personally offensive to me to hear that I and millions of people like me were being described by the President as not wanting to do what is right for America because we refused to support the Kennedy-Bush immigration bill currently being examined and going through the Senate. 
   The President also suggested that those of us who oppose the type of legalization of status and those of us who  are opposed to the type of legislation that we believe will promote more illegal immigration into our country, that we are just trying to frighten people by using the word ``amnesty.'' 
   The President, of course, insists on defining amnesty in a way that is independent and contrary to the way everyone else defines that word, and every time he does that, he loses credibility. Every time he follows his inclination to try to obfuscate this issue of illegal immigration, rather than to deal with it and to debate it four-square, he loses credibility. 
   The President also suggests if we know the details of the bill, the legislation, I call it, the Bush-Kennedy legislation, that we will support it. Well, the more we find out about that legislation going through the Senate, the more vigorously we should oppose that bill. 
   There are literally hundreds of loopholes in that legislation. I believe the very basis of the legislation is flawed in its intent. The fact there are so many terrible aspects of this bill, one has to suggest that the bill's intent was not the right intent to begin with. It was not a bill aimed at stemming illegal immigration, but instead this bill has some other intent, obviously. 
   The American people, however, can decide for themselves. The President says we need to get to know what is in the bill. Well, let's take a look at what is in the bill. 
   Problem number one: This legislation is an amnesty bill. I am sorry if that doesn't go by the definition that is handed down by the White House, which obviously has the ability to define or redefine words, but it is an amnesty bill. This bill grants immediate legal status to illegal aliens, and that legal status happens immediately, before any of the enhancements. They will have what they call ``enforcement enhancements'' in the bill that will help us ``enforce our immigration laws.''     
   But before any of those enhancements are activated, and they are called the triggers, before they are activated, every person who is here illegally will be able to be granted legal status, a temporary visa. It is called a Z visa. 
   So 24 hours after an illegal immigrant files an application, they will be granted a probationary visa, the so-called Z visa. It will be issued, and with that legal status, that visa, comes the right to live and work in the United States: Immediate legalization for everyone who is here. 
   The President tries to suggests it is not amnesty because we are not granting citizenship. And then a big cloud of smoke comes up for people to try to understand what's going on here. 
   Amnesty doesn't mean granting citizenship; amnesty means somebody is doing something illegal and you have now made it legal. All of them get this amnesty, this legalization, within 24 hours of applying the minute this legislation passes. That is whether or not the triggers, the enforcement mechanisms that are also in the bill, if they are never activated, these so-called probationary visas will never expire. They will continue on. Every 8 years or so they will have to be reapplied for, but they can be reapplied for and granted further extensions forever. 
   And the Social Security cards which come with that can be issued. These people when they have Z visas, these probationary visas, they are now eligible for all of our government programs with the Social Security cards and all of the other things that people who are here legally, people who immigrated to this country legally, people who waited for years to come here, who obeyed our rules, these other people are going to get it immediately. 
   Of course, U.S. citizens, what does U.S. citizenship get? The only difference is a right to vote. So how is this not amnesty? Obviously it is. 
   Word games aside, the Senate bill not only grants amnesty, but it also provides things that will do great damage other than just the amnesty to our country. 
   The much-touted fines of this bill, and there are fines that are required, and we have heard this, another cloud of smoke comes in during that discussion on this bill. We hear this idea there is going to be a $5,000 fine for those people who want to be serviced by this legislation. No, that $5,000 fine is not required before someone gets a legal status. That is what happens before someone becomes a citizen. This legislation that is passing through the Senate does not require $5,000 to legalize status. You cannot buy a used car in this country for $1,000; but $1,000 will give you the right to live in the United States and obtain government benefits, including Social Security, that goes with that legalization. 
   The Z visa fine, which is a requirement, it is just a payoff, that $1,000, is not the $5,000 that everybody hears about. It is about $1,000. Unfortunately, ignorant and lazy mainstream media people have been using the $5,000 figure, and even that I think would be a very questionable thing to give all of these benefits and rights to people here illegally for $5,000. No, we are going to give it to them for $1,000. And by the way, it can be paid on the installment plan. You can buy the right to live, work and receive benefits in the United States of America for $1,000. And it can be renewed every few years, it can be renewed every few years forever. 
   If a government official misuses information, according to this legislation, if there is information on an illegal amnesty application, and that information is misused by a government employee, there is a $10,000 fine for that government employee who would misuse information on an illegal immigrant's amnesty application. 
   So breaking into our country, entering the United States illegally, using false documents, which almost all of them have, identity theft to hold a job, and they are holding of course jobs that they are not entitled to have in the first place, this is somehow less onerous, we are only going to charge them $1,000 to legalize their entire status, but we are charging $10,000 for a paperwork mistake by a government official who might misuse the information or get it wrong on the application. 
   It should be noted that the amnesty of the Senate bill treats illegal immigrants better than they treat legal immigrants into the United States. Illegal aliens who snuck into the United States 5 months ago are given immediate legal status while legal immigrants who applied to come to the United States after May 1, 2005, must start the application process all over again. 
   Now these are people who have been waiting overseas. They applied after May 2005. They are overseas waiting. Those people who are not the law breakers, they must start the process over again. 
   So the illegals can cut in line, go around everybody around the world where there are millions and millions of people who are waiting to come here legally, who respect our laws, those people who cut in line in front of those who would be U.S. citizens and come here legally are the ones given the benefit. Those waiting in line have to, in fact, go to the end of the line, in some cases, according to this legislation, while the others scoot ahead. 
   This, of course, is a serious blow to those waiting in line who would like to come here legally, and that has not escaped the notice of the foreign press. People overseas are taking very close note of this. The foreign press is making it very clear what this legislation is doing to people who respect the laws of the United States. 
   This legislation is now being touted overseas by people suggesting that anyone who stands in line and waits and respects our laws is a fool. And, of course, we are making them fools by rewarding those who don't obey the rules and punishing those who do. 
   By the way, in the Senate bill a note from a friend, a note, a letter from a friend, is considered evidence that one has lived in the United States before. When an illegal alien applies to live in the United States, if this legislation passes, he can literally provide a sworn declaration from someone, as long as it is not a relative, as proof that he lived in the United States and now is eligible for this legalization of his status. 
   Is there anyone outside the White House who does not understand that this will cause a massive influx of new illegal immigrants into our country? Because if they want to get legal status, all they have to do is find someone to write a letter for them, and as far as they are concerned, that is a get-into-America-free card that one of their friends will write for them. Does anyone think that we are not going to  have a massive flow of people? That all of the people waiting in line will not hear about this? And what about all of the people not waiting in line hearing about this? 
   Between 12 and 15 million people are expected to apply for amnesty if the legislation now going through the Senate passes. Now how can the Department of Homeland Security possibly verify the letters that are going to be presented by people to prove that they have immigrated to this country or lived in this country for a given period of time; and thus, then they have legal status if they have lived here. Even if it is illegally being here, they still will be legalized if they have a 
   note from their friend. Does anyone not understand the jeopardy that this rule puts us in in America? Yet it is in the bill. I mean, it is bizarre but it is in the bill. Who wrote this bill? Whoever did let this provision be in the bill. 
   And as for the much-publicized background checks that amnesty seekers are supposed to have, the background checks are going to happen on those people applying for citizenship. The background checks are going to happen after legal status has already been granted as a temporary status, a legal status that can be again renewed. Background checks are not required before the probationary visas are issued. 
   And yes, you heard it correctly, legal status must be granted to an illegal alien within 24 hours of that illegal alien making application. Even if the alien has not passed all of the appropriate background checks, within 24 hours, the Department of Homeland Security has to grant him legal status, a ``probationary visa'' which can go on forever. Can you imagine the criminals, the carriers of communicable diseases, the dregs of other societies, who will obtain a legal right to live and work in the United States because of this loophole? 
   How about the gang who flew planes into the World Trade Center? How about the terrorists, would they have been granted legal status immediately by this bill? Many of them of course were here illegally. They had overstayed their visas. The answer is yes, they would have made legal status almost immediately. It is insanity. 
   And a final burst of insanity, illegals who have been ordered deported by a United States court already, and the court has ordered them to be deported because they are not here legally, those people already under court order to be deported, will be eligible for this amnesty, for this legalization of their status. 
   Now listen to this carefully. Illegals who have been through the courts and are under court order to leave the United States, can apply for amnesty. Almost 636,000 aliens are in this country in defiance of a court order to leave. All of them can now apply to stay here under this bill. They will be given a temporary visa, a ``probationary visa,'' that can be renewed. 
   Talk about teaching a disrespect for law. Does a court order mean nothing? How can we simply allow people who have openly defied our laws; and, yes, also defied a court order from a judge in the United States of America, how can we simply ignore that? That is what the Senate legislation would have us do. That is the Bush-Kennedy legislation making its way through the Senate. 
   Problem number two with the bill, the enforcement triggers in the bill are actually weaker than the current law. What is a trigger? What we have are the enforcement mechanisms that are in this bill that are supposed to be activated. They will supposedly help us enforce the laws, like fences and more beds in detention centers and stronger border patrol. 
   The provisions of this bill, these triggers, these enforcement mechanisms, are actually weaker than current law. This bill does not require, for example, one more detention center bed. It does not require one more mile of fence. It does not require one more agent than is currently required by law. In fact, the bill cuts the fencing requirements in half so the bill actually, when they talk about to get the fence, we have to have this bill, although there is already legislation requiring the fence, this bill requires actually one-half the fencing that is already required by law. 
   It requires 11,500 fewer detention spaces and fewer border patrol agents than the Congress has already authorized in other legislation. So we are supposed to support the legalization of status for illegals in order to get the trigger mechanisms to work, in order to get the enhancement of enforcement when this bill weakens the enforcement that is already in place.     
   To think you can weaken an enforcement provision and then pretend that legislation somehow strengthens border enforcement is an insult to the American people. 
   Wake up, America. Our country is being stolen from us. Our country is being invaded, and the Senate legislation will accelerate this invasion. 
   And it is not just Mexican Americans who are crossing the border, nor South Americans and others who are crossing the border from Mexico. We also, of course, have a huge problem with illegal immigration of people who are coming into our country and overstaying their visas. They're just as much a part of the illegal immigration problem as those people crossing our Canadian and our Mexican border. Yet this bill does nothing, absolutely nothing, to strengthen the system to try to reform the U.S. visa system. They call it the U.S. visit exit system which, right now, when someone comes into our country with a visa, we don't know if they have left. 
   It was mandated back in 1996 that that system would be fixed and that we would track visitors to our country so we would know if they had come and if they'd gone home, and so then we would know at least who is here illegally. That hasn't even been fixed by this legislation. Of course, not knowing who is left or who stays in the United States, it makes it impossible for us to track who has overstayed their visa. 
   May I remind you that somewhere between a third and half of our illegal alien population, that's between 4 and 5 million people, are people who are here who have overstayed their visas. So I think it's misportrayed when we only look to our southern border, and too many people, too many people talk about this as something to do with Mexico. Well, it has something to do with Mexico, because a large number of illegals are from Mexico, but this problem is way beyond that, and there are many, many other illegals in this country, from Asia and elsewhere, that need to be brought to justice and to be returned to their country. 
   Now why is this such an important component of this bill? Because it's already been mandated by Congress, and what is important, in actually looking at the legislation going through the Senate, is that legislation doesn't even touch on this provision of trying to get control of this huge wedge into our system, this road on which people are invading like bacteria into our country. 
   The Bush-Kennedy legislation in the Senate, of course, does not touch on it, because that legislation is not aimed at stemming the flow of illegals into our country. It is, indeed, pro-invasion legislation. 
   Problem number three, a great many criminals are eligible for amnesty under the bill going through the Senate. Again, this is a simple statement of fact, and this is very bizarre. 
   Under the bill going through the Senate, some child molesters are eligible for legal status. I'm not making this up. A child molester in this legislation, a child molester who committed his crime before the bill was enacted, is not barred from amnesty if their conviction omitted the age of their victim. This is a bizarre loophole. 
   Who wrote this bill? Who included that in this bill? This is a nutty provision. The people who put that provision in the bill are working with those people who wrote the legislation. 
   Also, we have gang members who are eligible for amnesty. As long as a gang member signs a piece of paper renouncing their gang membership, they can apply for the probationary status and must be granted it within 24 hours. Now, I'm certain that signing a piece of paper will mean that the gang members will change their drug dealing and violent ways and become positive members of our society. 
   This bill will cost American taxpayers billions and billions, yes, trillions of dollars. Just one example. The earned income tax credit which now provides help for financially low-income Americans, we actually are providing them through this tax credit  some stipend, some money, it is currently done at a cost of $20 billion. It's a $20 billion expenditure that we're trying to help out low-income Americans. 
   Illegal aliens on Z visas and guest workers will be eligible to apply for the earned income tax credit immediately. They are now legally in this country, so they can have that income tax credit. The Congressional Budget Office says this will cost $20 billion more of our money. 
   Now the 1996 welfare reform bill demanded that persons be a legal resident of the United States for 5 years before they can receive any benefits that are eligible to people in the United States. Why are we granting illegal aliens and guest workers benefits that we do not give to legal aliens? How can this possibly be right that we treat illegal aliens better than law-abiding immigrants, much less treating them better than the poor people who are waiting in line, trying to emigrate to this country legally, who respect us and want to become U.S. citizens the right way? 
   Well, also in the Senate legislation is, of course, the old issue of State tuition and loans. Yes, in this legislation, State tuition and loans will be granted to illegal immigrants once they get their probationary visa. That means anybody who's come here illegally will automatically be eligible for all these educational benefits that our children are eligible for. 
   Actually, it's worse. Our children can't get in-State tuition. If we're 100 miles away over your State's border, we can't go to the other State and go in that facility, but someone who has snuck into this country from thousands of miles away or from the other side of the world can get a tuition break, and it is paid for by us, the taxpayers. They get in-State tuition, even though they come from a far-off country and have come here illegally, while if we try to go to another State we have to pay higher rates. 
   Now the legislation does ban some illegal aliens from being able to collect Social Security, and that's true. But we know that the President of the United States, for example, has actually already made an agreement with Mexico, although it was a secret agreement in order to provide what they call a totalization agreement, which will permit illegals from Mexico who have been working in the United States to obtain Social Security benefits for the work that they did here illegally, but that's just for the people from Mexico. 
   Now this bill says that others outside of the totalization agreement won't get Social Security benefits for the work they did while they were here illegally, but there's a big loophole in the bill. Any illegal who overstayed a visa but was issued a Social Security number will be allowed to obtain credit for the work they did illegally. 
   In other words, if someone was here illegally, overstayed a visa, while they were here on the visa, if they got their Social Security number, they will then be permitted to get credit for what they did when they were working here illegally because they then had their Social Security card. 
   We know that between, as I said, 4 and 5 million illegal aliens are people who entered here on a visa and then did not go home. This loophole would allow these millions of people who broke the law to work in this country to collect Social Security. At the very time when we are rightfully worried about the future solvency 
   of Social Security, we will allow those who violated their visas to obtain the fruit of their illegal labors. They will be permitted to have Social Security. This is an incredible injustice to our seniors who depend on that system and should not worry about what amounts to basically this theft of Social Security benefits. 
   Now, let us note that there are many people trying to suggest that illegal immigrants actually help Social Security. People actually said this here in Washington. 
   Well, let's note this. More than half of the illegal immigrants in our country work for cash under the table. Now, of those people who are working for cash, are they helping our Social Security system? We're being told that illegals working here help our Social Security system. So these illegal immigrants, because they're being paid under the table, half of them are paid under the table, they do not pay into the Social Security system. And since they are paid cash, the employers do not pay. Not only does the worker not pay his contributions to the Social Security system, but the employer isn't paying his portion into the Social Security system. 
   So a negative effect is this job, if you look at it even beyond that, is that this job is a job that could be filled by an American citizen or a legal immigrant, but now that job's been taken by an illegal who is not doing anything to pay into the Social Security system. The legal immigrant or the American citizen, whose job that would be if that person wasn't there, would be paying into the system. 
   So Americans are losing jobs to illegals who aren't paying their fair share into the Social Security system. How does that help the Social Security system? 
   Corresponding to this, a flow of illegal labor into our country brings down wages in general. So employers might have paid $10 to $12 an hour, they're now paying much lower wages which then results, of course, in lower contributions to the Social Security system. 
   Don't tell me that illegal immigration or that huge amounts of immigration to our country will help the Social Security system. It's a grave threat to the Social Security system. 
   Of course, there are those who say, well, actually the way to make this right is to legalize all those immigrants who are here illegally and then they will be paying Social Security. Well, let me note this. Legalizing the status of those who are here illegally will make the Social Security challenge we now face dramatically worse in the future than it is now. Any plan that specifically gives Social Security to those who have been working in this country is an invitation to fraud on a massive scale. 
   What would stop anyone from claiming that they worked here under a false Social Security number? Hundreds of thousands of people pay into Social Security under various numbers. Hundreds of thousands, millions work here under false Social Security numbers. So how can you prove who used those fraudulent numbers? Who were they? You can't prove who they were. If they make that claim, how are we going to prove that that's not them? 
   We already have a huge problem with identity theft and fraudulent identification. Allowing those who work here illegally, who have worked here illegally to participate in Social Security, exponentially increases the incentive for fraud. Because now they were using false papers to begin with, now they will claim that they were here and they could claim they worked for any number of people, even if they didn't. 
   Another overlooked consequence is the survivor's benefits and disability benefits of the Social Security system. What would stop anyone from claiming my spouse worked in the United States under this false number, I am his widow, these are his children, please start sending me survivor's benefits now that we are entitled to them? Remember, billions of people around the world have no retirement whatsoever. Why assume that only younger immigrants will come to the United States? Why wouldn't someone in their 50s think, gee, if I come to the United States and work for a few years, maybe 10 years, the Social Security that I will get will let me live very well at home; I'll get it sent to me at home. Why wouldn't they think that? 
   If you had no retirement benefits and you knew that we were legalizing the status of millions upon millions of people who have come here, why wouldn't you do anything, including commit fraud, which they already do to get jobs anyway with their fraudulent documents, why wouldn't they do anything to get their hands on that Social Security? The bill going through the Senate would facilitate that. 
   Furthermore, many people who would be legalized under the several different proposals that are going around, including these ones that we are hearing in the Senate, the people that are coming here already and will come here under the system because it will attract many more illegals, these are mainly poor and unskilled workers. 
   The fact is over half the illegal immigrants in this country do not have a high school education. The inconvenient fact is that Social Security pays out more benefits proportionately to lower-wage workers than to higher-wage workers.  
   A projection I've seen from Social Security assumes that immigrants have the same general earning potential as native-born Americans. Well, that's obviously not true. 
   So to bring in people with low education or little education, what we're going to do in the long run is place the burden of about $100,000 per person in the long term on our Social Security system because they will collect that much more than they put in, especially if they come here when they are in their 50s, in the late 40s or 50s. In the long run, this will be a catastrophe for the Social Security system. 
   And last and foremost in terms of Social Security, in 1986, after being told that it would only legalize about 1 million people, 3 million people were actually legalized. Three million illegal immigrants ended up being given amnesty. That's back in 1986.     
   It is now 20 years later. The current illegal immigrant estimate ranges from 12 to 20 million people. I keep hearing the lowball, 11 million. Let me note the 20 million figure that I just suggested, that we have up to 20 to 25 million illegals in this country, this didn't come from a government source, it was from a private study that was conducted on the monies that were sent back as remittances to other countries. 
   They studied that and figured out how many people it would take to supply those kinds of remittances, and they came up with about 20 million people could be here illegally. Well, what's going to happen when those people are legalized? Last time, 1 million people became 3 million, and now we have maybe 15 to 20 million. Well, if we legalize those people who are already here, and then we permit them into the Social Security system, this will turbocharge the flood of illegals into our country. 
   So, what does that mean? We are going to end up, not with the 20 million that we had, 3 million before, and it became 12 to 20 million, now, with 20 million, 12 to 20 million, we could expect that by legalizing their status we will have between 45 and 60 million illegals here by 2027. 
   Wake up, America, 45 to 60 million people from other countries pouring into the United States? What is that going to do to our society? No fence, no wall, no minefield, no system will keep illegal immigratios out of this country. If we give them a reasonable hope that generous government benefits, including retirement benefits like Social Security can be theirs, if they can just get across the border and wait us out. Because that's exactly what we are doing right now. If we pass this bill that's going through the Senate, we are telling the people throughout the world that they will be able, if they wait us out and get here, they can expect to get pension benefits, health benefits, education benefits, beyond their imagination. 
   Who would not come, when they come, by the tens of millions, oh, much to the surprise of the people who were passing this legislation. After all, Senator Kennedy didn't predict this massive jump that we have now when they passed the bill in 1986. Well, what's going to happen when they get here? The Social Security system will collapse, as will most of our government infrastructure. 
   Listen, being irrationally benevolent to illegals is a crime against our own people. The bill that's going through the Senate would bring about such a calamity in the United States of America. It would be a calamity for average Americans. Illegal immigrants are not, despite what you have heard, required to even pay back taxes in the legislation going through the Senate. The bill originally did not require any back taxes to be paid however. 
   However, there was an amendment to the bill, I understand, that was passed, asking that illegals pay back taxes. All right, we are going to treat our illegals better than we treat our own people, because that provision in the bill is weak. It only requires that illegal immigrants show proof that they have paid taxes for 1 year under subparagraph DI, that's according to the bill. 
   Unfortunately, the bill was written in such haste that there is no subparagraph DI in the legislation. So there are certain to be court cases arguing whether or not the provision that requires a certain amount of back taxes to be paid, whether or not that is a legal requirement or not. Because there is no section DI in the bill. 
   Remember, you do not have to show that you worked in the past in order to obtain a legal status. So the actual effect of the full amendment on taxes will be that you will have to show that you will pay taxes in the future if you come, and, frankly, how do I become an illegal immigrant with this type of lax attitude towards taxation? I would love not to have to pay my taxes if I had back taxes that I owed. 
   If people are paid under the table for years, we are just going to give them, issue them a waiver. You have paid up, made all this money in the United States. U.S. citizens will go to jail if they make a $1,000 mistake. You could have earned, $10-, $20,000, paid taxes, and you are forgiven. 
   The final insult, our tax dollars will go to lawyers that are helping illegal immigrants become legal. That's right, the bill gives money so that those people who are here working in agriculture will have other people who come to them and offer them free legal services to legalize their status. 
   Well, another problem, problem number 4. The authors of the bill say that this bill will end chain migration. But the bill that is going through the Senate does not end chain migration. Chain migration, just so people will understand, is when we allow relatives of immigrants who are already here to come to the country for family unification. They will do that and get in line before those other people who have been waiting long, long periods of time to emigrate to the United States. 
   Well, chain immigration is actually dramatically increased by the legislation going through the Senate. Now, they claim they have ended it, but look at what the bill actually does. The bill, right now, there are 138,000 people who come into our country legally through what they call this chain migration, you know, family reunification. For 8 years, they are going to increase that number to 440,000 a year. You get that? 
   So they say we are not going to change migration, but we are increasing it. We are tripling it for at least 8 years. Does anyone really believe that 8 years from now they are going to then end this? We have tripled chain migration. 
   The point system, which supposedly will take the place of this chain migration, is a joke. The merit system will not even kick in until 2016. What year is this? That's 9 years from now. So what you have to do is you have to take it on faith that the future Congresses won't scrap this system altogether. But, of course, the merit points are here, we are talking about, are granted for high demand occupations. 
   Now, what we are talking about here, of course, is the fact that the bill over there provides for a guest worker program and for us to restructure, supposedly restructure the legal immigration coming into our country, even though, by the way, we all know that by granting amnesty that will bring tens of millions of more illegals into the country anyway. 
   But the legal system, we are going to have a merit system, and we are going to have people coming into our country to fill jobs like janitors, maids, gardeners and other low-skilled occupations. 
   Well, you know, I can see that instead of bringing people in from overseas by the hundreds of thousands, by the millions, perhaps we should let the market work and let the pay level of our low-skilled workers increase so that our own people can get the job. In this country there are 69 million people of working age who are not working. People say, well, how are you going to get the people to pick the fruit and the vegetables? Some jobs they won't do. The President, of course, has stopped saying they won't do, he says jobs that they aren't doing. 
   Well, first of all, we have millions upon millions 
   of prisoners. We have more prisoners who are healthy young men, by and large, 18- to 40 years old, who are sitting in prison doing nothing but pumping up, watching TV. Let's let them pick the fruits and vegetables. Let's let them make some money on it. Let's let them help pay for their incarceration. 
   No, there are people in our country to do the jobs, but they are not going to do it for free, and they are not going to do it for a pittance. I used to work  as a janitor, yet the janitors make about the same as I made when I was a janitor. What's different, the GDP has tripled. The janitors are making about the same amount of money. 
   Why? Because a flood of illegals have come into this country and bid down wages. Every middle class American working person has had his income brought down by illegals. Oh, yes, it's helped the employers, all right. It's helped the bosses. It's helped the rich people who want to hire illegal nannies. It's helped the people who want their lawns mowed because they would have to pay more wages. 
   They would have to pay the children of the neighborhood perhaps more than they would pay the illegal immigrant who comes around to mow the lawn. It's better for our country to have these people who are not working paid more money and have the people in our middle class pay more money than bring in millions and millions and millions of people into this country legally or illegally. 
   Of course, this country, this system would suggest that we bring them in illegally. That's what the Senate, the Kennedy bill, wants to do. 
   We currently have a 15 percent unemployment rate among those in America with less than a high school education. Why shouldn't we let them get those jobs? Yes, they might have to pay them more money, because they would have to attract them to work. That makes more sense to me than bringing in these people from overseas. 
   In my own district, I was contacted by people in the health care industry begging me, say we need nurses and health care people. Well, officially, they can't find the nurses and the people to work. They wanted me to support bringing in 100,000 Filipino nurses, 100 now from Pakistan and India. 
   But these are high-paying jobs, even the high-paying jobs, they want to bring in foreigners to do the jobs. No, this $50- to $75,000 health care job should go to a young American or middle-class American who is working their way through school. It could be a middle-aged American person who just wants to upgrade their skills. It should go to that person. 
   We went to junior colleges last week during break. I brought all the junior colleges and the hospital people together to find out why we didn't have enough people, trained health care people to work. Why was it a pressure for us to bring people from the outside? 
   We found out that in our junior colleges where we should be training these people, that they weren't permitted to pay the instructors of the people being trained for these health care programs more than they paid the other instructors who were teaching sociology and political science. 
   That just means that these nurses, who can earn more money on the outside, won't come to be teachers at junior colleges. They have 185 students at Golden West College who are taking nursing, and yet 24,000 students are taking classes that will enable them to get a job selling clothing at Nordstrom's or being the assistant manager of a 7-Eleven at $35,000 a year when there are $60,000-a-year jobs that are going begging in the health care industry, and they want us to bring in people from the Philippines. 
   This is wrong. This is a betrayal of the American people to bring people in from outside our country to bring down wages and take the jobs away from the American people who need those jobs. This is wrong. 
   But people say, no, no, we need a comprehensive bill, there is all this talk about a comprehensive bill. All this talk about a comprehensive bill is a cover, because every part of the legislation going through the Senate actually, that will be implemented, that will be different than the law that exists today, actually encourages the invasion of our country by illegals and by a massive flow of people coming into the country even through the legal system. 
   Do we need a comprehensive bill in order to try to set up those protections that will protect our border? No. It's already mandated. That bill actually weakens it. 
   Do we need something to help us with our visa system? No. You know, this isn't helped at all by the legislation going through the Senate. 
   Do we need it in order to have more Border Patrol agents? No we have already mandated more Border Patrol agents that is required by that bill. All of those aspects of that legislation are covered for the real purpose of the bill, which is to legalize the status of 15 to 20 million illegals who are here, which will then create a massive flow of illegals into this country, which will result in 20 to 30 to 40 million new illegals in this country within 10 years. We will have lost our country. Wake up, America. We already have a flood of illegals sweeping into our country, crowding our classrooms, closing our hospital emergency rooms, up leashing violent crime, driving down wages. None of this is theory.     
   It is a harsh reality that faces the American people and is borne not out of academic studies but is being borne out by the life experiences of American people, the American people across our country. 
   Middle class America is being destroyed. Our communities are not safe, our Social Service infrastructure is collapsing, and, yes, it has everything to do with illegal immigration, immigration that is out of control. And the bill going through the Senate, once they legalize the status of all those who are here illegally, there will be five and six times more illegals, ten times more illegals in our country. And what will happen then? It'll be lost. 
   Year after year, while our schools have deteriorated, our jails filled and our hospitals and emergency rooms shut down, the elite in this country have turned a blind eye to this disaster that is befalling the rest of us, their fellow Americans. The elites obscure the issues and try to maneuver, to keep in place the policies that reward illegal immigrants with jobs and benefits, just like the bill that's going through the Senate will reward the illegals who have come into our country. 
   This country, the upper class says, can't function without cheap labor. And it may be cheap to the captains of industry. It may be cheap to the political elite. But it's painfully expensive to the American middle class. 
   It's our kids whose education is being diminished, our families who are paying thousands more in health insurance to make up for the hospital costs of those who are giving free services to illegals. It's our neighborhoods that are suffering from crime, perpetuated by criminals who have been transported here from other countries. People who should not be here, criminals who should not be here are raping and murdering American citizens. More Americans have been murdered by illegals over the last 5 years than American soldiers have been killed in Iraq. Yet we hear a cry of pain and agony coming from the Congress for soldiers who volunteered to go overseas and take their chances. And what do we hear for the victimized Americans who are being raped and murdered in greater numbers than those being, the Americans being killed in Iraq? We don't hear anything except, well, let's, we need a comprehensive bill, a bill that somehow is going to be fair to the illegal immigrants who are already here. 
   Our job is not to be fair with people who have come here illegally, not to watch out for the benefit of people who are overseas. Our job as elected officials here, as Members of Congress, is to watch out for the United States of America and the people of the United States of America. There's nothing wrong with that. That's not being selfish. 
   And what do we hear from some of the Senators backing that legislation, even Republican Senators, as if we're being hateful by expecting our government to watch out for the benefit of Americans, rather than giving benefits away, draining our treasuries and giving it to people who have come here illegally or people in other societies? This is wrong. It's morally wrong. It's a dereliction of our duty as people who were elected to watch out for our people. 
   It's in our neighborhoods that are suffering from crime that's perpetuated by criminals who are here, as I say, from other countries. It's our livelihood that's being dragged down as wages are depressed and anchored down by a constant influx of immigrants, mostly illegal, some with H1-B visas, who will work for a pittance. 
   The American people have every right to expect that we're not going to  let masses of people come in and bid down their wages; that we're not going to let people come into this country and give them, like that bill does, immediate legal status when some of them have communicable diseases, diseases which are coming into our schools which we licked years ago, threatening our children. 
   It is not hateful to say that we have to watch out for our children. It is not wrong for us to put that as a priority and say, yes, we care about those overseas, we care about others. But it is not wrong and hateful and it is not some sort of a selfishness to say we've got to take care of our own people with our limited resources. 
   Of course, big business has a hold on the GOP. There's no doubt about it. I've been in the party for a long time to see the undue influence that big business has on the party. It's very clear. 
   Yet big business is in an unholy alliance and the GOP is in an unholy alliance with the liberal left, the liberal left coalition that controls the Democratic party. It is this unholy coalition between the big business element of the Republican party and the liberal left coalition which dominates the Democratic party that is responsible for this invasion of our country, this attack to the well-being of our people. The coalition gives the jobs and passes out the benefits that have lured tens of millions of illegals into our country. 
   And it's no accident. This predicament was predictable. Big business wants to depress wages. The liberal left that controls the Democratic party wants to have political pawns. They believe that large numbers of illegals will help them change America, or even large numbers of newcomers will help them change America. 
   Well, if you give the jobs and benefits, as this coalition in our Congress has done for the last 10 years, if you give away the policies that created the jobs and the benefits that have gone to people who've come here illegally from overseas, well, if you give them the jobs and benefits, the masses of the people over there, if you told them that they are eligible for these benefits and these jobs, they will do anything to get here. And that's exactly what they've been doing. As you say, give it, and they will come. Surprise, surprise. 
   And now, the out-of-touch elite claim this new piece of legislation, the so-called comprehensive bill will, in some way, fix the immigration crisis. That's what you hear. 
   Well, everybody wants a comprehensive bill because we've got to do something. Doing nothing is better than doing something wrong. Doing nothing is better than doing something that'll make a problem worse. And of course the people who say you've got to do something are the ones who created the problem in the first place. 
   And, as I said, all of these things that they're trumpeting in the bill, the new enforcement measures, the security measures, the fence, the new agents, the employer sanctions, all of these things are already in place in the law. But we have to give amnesty to illegals and actually encourage tens of millions more to come here in order to get that? 
   It's like Lucy holding out the football for Charlie Brown. This bill is yet another attempt to trick us as Lucy tricked Charlie every time. It is an illusion, a scam that will make things worse. 
   The Senate legislation being touted by Senator Kennedy and the few Republican senators and our President, as I say, the purpose of that bill is to legalize the status of 15 to 20 million illegals, which will then bring tens of millions more. It is a pro-invasion bill. It behooves all of us, all of us to oppose that legislation because we love America. 
   The President has it all wrong. We want to do what's right for America. That's why we're opposing what he's suggesting. 
   In that bill, of course, is a provision that would increase the Border Patrol. And, as I say, the legislation going through the Senate actually increases the Border Patrol by fewer agents than is already required that the Border Patrol expand. A great deal has been made out of that. But let's take a look at what that really means. 
   Do we really believe that President Bush and this administration and, yes, those supporting this bill, are supportive of a strong border control of the fence and strengthening the Border Patrol? 
   This is an administration that has backed up U.S. attorneys who have taken Border Patrol agents who have stopped drug smugglers at our border and thrown the Border Patrol agents in jail for not following the proper procedures, giving immunity to the drug dealer, and throwing the book at the people, the law enforcement agents who are trying to protect us. 
   As we speak, Ramos and Compeon, two Border Patrol agents who, for 15 years combined in their lives, were risking their lives every day to protect us. One of them is a 10-year veteran of the Naval Reserve. The other served in the military before joining the Border Patrol. 
   These people have clean records. 
   Yet the U.S. attorney has thrown the book at these folks, these two brave men, men whose records are clean. And yet he has, the U.S. attorney claims they are corrupt again by playing word games, just like his boss. And today, as we debate this bill, these two Border Patrol agents languish in solitary confinement in Federal prison. 
   How can anyone claim that they are in favor of the Border Patrol, strengthening the Border Patrol agents, when this administration has done so much to demoralize those people in the Border Patrol and to attack the well-being of those who are protecting us? 
   The demoralization of our Border Patrol is a grave threat to our national security and the safety of people. We need to back our Border Patrol agents. They do not support this legislation. We need to be strong. We need to make sure that we are doing what is right for the American people. That is what this battle is all about. 
   Let's remember those two Border Patrol agents because they symbolize everything that's wrong with that legislation, everything that's wrong with the position of the elite in this country. These are just ordinary men, Ramos and Compeon, who were out trying to protect us, just like our military people overseas, risking their life. Yet they were told not to use their weapons on the border, and they did, and they did not follow the proper procedures, and they were thrown in jail. 
   Remembering them, remembering what we do right for our own people, let us oppose this effort to change the immigration laws that would bring more illegals into our country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (ENSURING CONTINUED ACCESS TO STUDENT LOANS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Reserving my right to object, I am just not fully aware of this. I understand that a very important vote that was taken yesterday has been negated and that there is some objection to correcting the situation, which was a clerical error, apparently, by unanimous consent on our side. 
   I am just wondering where that stands in comparison to the unanimous consent objections that were being expected of us today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (IMMIGRATION POLICY -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, today was May Day, and there were demonstrations across America in favor of a more open immigration policy, an immigration policy that I might add has already resulted in 15 to 20 million illegals being present in our society. The American people need to pay very close attention to this issue. 
   Several weeks ago, the President of the United States took advantage with Congress being out of session to give a major immigration policy speech down along the border in Arizona. Flanked by dozens of border patrol officers, President Bush stuck to the usual script, securing the border, yes, but first a guest worker program must be set up that includes giving Social Security benefits to illegals, to those people who have been working here illegally, and of course, part of the program must be to legalize the status of those millions of illegal immigrants who already reside in our country. 
   I have observed in my 30 years in Washington that when a President initiates a major policy speech on a controversial issue while Congress is in recess, it usually is because what he is advocating is indefensible and that he is seeking to minimize criticism. 
   While the President was posturing with the border patrol, we Members were back in our districts listening to the pleas of our constituents. The American people are begging their government to save their families from the onslaught of illegal immigration. 
   Instead of meeting with America's elite who live behind gates and work at corporate boardrooms and whose kids attend private schools, President Bush should be talking to people who are watching their children's public schools, their community hospitals and the security of their own neighborhoods being brought down by a massive flow of foreigners, illegally establishing themselves in our country. 
   If this President pushes through his so-called comprehensive immigration plan, which will legalize the status of those who have broken our laws and are in this country illegally, America's current 15 to 20 million illegal residents within a decade will mushroom to another 40 to 50 million. 
   Wake up, America. We are about to lose our country. Wake up, America. The President and Congress are not watching out for you. 
   The comprehensive immigration legislation that is being bandied around town by this President and by Members of Congress will be a green light to 100 million people throughout the world to do anything they can do to get to our country because we do not have the will to stop them. No matter how impenetrable the defense, no matter how diligent the border patrol, there will be no stopping them. Give them benefits, give them jobs, give them health care, give them every right to the treasures that belong to the citizens and legal immigrants who are in our country and they will come from overseas, and there will be nothing that we can do to stop them because we have given them the greatest incentive to come here, even though they are breaking our laws in doing so. 
   Tens of millions of new illegals are bringing down the wages of our middle class, some carrying disease right into our schools and communities, some criminals, many in need of Social Security, education and health benefits, all to be taken, of course, from the resources that are dedicated to Americans so that our American people and legal immigrants will have these resources available to them. That is where all of that is going to come from. Who is going to pay the price? The American people will pay the price, not the American elite, the American people. 
   Wake up, America. You are about to be assaulted, and your elected representatives are not on your side. No one will stop the horde if this so-called comprehensive bill goes through. Who is going to stop them? Not the border patrol. 
   And what about the border patrol, America's most important defense in this battle against such an invasion? While the President stood with border patrol agents down in the Yuma sector in Arizona, praising them for their hard work, saying how proud he was of them, the border patrol agents were painfully aware that two of their fellow officers languish in Federal prisons. They are being held in solitary confinement for doing their job, the job that the President claims he wants the border patrol agents to do. 
   It is the President's appointees who have perpetrated upon this border patrol the worst miscarriage of justice that I have ever witnessed. Ignoring pleas for mercy and pleas for justice, ignoring the clear misconduct of his prot&#233;g&#233;, U.S. Attorney Johnny Sutton, the President has backed up his employees at the expense of border patrol agents, especially these two, Ramos and Compeon. 
   The President has permitted his Justice Department to throw the book at these two border patrol agents for stopping a drug dealer, and perhaps, just perhaps, maybe there was some procedural errors that they were involved in. This administration turned what is, at worst, procedural violations, that they did not file the reports, even though there are questions as to whether their supervisors should have filed the reports or not; in fact, the rule states that the supervisors will file such reports, that this administration has turned that lack of proper paperwork into felonies that have put Ramos and Compeon, two border patrol agents who have well-served our country, defended our families with their lives, they are now languishing in prison for 11 years of hard time. 
   President Bush backs up his appointees who either incompetently or maliciously chose to prosecute our law enforcement officers, while at the same time, I might add, chose to grant immunity to the drug smuggler who they stopped.  
   U.S. Attorney Johnny Sutton claims that he had no choice in this matter, the biggest lie of all. U.S. Attorney Johnny Sutton had plenty of choices to make, and as a prosecutor, that is what prosecutors do. They make mistakes on who to prosecute. That is one of the fundamental decisions they have to make. He was faced with a decision, either prosecute the drug dealer who had $1 million worth of drugs that he was smuggling into our country, or prosecute the border patrol agents by turning their procedural mistakes into breaking the law, and thus, into felonies for supposedly covering up the breaking of the law. 
   Our U.S. Attorney chose to give immunity to the drug smuggler who was, of course, smuggling $1 million worth of drugs into our country, but not to give immunity to the border patrol agents for procedural missteps.     
   That was his decision. He decided, our U.S. Attorney decided to back the drug smuggler and destroy the Border Patrol agents, and he knew exactly how that decision would affect the lives of Ramos and Compeon. 
   Agents Ramos and Compeon should have been commended for their courageous service in stopping an illegal drug smuggler from bringing in over $1 million worth of drugs into our communities. If they had stopped a terrorist with a nuclear bomb, I am sure by now they would be national heroes. Instead, the President refuses to take a sober look at the facts of this case and issue pardons for these men, the pardons that justice demands and the American people are crying out for, and the Border Patrol, throughout this country, is looking at as a sign whether this President supports the job they are doing. 
   But, of course, they won't issue any pardon. Even to let these men out on bond pending their appeal would require an admission that some loyal Bush appointee was wrong. 
   Instead, the President continues to back his long-time buddy at the Justice Department, Johnny Sutton, even though the decision he made, instead of going after the drug dealer, to go after the Border Patrol agents and destroy their lives, was obviously a bad call. 
   The President has ignored the rotten smell that is coming from this case. He has ignored the fact that the Department of Homeland Security operatives went to Congress and intentionally lied to Members of Congress on investigative subcommittees, claiming that Ramos and Compeon had joked about going out and shooting a Mexican the day they intercepted this drug dealer and the incident ensued. 
   Ramos and Compeon are Mexican Americans. They are Americans of Mexican descent. Their wives are Americans of Mexican descent. Their children are Americans of Mexican descent. Yet we had members of the Department of Homeland Security from this administration lying to Congress saying these men wanted to go out and shoot Mexicans. They lied over and over again, and this administration has lied over and over again, dealing with the Ramos and Compean case. 
   What we have here is a situation where the supervisors who were on the scene within minutes of them stopping this drug dealer, and when he escaped over the border, those supervisors did not ask Ramos and Compeon about the incident. Ramos and Compeon didn't comment, because they knew that procedures were that they would have had to do 5 or 6 hours worth of more work, filling out more paperwork, bringing in the FBI. 
   Both the supervisors and Ramos and Compeon knew that this would have just created a lot more work for them on their own time. They decided not to do it, because the guy had gotten away, so why report that shots were fired, and they didn't even think they had hit him. 
   Well, making it worse, of course, as we know, the supervisors, who were actually threatened by the U.S. attorneys, the prosecutors in this case, were threatened that if they did not testify against Ramos and Compeon, and claimed that, in fact, there was an attempt to cover up this incident, rather than just being a case of where they were trying not to have to put themselves in a position where they were going to have to do all this more paperwork, they threatened the supervisors to put them in jail. Of course, the supervisors buckled. They didn't want their lives to be destroyed. 
   Well, let me put it this way. What we have got here, failure to report, to file a report, is a procedural violation. It is not a crime. This U.S. Attorney chose to go after the Border Patrol agents instead of the drug dealer. He chose to make a procedural violation into a crime, into a felony. 
   Again, threats were made against the supervisors, so what do you have there? A witness being threatened by the prosecution. We have seen this across our country. We know when prosecutors try to get somebody and squeeze them to say what's the truth or not the truth in order to protect themselves. They will stretch the truth. 
   So either they went along, the supervisors went along on the assault on Ramos or Compeon, or they too would be prosecuted. Everybody hears this, gets the picture. The whole thing stinks. Ramos and Compeon are taking a fall to demonstrate to all Border Patrol agents that if they use their guns to secure our borders, even from drug smugglers, they will be destroyed. They will be targeted and destroyed by this administration because that is this administration's policy. 
   Yes. Now, what does that policy mean? Where did that come from? If Border Patrol agents can't use their guns at the border, how can we control our borders? 
   Now, of course, the Border Patrol agents are afraid, and, rightfully so, to get out of their car if they see a potential drug dealer driving across. What a horrible message, what a horrible decision. Yet this President has to stick with his appointees. 
   Clearly, border security is not a priority for this administration. There may be well some other priority at work, some other agenda that we don't know about. Granting immunity to this drug smuggler, granting immunity to the people who smuggle drugs, human traffickers, which happened in another case, I might add, where another law enforcement officer ended up in jail, doing this, while granting immunity to the human traffickers and the drug smugglers, suggests the bizarre nature of this administration's border and immigration policy. 
   If anybody denies it or defies it who works for the Border Patrol or anyone else in the government, this administration, through Ramos and Compeon, through his prosecutors, have made it clear that anyone who defies their policies will be vilified and destroyed. Note, U.S. Attorney Johnny Sutton, Johnny Sutton, the U.S. Attorney labeled Ramos and Compeon in the media as ``corrupt.'' There are quotes around corrupt. 
   This is the U.S. Attorney himself, not the prosecutors who were filing or arguing the case. The U.S. Attorney labeled Ramos and Compeon corrupt, a clear lie. Neither of these two agents have ever been accused of corruption. 
   Ramos, a 10-year veteran of the Border Patrol, an officer in the Naval Reserve, had been nominated Border Patrol agent of the year. He was nominated for that award. To be considered for that award, just prior to this incident, this is a corrupt officer? Ramos and Compeon are clean. They have never been accused of that. Yet the U.S. Attorney is on the radio calling them corrupt. 
   Something stinks about that situation, doesn't it. U.S. Attorney Johnny Sutton lied and claimed that Ramos and Compeon were corrupt, and then he threw the book at them. 
   At the same time, he gave a professional drug smuggler a ``get out of jail free'' card and had his prosecutors lie to the jury telling them that the drug smuggler was a novice who was only trying to raise money to buy medicine for his sick mother. That's what the jury was told when the prosecutors at that time knew, they made that argument to the jury, that this was a novice at one time to raise money for a sick mother, they knew that drug smuggler had already been involved in a second drug smuggling incident that they knew of. 
   This is while he was under immunity for the load that he had been intercepted for bringing into the country by Ramos and Compeon. By the way, it's not just Ramos and Compeon, of course. We are talking about a border and immigration policy by this administration that is bizarre, that is incomprehensible, that is totally confused  and leads to many, many questions. Why is, for example, why is this President, if, yes, Border Patrol and immigration control issues are important to him? Why is the President holding the security of our borders hostage to, basically, making sure that we can't proceed with defense and other border security measures unless we also pass a bill that includes the provision of legalizing the status of 15 to 20 million people who are already in this country illegally? 
   What do those two issues have to do with one another? If he believes in the security of the border, why is he demanding also that in order to secure the border we have to legalize the status of 15 to 20 million illegals, by the way, which will lead to a massive hoard of new illegals, of course, that no fence will stop. No one is being fooled by this call for a comprehensive reform. 
   It is a code word for amnesty, legalizing the status of those who are here illegally. The President has destroyed his own credibility by playing such word games as defining amnesty in a way such that nobody accepts the 
   definition. It is a totally unacceptable and irrational definition of the word ``amnesty.'' 
   Why the President has chosen over and over again to try to play that kind of word game, I don't know. The chaotic and confused picture of this comprehensive border policy, and the things that are going on in our border, suggests that there are other forces that are at play. What are those forces? There are certainly very powerful interest groups that play here in Washington, and there may well be a hidden agenda that is being foisted on the American people. 
   The President's own words suggest this. During the February 14, 2007, press conference, President Bush said the following, ``I believe that in order to enforce the borders, we need a temporary worker program so that people don't try to sneak into the country to work, that they can come in an orderly fashion and take the pressure off the Border Patrol agents that we have got here so that the Border Patrol doesn't focus on workers that are doing their jobs that Americans won't do, but are focusing on terrorists and criminal elements, gun runners, et cetera, to keep the country, both of our countries, safe, Mexico and the United States, safe.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, I am not really sure that it's the responsibility of the United States government, to have a high priority of keeping Mexico safe. Just what is being proposed, how will that affect Mexico at the expense of the American people? 
   Just whose interest is our government representing? During his Yuma speech, the President proclaimed the border ``should be open to trade and lawful immigration and shut down to criminals and drug dealers and terrorists and coyotes and smugglers and people who prey upon innocent life.'' 
   How does that square with the President's U.S. Attorney and long-time friend and protege, Johnny Sutton, who he backs to the hilt, throwing the book at our Border Patrol agents and other law enforcement officers over procedural errors, but at the same time letting drug smugglers go, letting people who are smuggling illegal immigrations into our country go? 
   Of course, that is not the only thing, Ramos and Compeon and what's going on with our law enforcement. The policies themselves are incomprehensible. 
   According to a recent AP story, 98 percent of all illegal border crossers are not even prosecuted, 98 percent. Between October 1 of 2000 and September 30 of 2006, nearly 5.3 million illegals were simply escorted back across the Rio Grande and turned loose. Well, no wonder they don't give up, and they end up coming back a second or third or fourth time. 
   The Justice Department claims it has ``higher priorities than going after ordinary illegal immigrants.'' They said they elected to pursue a more elective strategy going after drug smugglers and criminals. Really? Tell that to Border Patrol agents Ramos and Compeon, who are languishing right now, right now as we speak, in solitary confinement in Federal prisons, all because U.S. Attorney Johnny Sutton, close friend and protege of the President, decided to grant immunity to the drug smuggler in order to testify against the Border Patrol agents. 
   Not only did Sutton allow this criminal to get away with it once, as I stated, this very same drug smuggler was involved with a second shipment. He has probably been involved with many more shipments of drugs. 
   But, they knew that he was involved with a second shipment even before Ramos and Compeon went to trial, and that information was kept from the jury. Let me repeat that, information that the very same drug smuggler that had been stopped by Ramos and Compeon, that very same man who now Ramos and Compeon are being tried for at that moment for violating procedures because he was just a novice, a man who had never done this before, this was his first attempt at drug smuggling. The fact that they knew of a second load that would have already happened by the time of the trial, that was kept from the jury. 
   The jury was presented by the prosecutor, a lie, that this man was obviously a novice, and had never been involved in drug smuggling before. The jury was told the drug smuggler was, as I say, first-time novice, to pay for his mother's medicine.     
   And the U.S. Attorney knew that he had already been involved in a second drug load, and that was kept from the jury. Something really stinks about this case. This is the same U.S. Attorney that has been claiming all along, along with the prosecutors, that the drug smuggler wasn't armed. 
   Now, we know that both of the Border Patrol agents suggest that as the drug smuggler is running away from them to get across the border, he turned in a way that appeared to be aiming something in their direction, and they didn't have much time to think about it and they fired their weapons. Now, whether or not he had a gun is impossible to prove. He got away. He went across the border. We have only the word of the drug smuggler that he was not armed. And, again, the drug smuggler is not only believed, but his story is backed up by the U.S. prosecutors over the word of two veteran law enforcement officers, one who served this country for 10 years in the Border Patrol, the other 5 years, both of them veterans of our military. And they believed the drug dealer, in order to destroy the Border Patrol agents. And then, again, we hear over and over again, and presented in trial, that the drug smuggler was unarmed. Yet it is only his word that suggests that. And I might add this; the drug smuggler's family has stated to journalists that this drug smuggler had always been armed when smuggling drugs, and he had been doing so since he was 14 years old. 
   Now, let's put that in perspective. Does anyone really believe that a drug smuggler in that area is going to be in possession of a $1 million asset, these drugs, and he won't have anything there to defend those assets on either side of the border? Our U.S. Attorney believes the drug smuggler when he says he is unarmed, and destroys the Border Patrol agents when they say they thought he was aiming something at them. To this day, the smuggler is free from prosecution. He has never been charged with a crime, and is awaiting a potential settlement in his $5 million lawsuit against the Border Patrol. 
   Now, let's recap. Two Border Patrol agents are languishing in solitary confinement in Federal prisons for 11 years, while the illegal drug smuggler whose van was abandoned contained $1 million worth of narcotics, he was granted immunity; he has been given free medical care, and provided an unconditional border crossing card, which was more than likely used when he smuggled a second stash of drugs into the United States before Ramos and Compean went to prison. And we are supposed to believe that this President wants to free up our Border Patrol agents from just normal duties so they can go after the real criminals? 
   By the way, at Ramos and Compean's trial the prosecutor belittled the Border Patrol agents for thinking that they should be out trying to stop drug smugglers. And that prosecutor, belittling them in front of the jury, said if they wanted to stop drug dealers, they should have joined the DEA, the Drug Enforcement Agency. This is our prosecutor that is supposed to be representing us belittling these two men for stopping a drug dealer with $1 million worth of drugs, saying that they  should have gone and joined the DEA if they wanted to stop drug dealers. To suggest all of this represents a confused, chaotic, and contradictory border strategy and immigration policy is to put it mildly. 
   During the Ramos and Compean trial, the lead prosecutor bragged how section 1325 cases are not even prosecuted. What are 1325 cases? Improper entry by an alien. It states any alien who enters or attempts to enter the United States at any time or any other than as designated by Immigration officers shall be fined under title XVIII or imprisoned for not more than 2 years, or both. 
   The law is clear, but the law is not being enforced. The law isn't being enforced. Our Border Patrol agents are under attack even if they stop drug dealers, much less other people. The other people who are just coming across, we are not enforcing that. Millions have been returned without having to pay any penalty at all. So why not come back a second and third time until they succeed? 
   And why isn't the law being enforced? And because the law hasn't been enforced, the situation at the border is out of control. Surprise, surprise. If you don't enforce the law at the border, it's out of control. Tens of millions of people are here who shouldn't be here. 
   Now, who is to blame? Yes, I think the top person in our government and all the people in our government who have been supporting these policies are to blame. Whether it is President Bush, President Clinton, or Members of leadership in Congress, the law hasn't been enforced, and it has been very clear that it has not been enforced. This has not been an accident that we have 15 million to 20 million illegals in our country creating horrible situations for driving down wages, destroying education, et cetera, et cetera. More and more people are coming across our borders without any type of consequence because it has been a policy not to enforce that law, the policy of this administration for the last 6 years. Of course, who did they prosecute but the Border Patrol agents if they didn't do their paperwork right. 
   Well, what is going, of course, we have more and more people crossing the border. Those who are here and get here illegally begin to realize that they are able to find work, and they are actually getting jobs that pay them more money than they would have in the countries from which they come, Guatemala, Mexico, El Salvador, China, and elsewhere. So they realize they can get work here and get paid more. And they also realize that they are able to get free services from the Federal, State, and local government. The taxpayers of the United States are going to provide them services they could never get at home, health care, education, housing, et cetera. It is a bonanza for these people. 
   Now, they are not bad people. Let me state for the record and be very emphatic about this. A huge proportion, maybe 90 percent of all illegal immigrants coming to this country are likely to be wonderful human beings. If we were in their spot, we would be coming across the border, too. They are not at fault for wanting to come here, and they are not at fault for coming here to better the lives of their families, to better their own lives. That's not their fault. We don't dislike them for that at all. The people to blame here, the people to be upset with are the policymakers who permitted this massive flow of people into our country; because, even though these are good people coming in, they are having a horrible impact on our society. A horrible impact. And it is up to us to represent the interests of the people of the United States, even though these good people who would like to come here by the tens of millions all around the world are good people. And my heart goes out to them. But my job and our job should be to protect the interests of the people of the United States. And there is nothing wrong with that. There is nothing selfish with that. There is nothing selfish with wanting to protect our children and make sure the health care and resources go to our children and our families. 
   But the word has gone out all over the world that they can get jobs, they can get benefits. And I will tell you this. If the word goes out that we are going to 
   legalize and we end up legalizing the status of those who are here illegally, the flow of illegals that is now coming into our country will turn into a tidal wave. We have trouble controlling our borders now. If we legalize the status of 10 million to 15 million illegals in our country as what is being advocated in this supposed comprehensive immigration plan, it will make the situation so much worse, so much more out of control, it will be a catastrophe for this country. Ten years from now, we will have lost our country to tens of millions of new people who are consuming all of the resources we put aside for our elderly, for our young people, for our children, for our families. 
   Wake up, America. You are being betrayed. We are being told that our Border Patrol agents are going to secure our borders: Just pass the comprehensive bill, then we will secure the borders. Well, first of all, those are two unrelated issues. But then, on top of it, we know now that our government is prosecuting the Border Patrol agents or anyone else who gets in the way of the hordes of illegals that are now flooding into our country at this level. This is total insanity and is already doing, as I say, great harm to the people of our country. And no doubt, even though the President was there with our Border Patrol agents, our defenders in the Border Patrol and elsewhere are demoralized. 
   And it is not just Ramos and Compean why our defenders are demoralized. What about the case of Edwards County, Texas? Deputy Sheriff Gilmer Hernandez, another American of Mexican descent.     
   He too was prosecuted and imprisoned under the direction of Johnny Sutton. Anybody catch a pattern here? 
   In this case, Deputy Hernandez tried to protect himself from a van full of illegals who tried to run him over after a routine traffic stop. He shot out the tires, and in the process, an illegal hiding behind the van's wheel well sustained a minor injury. 
   Once again, our government chose to ignore the immigration crime there of human trafficking. You had human trafficking laws that were being violated by those illegals who were driving that van and taking those people in. And our U.S. attorney chose to go after the deputy. Not only did the coyotes get away, the injured illegals have already been rewarded with $100,000 and green cards to match. 
   Deputy Hernandez now sits in prison. The illegals are now living in Austin, Texas, $100,000 richer. This is bizarre. This is twilight zone stuff. 
   These aren't idiots that have designed this policy. These are people who have the wrong goals in mind, who are not representing the interests of the people of the United States, and are certainly not appreciative of our defenders. 
   We're being told that the Justice Department's priority is to pursue criminals and human traffickers, yet we hear about that case that I just mentioned. 
   Our defenders are afraid to defend us. And they're not afraid to defend us. That's not just a policy that just happened. It's not just happening that they are afraid to defend us. This administration and the powers that be have set out to intimidate the Border Patrol and to make them fearful to enforce the law. 
   At the same time we are emboldening those who would break our laws. So it's been the policy, perhaps for a decade, perhaps more than a decade, but certainly during this entire administration, to intimidate those who are defending us at the border and embolden those who would cross the border illegally. 
   By the way, in both of the aforementioned cases, our Justice Department determined that the illegal aliens coming across this country, one, a drug smuggler, the others coyotes smuggling illegals across the country, that their civil rights were violated. 
   There's something wrong with this picture when our government is protecting the so-called civil rights of people who are smuggling drugs into our country and carrying loads of illegal immigrants into our country in violation of our law. Something is totally wrong with this picture. 
   If controlling the borders is a priority, why is this President, again, using border security as a wedge to  achieve other goals? And his other goals, of course, amnesty to those who are here illegally and setting up a guest workers program. 
   Again, whose interest is our government representing? 
   Economist Robert Samuels pointed out some of the horrible impact of this policy that we have had that has brought so many illegals into our country. He claims that what we are doing, you know, some people say we are bringing in cheap labor, but he suggests we are importing poverty, and that that importation of poverty is having a dramatically negative impact on our country. If this country continues to allow uneducated, unskilled workers to come here illegally, it will bankrupt America, and we are in the process of bankrupting America. 
   According to a report released by the Heritage Foundation, 50 to 60 percent of illegal immigrants are high school dropouts. 4.6 million U.S. households are headed up by immigrant dropouts. The Pew Hispanic Institute Center estimates that 49 percent of high school dropouts are illegal immigrants. 
   The Heritage report estimates that the cost to the American taxpayer over the lifetime of a high school dropout is $1.1 million per dropout. Because of the government benefits they receive versus what they pay back into the system in taxes, the net cost, per year, for all of these illegal alien dropouts that are coming here, high school dropouts, these poverty-stricken people, the net cost to us per year is $397 billion, almost $400 billion a year. 
   Put that in perspective. Of all the things we try to finance in this Congress and can't find an extra $25 million for breast cancer research. 
   Put it into the context with the millions of illegals who are working here in the United States off the books, who do not pay their share of the taxes, but will still reap the benefits of government programs, from welfare to health care to Social Security to public schools and housing. 
   This is a catastrophe, a catastrophe not just in the making, but a catastrophe in reality that we are living right now. I see it happening in my own Southern California district every day. 
   And what are those consequences? Let's just note. In my area, the schools, the quality of education is going down. For the ordinary people who depend on public schools, their kids are getting shortchanged. The emergency rooms in hospitals are closing up and health care's going down. 
   Our criminal justice system is being inundated and, we have, I'm not sure the exact number. I think it's 50 percent of all the felons, it might be 75 percent of all the felons where there are warrants of felons that they are looking for are illegal immigrant felons. 
   It's breaking down our criminal justice system. If you get raped or murdered or run over by a drunk in California in my area, it's likely it's been done by someone who should never have been there legally in the first place. 
   Our government is betraying the interest of our people. It's not protecting our people. Yet, politically, our government is dominated by powerful forces who want these high levels of immigration, legal or illegal. 
   This has been no mistake. People didn't just close their eyes and say, oh my gosh; there's 15 to 20 million people here illegally. No, it has been a policy decision made by people that we will support, that they will support the policies that have created this monstrous threat. 
   It is not an accident. It is not something that just happened. The policy decisions were made by an elite, but the American people were kept in the dark about these decisions. 
   Now, who was it? Who's behind this flow into our country? 
   First of all, business wants cheap labor. When I say that, that doesn't mean that they just want cheap labor from people who are coming here illegally. That means they want the people who are coming here illegally to bid down the wages of our own people. 
   So not only are the illegals working for less money, but now the American working people have to take less money, because their job will be given to an illegal. So big business wants cheap labor. They want the illegals to depress wages. That is a very powerful force. 
   The liberal left coalition, which runs the Democratic party, wants more illegals as well. They want the political clout that a massive influx of low class and highly manipulated immigrants will provide their power structure. So you've got big business interests and business interests and the liberal left democratic establishment. Now, that is a one heck of a tough coalition. And it's about as tough as it gets. 
   And yes, the political and economic elites have benefited from this. Yeah. The democratic elites have got their political tools. And the businessmen have the people who cut their lawns, be nannies to their children, change the sheets in their hotels, do everything that they need to have done at a much lower wage, and give them the opportunity to give themselves huge pay raises. They give themselves levels of pay that CEOs never would have gotten years ago. 
   You know, CEOs used to get about 10 times as much as working people in their companies. Now they give themselves hundreds, if not thousands of times more than the people working in their company. 
   But of course the people in their company can't really push too hard because they can be replaced, many of them, by people from overseas. We can get H1B visas and flood the market with Pakistanis or Indians to do computer work. If our people won't accept 50 or $60,000 we can flood the market with H1B visas and we can make sure that the computer people from our country, you know, that they are going to have to accept lower wages, or we'll give it to the Pakistani or the Indian.     
   That is illegal. What about the legal people who come here who even work for less than that Pakistani or Indian who comes in with an H-B1 visa? 
   These elites who, as I say, live behind closed gates and don't have their kids in public schools, they are doing things that destroy the well-being of their fellow citizens. 
   We see cities that are not only turning a blind eye to illegals, but they are welcoming illegals into our country. Recently, San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom vowed to maintain San Francisco as a ``sanctuary city'' for illegals, and he will do everything he can to provide sanctuary for those illegals. He is discouraging Federal authorities from conducting any immigration raids. Well, in whose interest is this mayor watching out for and the others who talk about these sanctuary cities? There are hundreds of these sanctuary cities across our country. The employers know it. Rental companies know it. The illegals know it. The word is going out all over the world. There are sanctuary cities. If you can make it there, you have got it made. And there will be a treasure of benefits for you as well, and the local government is going to protect you. Well, by proclaiming their moral superiority in protecting illegals, what are they doing? They are in reality committing a monstrous crime not just against the American people but against all those people overseas, perhaps 100 million people now waiting in line overseas to come here legally. They are waiting in line to come here legally, but yet we have got the mayor of San Francisco who is siding with the guys who cut in line in front of those people who are waiting to respect our laws and to come here to be Americans in the legal way. 
   If the people who are here illegally have their status legalized and if we have people protecting those people who are here illegally, what does that tell the millions of people who are waiting overseas? It tells them they had better not wait. They are fools. This mayor of the city of San Francisco isn't protecting illegals. He is actually accosting, actually committing a crime against the people who are waiting in line overseas. He is favoring those people to break the law over those who stand in line and wait to obey the law. He is siding with the lawbreakers rather than siding with those immigrants from overseas who would like to come here and follow our laws. He is not just protecting the unfortunate people of the world. He is siding with that group of people over those unfortunate people who would obey our laws and come here. 
   The prosecution of Ramos and Compean has not gone unnoticed, as  well as the sanctuary cities I am talking about, the actions of the mayor of San Francisco. Yes, couple that with the prosecution of Ramos and Compean, and what we have got is there are good people all over the world as well as some bad people, but good people even who are saying that they can come here now. Let's get to the United States because the United States doesn't have the will to stop us. These are good people, but they will consume our resources that we should have for our own people, and they will depress the wages of the American worker, and they will bring diseases right into our schools that we have a long time ago conquered. And the breakdown of our borders will have been lost not only just to the good people who will flood across and be out of control but to drug dealers who have noticed Ramos and Compean and the Border Patrol agents and also to terrorists. You can bet that the terrorists around the world have noticed the chaos on our southern border. 
   Mr. Speaker, in the coming weeks, Congress will begin debate on the Flake-Gutierrez bill. This flawed bill almost guarantees a legalization of the status from 12 to 15 million illegal immigrants already in the United States. The bill requires illegals to pay fines and sit through English classes in order to claim that it doesn't qualify as an amnesty. However, the 1986 Immigration Reform Act required the exact same thing: a waiting period, fines, mandatory English classes. And no one can deny that that was an amnesty bill. 
   The bottom line is the Flake-Gutierrez bill, if it passes, you can skip the line, skip it totally, all those people waiting in line overseas, and buy your citizenship for a whopping $2,500. Under this legislation right now, illegals who seek amnesty do not have to pay back taxes nor do they have to wait the current 10-year period before re-entry into this country after they have been caught here illegally. Flake-Gutierrez will permit the newly minted residents, legal residents now because they have now been made legal residents, to apply for billions of dollars in public assistance. The Heritage Foundation estimates the fiscal cost to the taxpayers of such an amnesty will be $30 billion a year. Newly legitimized residents, legalized residents, will also receive Social Security benefits based on their work while they have been here illegally. Since most illegal immigrants worked under fake Social Security numbers or stolen ones, it will create unknown costs to the Social Security Administration. 
   And, of course, President Bush has already made a secret agreement with Mexico that we had to dig out of the administration with Freedom of Information requests. That secret agreement was that any new legalization of status will include giving those illegal Mexicans who worked in the United States Social Security benefits for their time when they have worked in the United States, but that has been kept hush hush. 
   By the way, Social Security isn't just a retirement plan. It is also a survivors' benefit. And you can imagine how many morticians from around the world are going to be sending their letter into Social Security, saying somebody worked in your country illegally for this year. He died and please start sending your thousand dollar checks to his children at this address. This is a catastrophe not only in the making. This is a catastrophe that is already before us. This bill could pass and destroy our Social Security system. 
   Perhaps the worst element in this is that, contrary to claims otherwise, the bill does not send illegals back to the back of the line. Currently, there are over 3 million aliens who have already been approved for green cards but are still waiting overseas, waiting for sometimes up to 23 years, to come here legally. Under this bill millions of illegals who claim to have been here illegally since 2006 can keep working legally now in the U.S. and will be eligible for permanent residence. So they will be here legally, and then they can apply for permanent residence in 8 years. People who have played by the rules will still have to wait for their green cards oversees. So why should they wait in line at all? 
   As I say, this is going to give us tens of millions of new illegals pouring into our country, destroying our social infrastructure, our schools, our hospitals, our retirement systems. The last amnesty in 1986 resulted in 15 to 20 million new illegals pouring into our country. This amnesty will give us 50 million or more. The Heritage Foundation estimates that 100 million new people will be here after 10 years as a result of this immigration reform. Wake up, America. We are losing our country. We are being betrayed. Who is representing the interest of the American people? 
   The President has often mentioned the reason most illegals come here is to do work that most Americans won't do. However, Flake-Gutierrez specifically allows employers to lay off Americans and replace them with new foreign workers as long as those Americans were laid off 90 days before they decided to bring the new people in. Employers are also absolved of any form of civil or criminal liability related to the prior employment of illegals. And as long as the incentive to work and benefits exist, illegals will flood into our country. 
   I have been a consistent advocate for tough employer sanctions. Yet Flake-Gutierrez prohibits State and local governments from punishing employers who have hired illegal immigrants or from requiring them to use an employment verification system or from requiring that that system be used to verify the legal status of renters or public benefits applicants or people who are undergoing background checks.     
   It dramatically reduces the civil penalties for employers who knowingly hire or continue to employ illegals, or who fail to comply with the employment verification system already approved by the last Congress. As a matter of fact, section 301 of the bill, employers can avoid using the verification system altogether simply by saying they are hiring private contractors. 
   This legislation is tantamount to the surrender of America's ability to control our territory from any foreigner who wants to come here. It is an immigration catastrophe, a nightmare for America's most vulnerable, our vulnerable middle class, a nightmare. Frighteningly, President Bush is supportive, as are many corporate-minded Republicans, and almost every Democrat that I know, although there are a few, hopefully, coming over to our side who understand how this is hurting their constituents. As I say, a handful of Democrats have signed on to the bill to pardon Ramos and Compean. 
   But by and large, the Republican leadership, the President, the Democratic leadership, the Democratic Party and most Members of Congress are in favor of this type of ``comprehensive bill'' and have not been helpful in saving Ramos and Compean. 
   Who is watching out for the American people? Well, it is up to us, the United States. And what we can do is make sure that everyone talks to their representative and talks to their Senator, and does so aggressively, not in a low voice, but in an aggressive voice because you're protecting your families and your children and you're protecting your country in the future. 
   We are up against a powerful political coalition. They are using examples saying, oh, we need these illegal aliens to work; there are jobs Americans won't take. There are jobs that Americans won't take at the pay level that these big businessmen want to give them. And don't tell me that if we paid janitors more money, that we can't find people to be janitors. I was a janitor years ago. You go back, and janitors are making the same amount of money as I made when I was a janitor 40 years ago, yet the income of our country, the GNP, has quadrupled. They have been left out because a horde of illegals have come into this country and bid down their wages. 
   Now, why is it that people who are janitors or people who work with their hands, people who work in regular middle-class jobs shouldn't be able to enjoy the fruits of our country, that their wages should be depressed, they should be frozen out of having a better living for their family? Then they say, well, there are jobs they won't even do, like picking fruits and vegetables. We've got more people between the ages of 18 and 40, young, healthy men housed in prisons in the middle of our agricultural areas who could profit by working. They could earn enough money to pay for their own incarceration and  pay for a little restitution. But those ideas are too creative. No, no, no. Instead, let's just bring the illegals across, that will keep everybody's wages down and we can control them and they will be off the chart. 
   Well, let me suggest this; we've been given a false dichotomy saying that we have to offer a legalization status, an amnesty, or we have to have massive deportations. It's either legalization or deportation. That is the most serious of all of the lies that are being told today about immigration because that is not true. We do have an alternative; there is an alternative to just deporting. We don't want to have sweeps of law enforcement through foreign neighborhoods, but we can just make sure that we have ID cards, we have Social Security cards, that we have ID cards that can't be tampered with so we can prove who we are dealing with. We can have a verification system so that employers will know who they're employing and we can hold those employers accountable. And we can also make sure that illegals who don't have the benefits cards, these identities that show they are eligible, cannot get the health care, the education, the housing, the Social Security and retirement benefits that are due to American citizens and people who are here legally. 
   If we do not give the jobs and the benefits to people who are here illegally, they will go home. Just as soon as you give it to them, they will come. If you don't give it to them and they find trouble earning a living, supporting their families, they will go home. It's called attrition. That is the decision we have to make. Creating a false dichotomy, saying it's either going to be legalization or deportation, that's the type of word game that is unfair in this debate. It's just like calling amnesty something that it isn't, saying that this is not an amnesty when it clearly is. 
   We must be able to say no to people who are using the scarce resources that are meant for our people. These resources belong to the American people, whether it is our education establishment, our health care, job training, housing, retirement benefits, these are things that belong to the American people. We must protect the interests of our people and say no to people who would consume those things that are meant for our own people. 
   This is not mean-spirited selfishness. And probably that is the greatest debate of all, because people are playing on it as if we're trying to push us into letting more and more illegals come in here and destroying our system, like just to say, if you try to stop it, you're being mean-spirited and nasty. Americans don't like that. Americans don't like it at all, of course they don't. We are as generous as any people in the world. But it is not selfish to take care of your own family. It is not selfish to take care of your own community. It is not selfish to take care of your own country before you expend the resources and take care of people elsewhere in the world. It is not selfish, it is being responsible. 
   And we, as representatives of the people of the United States, owe it to the people of the United States to be watching out for them, watching out for their interests. If we don't do it, no one is going to watch out for the interests of our people. I am afraid that tonight it's up to us, the people. Either we will speak out; we will rise with a righteous rage and oppose this immigration travesty that is about to be foisted upon us or we will suffer grave consequences. Within 10 years, our country will have been lost. Ten, 20, 30, 40, 100 million new people here, some of them terrorists, some of them criminals, most of them good people, but still, people who don't deserve to be consuming those resources that we have built and saved and created for our own people. 
   So with that, I close and ask the American people to wake up and pay attention. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (LIMITING USE OF FUNDS TO ESTABLISH ANY MILITARY INSTALLATION OR BASE IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - July 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution. 
   Let me note, I have all along argued, and I think the people on our side of the aisle have argued, that we are not in Iraq in order to have permanent bases or any other such thing. American efforts in Iraq have been totally based on benevolent and noble motives, and I would hope that this is well-understood and appreciated by the people of Iraq themselves. 
   The fact is that there is some confusion because, during the public debate on what American foreign policy should be, far too often we have heard in the hype of emotions the charges, even from people in this body, that America is being imperialistic. I mean, that word ``imperialism'' has actually sprung up in several hearings that I've been at as a Member of Congress. That is an insult to American military personnel. We can honestly disagree about what's going on in Iraq without having to debase the people of the United States of America by claiming we're imperialists like the former empires in Russia and Germany, et cetera. 
   No, I think we've been benevolent from the beginning. Our people wanted to come in, to liberate Iraq from a bloody tyrant who slaughtered hundreds of thousands of his own people. We came there to help the people of Iraq and hopefully establish a democratic government. Now, whether or not we succeed or not, I'm not sure. I would hope the majority of people in Iraq appreciate that, and today, we are reaffirming to them we are not there to have any permanent presence. 
   I, in fact, will be proposing legislation this coming week which suggests, as a sense of the House, and I would ask the Speaker of the House to be aware of this, that we need to have a sense of the House resolution calling on the Iraqi Government to have a referendum of whether they want the American troops that are there today to begin an immediate withdrawal or whether they would like American troops to stay there until order has been restored and order has been brought to the people of Iraq. I think that if the Iraqi people vote that we should have an immediate withdrawal, we should go. We should go. But if the people of Iraq decide they appreciate and want us to be there to help them fight off radical Islamists and others who would impose their brand of dictatorship on the people of Iraq, well, then, perhaps we should take into consideration that the Iraqi people want us there. 
   So I will be proposing legislation later on in the week calling for this referendum, and in the meantime, let us reaffirm with this legislation that it had never been the intent of the United  States of America to use Iraq as a permanent base for America's military presence in that region. 
   I thank you very much for your leadership, Madam Speaker. Thank you for your leadership in this, and I appreciate you are an activist. Since I've been in this Congress, you have always been an activist, and we have been on the same side in that activism. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of the Hinchey-Rohrabacher amendment, which would prohibit any funds made available in this act to be used to prevent implementation of legally passed State laws in those 12 States that have authorized the use of marijuana for medical purposes. 
   The Founding Fathers wanted criminal law to be the domain of local and State governments. Sick and infirm people who live in the 12 States that have been granted by the voters in these States the legal right to use marijuana to alleviate their suffering if a doctor agrees, we should not make them targets of prosecution. If the voters in a State have so voted, and a doctor agrees, it is a travesty for the Federal Government to waste scarce Federal resources to harass sick people, elderly cancer patients and frail, multiple sclerosis sufferers and prevent them from getting the relief their personal doctors have recommended. 
   We have heard here hysterical talk about how voting for this amendment will somehow prevent the Federal Government from being able to go after narcotics traffickers. That is nonsense. The DEA would still have the power to arrest anyone selling marijuana for recreational use, as well as anyone selling cocaine or any other drugs. After all, although related to opium, yes, and even heroin, morphine is already used legally in hospitals throughout the United States. That does not mean that we are going to open up the whole country to heroin because we allow hospitals to use morphine. 
   Whether morphine or marijuana, the fact is that Federal resources could be better used and shouldn't be wasted on arresting sick people or their doctors. Those Federal resources, if this amendment passes, can be redirected away from these people, but to major drug traffickers or crime syndicates. That makes a lot more sense than trying to stop somebody or arrest somebody who has a doctor's prescription because they are suffering from cancer treatment. It makes more sense to focus on the drug dealers, for Pete's sake. 
   Here in the House there is a wide coalition of Republicans and Democrats, conservatives and liberals, and this number has grown year by year, who want to promote State autonomy on this issue. This is what the Founding Fathers wanted. Criminal matters should be left up to the States. 
   A vote ``yes'' on Hinchey-Rohrabacher is a vote to respect the intent of our Founding Fathers and respect the rights of our people at the State level to make the criminal law under which they and their families will live. It reinforces rules surrounding the patient-doctor relationship, and it is in contrast to emotional posturing and Federal power grabs and bureaucratic arrogance, which is really at the heart of the opposition. 
   This is a vote for good government. This is a good vote for honest compassion. The legal, humanitarian and practical thing to do is to vote ``yes'' on this amendment. 
   Let me just note this. I have had personal experiences on this, and I certainly respect Dr. Weldon and his opinion. And I have asked him for his opinion many times for problems of my own. But I lost my mother, and I recently lost my brother, to cancer. I will tell you in both cases there was a loss of appetite and just a pessimism that came over my mother and my brother both. If marijuana would have helped them, and if a doctor would have prescribed it for them, it would have been a horrible thing to think that Federal agents would come in and try to interfere with that so they would not be able to get marijuana, if that is what their doctor felt would have helped them. 
   That is what we are deciding today: Is that a right use of resources, number one, to go in and interfere with this doctor-patient relationship? They already use morphine in hospitals. That doesn't interfere with people trying to get control of the sale of heroin on our streets. No, this will not interfere with that. But what this will do is prevent a terrible waste of Federal resources. 
   And let us note again, if people are sick, and a doctor says yes, this would be a good treatment, I don't think our Founding Fathers, who wanted the State governments to make these criminal laws, but I don't even think that they would have wanted the State governments to interfere in such a relationship. 
   Our Founding Fathers believed in individual freedom, and they believed in limited government. Where else but in the doctor-patient relationship should we have a limit on the government coming in and making things criminal matters? I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the Hinchey-Rohrabacher amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chairman, the Ramos and Compean prosecution has been the greatest miscarriage of justice in my 30 years in Washington, DC, and, believe me, I have seen a lot. 
   Ramos and Compean were veteran Border Patrol agents. They had unblemished records. They had both served in the military. Ramos and Compean were veterans of the Border Patrol, 5 and 10 years, respectively. Both had been in the military. In fact, Mr. Ramos, I believe, had been a 10-year veteran. He was a naval officer in the Navy Reserve for 10 years. Ramos had been nominated the year before as Border Patrol Agent of the Year. 
   Yet these two agents, their lives have been destroyed, and they have been vilified by Department of Justice officials and this administration. One day 2 years ago, they interdicted a drug dealer. After a scuffle ensued, the drug dealer ran toward the border, shots were fired, the drug dealer was shot in the buttocks. At the end of this incident that took place in just a few minutes, where a split-second decision was made to shoot their weapons, they decided that he had gotten away. They didn't know that the drug dealer had been hit. 
   There is where they made their mistake. They decided to not go through the 8 hours of arduous drudgery of filling out all of the reports that are necessary, the paperwork that is necessary when there is a shooting incident. So they and their supervisors, I might add, helped collect the little shell casings and determined, well, the guy didn't get hit, we will just forget it. 
   Well, that was a violation of procedure, yes. For that they might have deserved a suspension. Instead, this administration chose to throw the book at these men and turn what should have been just a violation of procedure, perhaps just a paperwork mistake, which sometimes happens even here in this body, they turned that into a felony. 
   They have destroyed the lives of these two defenders of our country who have spent 5 and 10 years of their lives willing to take bullets for us on the border. But our administration, this administration, decided to throw the book at them and give a free pass to the drug dealer, to the man who is bringing in $1 million worth of narcotics into our country. 
   That decision is so indefensible that I believe that the administration has been trying to cover up for that mistaken decision since that moment. What we have had, for those of us who have been looking into this, is we have been completely stonewalled by this administration, by the Department of Justice, by U.S. Attorney Johnny Sutton in trying to get the information about the drug dealer and the free passes, the free passes that he had to transit into our country unescorted after this incident. 
   The fact of the matter is that the jury was told that the drug dealer involved was a one-timer who was trying to raise money so he could buy medicine for his mother, his sick mother. That was a lie that was presented to the jury, a lie. 
   Let me repeat that. It was not true, and the prosecutors understood they were given something not true. In fact, we were told by the U.S. attorney, Johnny Sutton, well, the fact that the information that the drug dealer had been picked up a second time before that trial was kept from the jury, but that the judge was the one who decided that.     
   That too is a lie. A lawyer may believe that, but the fact is we know the prosecutors were the ones who demanded the judge. It was their motion to keep that from the jury. 
   So why do we have an administration that feels so intent on destroying the lives of these two Border Patrol agents that they vilified them, that they keep information from the jury? This whole thing stinks to high heaven and the smell seems to be emanating from the White House. 
   Ladies and gentlemen, these are two people, two men, two brave heroes who were defending our country every bit as much as those men and women who are overseas right now defending our country. They were willing to risk their lives for us. We should not sit aside and let them languish in prison as their families go down into abject poverty without any health care, without any source of income. Their retirement benefits are destroyed. This is  the most mean-spirited, nasty attack on some of the defenders of our country that I have ever seen in my lifetime. We cannot let it sit. If we are patriotic Americans, it doesn't go to just posture ourselves with the defenders of this country and then let these two men languish in prison. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chairman, I would ask my colleagues to search their hearts. We can do something about this. 
   You know, first of all, it has been a dismay to me to see how we have treated each other in this body. I don't know why, but people are looking to bring down each other because people disagree. We can understand that with philosophical differences, but how can we ever justify someone who has gone out of their way, our representatives in the Department of Justice going out of their way to bring down two defenders, turning a paperwork mistake, a procedural error, into a felony which has destroyed these men's lives. 
   If we stand up for Ramos and Compean, we stand up for the people of the United States. They know that; they are watching us. They know if we really care about the little guy, and that is what this is all about. We care about the little guy because that is what America is all about. 
   I support the amendment and ask my colleagues to join me in doing so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (OUR SOUTHERN BORDER -- (House of Representatives - March 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, today I discuss a black mark on this administration. And while I realize this is the fourth anniversary, and I have enjoyed the comments of colleagues, comments with which I may have some disagreement, I would like to discuss another issue. Because no matter what we do in Iraq, one way or the other, whether we succeed there or not, if our southern borders are not secure, if the southern borders are open to an invasion of illegal immigrants and open to an invasion of our country by terrorists and others who would do us harm and drug dealers and drug cartels, America is in great jeopardy. So no matter what is happening overseas, and I would grant you that the President may have made some mistakes and he may well have been well motivated, but his motives in determining the policy of what is happening at our southern borders is not what is in question. It is his actions. And what we have today is a dangerous threat to the safety of our people, the security of our country at our southern border.     
   Today I discuss a black mark on this administration in terms of the security of our country, a vile crime which has been committed against two law enforcement officers whose job it has been to protect our families and our communities by keeping control of America's borders. The sad episode started back on February 17, 2005, just another routine day for Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. Both were Border Patrol veterans with unblemished service records. Agent Ramos, in fact, had been nominated for Border Patrol Agent of the Year. 
   As they made their rounds that day 2 years ago, they checked on a tripped sensor near the border. Agent Compean discovered footprints and drag marks, the usual indication of a drug load being smuggled across the river. He spotted a vehicle, then radioed in the description and followed the suspect. The suspect realized that he had been spotted and turned around to rush back towards Mexico. Agent Ramos then observed the van driving at a very high rate of speed, and, after the driver ignored commands to pull over, Ramos gave chase. 
   By the way, according to the prosecuting attorney, pursuing a fleeing suspect without a supervisor's permission is against the Border Patrol policy. Now, get this. We are being told that just pursuing someone who has come across the border in a vehicle, without permission of a supervisor, is an illegal act, is against the rules for our Border Patrol agents. Whoever made that rule up? I wonder if the drug smugglers and the terrorists know about that rule? 
   The drug smuggler, then, in this particular instance, abandoned his vehicle and fled towards Mexico on foot, but he was intercepted by one of the agents, Agent Compean. Once again, ignoring several commands by Agent Compean to stop, a physical altercation ensued, with Compean ending up in the ditch. 
   Seeing his opportunity, the smuggler ran toward the border. According to Agent Compean's sworn statement, while running, the suspect turned and pointed something shiny with his left hand. Believing that his life was in danger, Agent Compean opens fire. Now, how long do you have to determine whether that is a gun in the man's hand as he runs away and aims something at you? 
   Hearing the gunshots, Agent Ramos came to the aid of his fellow officer. He, too, shouted for the smuggler to stop, but instead of obeying his command, the illegal drug smuggler once again turned and ran and, as he was running, again turned and pointed something shiny at Ramos, who at that moment shot his weapon once. 
   After disappearing into the banks of the Rio Grande, the smuggler reappeared on the Mexican side where he jumped into a waiting van, which was waiting for him. Obviously, an organized situation. 
   Unbeknownst to Officers Ramos and Compean, a bullet hit the illegal drug smuggler in the left buttocks. Other agents, including two supervisors, were nearby and could not see what was going on, but we have every reason to understand they heard the shots because they were that close. 
   When the abandoned van was examined, 743 pounds of marijuana were found. The payload was seized, and one would think that congratulations were in order. After all, Ramos and Compean were heroes, weren't they? They had been responsible for taking off the street $1 million worth of drugs bound for our communities. Good job, fellas, right? No. Wrong. Agents Ramos and Compean, not the illegal drug smuggler, are at this moment languishing in Federal prison, serving 11- to 12-year sentences, and, in fact, they are in solitary confinement. 
   This is the worst miscarriage of justice that I have seen in my 25 years of public service. It is a nightmare for the two Border Patrol agents who willingly risked their lives protecting us for 5 and 10 years. For their families, this is a hellish and destructive nightmare. They are losing everything. 
   And just today the Compean family was sent a letter signed by Attorney General Johnny Sutton, who prosecuted their loved one, their husband, asking for them to pay court costs of $2,800 while their husband has been sent away to prison and their family is being condemned to destitution, losing their health insurance, and then they get a letter asking for them to pay the court costs. I would offer this up for the Record. 
   U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, 
   U.S. ATTORNEY'S OFFICE, 
   San Antonio, TX, March 14, 2007. Re $2,800.00 and penalties and costs; Court No. EP05CR856(2); Judgment Date: October 23, 2006, USAO #2007Z00182/001 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (THE BUSH-KENNEDY AMNESTY BILL -- (House of Representatives - June 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, it was a great victory for the American people when the Bush-Kennedy amnesty bill was withdrawn from consideration in the Senate 2 weeks ago with such a stinging rebuke from the voters, because we understand that the voters had contacted their elected Representatives in such number that the bill was no longer tenable. After that rebuke from the voters, one would think that the White House and the congressional leadership would have listened to the American people and concentrated on securing our borders and moving forward with those activities to secure our country, and forget about legalizing the status of 15 to 20 million people who are in our country illegally. Well, how wrong we were. Like a bad horror movie, the monster you thought had been killed is somehow being brought back to life. It's rearing its ugly head again in the sequel. Well, here it is, Nightmare on North Capitol Street, part two, starring the Bush-Kennedy amnesty bill. This time we need to drive a stake into the heart of this monstrous threat to the American people. 
   And what threat am I talking about? It is about time that the Washington elite and the elite of America's business community understand what impact this massive flow of immigration into our society has had on the life of the American people. 
   What we face in California and now throughout the country is a disintegration of our education system. Our schools, for which our children are dependent on their education and the future of their lives, are being diminished in terms of their capability of educating our children because there is a massive influx of children into our school systems, children who should not even be in this country. 
   We have a health care system that is in crisis. Today, we see in California and we see in other States as well the closing of emergency rooms. So American citizens whose children are out on the highways, if there is an accident, may now not be able to go to emergency rooms to get treated, to have their lives saved, where only a few short years ago, maybe 10 or 15 years ago, there was an emergency room to service that. 
   Why are these emergency rooms closing? Why is the health care system in our country breaking down? This massive influx of immigrants, illegal immigrants, into our society. In fact, many people today are not able to pay for their health care insurance. And why is health care so high? One of the major reasons health care insurance is so high is when American citizens go to hospitals in order to be treated, their health care policy, which is massively expensive, also has to take care of those people who have no health care insurance, many of whom, a large number of whom are of course illegal immigrants. 
   And what about our criminal justice system? Our criminal justice system in California is breaking down. It's being crowded to the point where if someone does commit a misdemeanor or a crime, even a violent crime at times, they are let out on bond or sometimes they are let out on their own recognizance because there is no place to put them. These criminals, many of whom have come here illegally into our country, end up coming here because they know the punishment here is nothing as compared to the countries from which they are coming from. 
   Our criminal justice system is not protecting our citizens. If someone in your family is raped or murdered or robbed or run down by a drunk driver, well, now it is highly likely that, or I should say that the chances are very good that the person who is victimizing our family is here illegally and should never be in the country in the first place. 
   And what about the wages of ordinary Americans? Ordinary Americans now find that, yes, when they get out of school, they expect to get good jobs and good paying jobs. But, no. What we have is, with the massive influx of people into our country who will work far below the wages that Americans will work for, they have bid down the wages of our people. Now, that may not mean too much to the top 10 percent or the elite of the business community, but that means everything, everything, to ordinary Americans who are struggling to make ends meet. Our elite has not been hurt, our elite has not been victimized, but ordinary Americans find themselves not being able to get the paying jobs that will help them pay what is necessary to be in a middle-class existence in this country.     
   At the same time, unfortunately, we see an unfortunate trend among corporate executives, especially among the CEOs of companies, in paying themselves 10, 20, 30, even $100 million in compensation at the same time that the wage level of average Americans is under attack by a massive influx of illegals which is supported by the business elite. 
   Whose side is our government on? Is it on the side of the business elite that is willing to lay their own workers off, giving themselves huge salaries, and then bringing on illegals or sending their manufacturing to China so that slave labor can do the job and then giving themselves huge corporate salaries? Are we on the side of people who are coming here from other countries who, yes, they are benefited by coming here at the expense of ordinary Americans? 
   It is no mistake that this is happening. All of these dire consequences that are going on is not something that just happened. It was not something that was unavoidable. What is happening is a product of bad policy, policy that is not something that has been a mistake in policy, but an intentional policy that has been in place for 20 years. 
   We now have 15 to 20 million illegal immigrants in our country. And that is not just something that happened. It happened because it was planned by those people who are making the policy in the last 20 years, people who were paying attention to the corporate elite, who want to bid down wages, and also to the liberal left wing of the Democratic Party which controls the Democratic Party who think that with huge numbers of immigrants coming into our country, they can change America. 
   Neither one of those two groups of people who have such enormous influence in the Capitol of the United States are representing or watching out for the American people. 
   Well, what we have done is given rewards to those people who have come here illegally. And then we wonder why they come here. They say, ``Give it and they will come.'' Well, there is no doubt about it; we give a reward to people who live in poverty, abject poverty, in different countries. If we let them know they can have education benefits that should be going to Americans, but they now can get them for their children; if they know their children and their families will be given health care and health treatment with money that should be going to Americans; if they know that if they break the law that the penalties they face here are actually much lower than in the countries they are in; and if they know even if they are caught crossing our border and caught here illegally, they will not be punished, why wouldn't they come here? 
   This is not something that was unpredictable. We have 15 to 20 million people bidding down our wages, destroying our education system, destroying our health care system, making our streets and our communities not safe for our own families; and their presence here was not a mistake. It was planned out. Because people knew that if we give the benefits of jobs, good jobs, and the benefits that I just described that should be going to Americans, that people will come here from other countries. 
   No border protection will stop the massive flow of illegal immigrants into our country if we continue to give huge rewards, a treasure house of rewards, to those people who are coming here. Don't say that you want to strengthen the border because you really are serious about trying to stop illegal immigration if you are unwilling to cut off the benefits that are the lure, which are the magnet that bring people here. 
   Of course, there are those who claim that, who would like to say, well, yes, we really are concerned about this, and we're going to strengthen the Border Patrol. Let's just note that the Kennedy-Bush amnesty bill that was in the Senate suggested that they were going to strengthen the Border Patrol enforcement and enforcement mechanisms. Yet, everything in that bill that  dealt with enforcement; strengthening the Border Patrol, strengthening the fence, strengthening the ability of employers to be held accountable if they hire illegals; all of those things are already law but have not been enforced. 
   In fact, it is even worse that they haven't been enforced. This administration has actually undermined the effort to try to enforce the laws against illegal immigration, and they have done everything they can. While the bill suggests they want to strengthen them, and the President has had his picture taken many times on the border with Border Patrol agents saying how important they are, yet there has been no other administration that has so demoralized and attacks our Border Patrol agents in doing their duty. 
   By now, most Americans understand that there are two Border Patrol agents that are languishing in prison as I give this speech. But there are many such Border Patrol agents, there are many such law enforcement officers, who this administration has thrown the book at in order to send a message to those law enforcement officers and those Border Patrol agents who are there on the border trying to deflect this massive invasion from our southern border, and this administration has thrown the book at them if they make any mistake. A police officer who makes a mistake, a Border Patrol officer who makes a mistake, now understands that he or she will be prosecuted to the extent of the law, and the benefit of the doubt will be given to the illegal alien, even if the illegal alien is a criminal involved in such things as drug smuggling. 
   What of course is brought to mind is the case of Ramos and Compean. As I speak today, Ramos and Compean languish in Federal penitentiaries, where they have been held for 133 days in solitary confinement. 
   Mr. and Mrs. America, do you understand that the people who went out there to protect our families have been prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law, while a drug dealer who they were trying to stop was given immunity in order to convict them of mistakes? And those mistakes were turned into what? Into felonies by this administration. 
   Johnny Sutton, who is the U.S. attorney, has a long-time relationship with our President. One might even call him a crony, or some might call him a member of the Bush family in that sense, that he has been with him for a long time. He is a protege of our President. This man determined that Ramos and Compean would be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law and that the drug dealer that they stopped on the Mexican-American border would be granted immunity and that his word would be taken over the word of the Border Patrol agents. 
   What happened was that 2 years ago, these two Border Patrol agents who have unblemished records, these two Border Patrol agents who have 15 years of experience at the Border Patrol between them and a pristine on-the-job record, both of them U.S. military veterans, one of them a 10-year veteran of the Naval Reserves, these men were on the job and they saw a truck that had clearly come across the border. They tried to stop it. The man in the truck ran out. They intercepted him. A scuffle ensued. The man then, after being involved in a physical altercation with a police officer, began to run toward the border. 
   His version is they immediately shot him in the back. Of course, the U.S. attorney has repeated over and over again the lie that two U.S. Border Patrol agents shot a man in the back as he was running away. How many times have we heard Mr. Sutton say that? And then he also insinuated that the two Border Patrol agents are corrupt, using the word ``corrupt.'' 
   This administration has backed up their prosecutor who used that rhetoric, who threw the book at the Border Patrol agents, even though the Border Patrol agents suggested there had been a physical altercation; that the man who was actually involved with them at that moment trying to smuggle $1 million worth of drugs into our country was turning, and the two Border Patrol agents suggested they thought they saw him turning with an object in his hand. The seconds were passing just like this. What do you think when you see someone who is trying to smuggle things across the border? You assume they are armed. 
   The Border Patrol agents, Ramos and Compean, shot at him, thinking that he was armed, and he got away. They didn't know if they had hit him or not. Well, the U.S. attorney took the word of the drug dealer that he didn't have a gun. 
   Now, first of all, how do we know that the drug dealer didn't have a gun? He had $1 million worth of drugs. Was he thus trying to smuggle all those very expensive drugs, was he trying to do this unarmed? Is that what the drug cartel does? No. If you have got a valuable shipment, generally the Border Patrol agents understand that people who are smuggling drugs are armed because they have something of great value. Their drugs were worth $1 million in this case. Should we assume that this man had a gun? I think that was a logical assumption. 
   What is more important is the only word that we have that he didn't have a gun was that the drug smuggler himself made that claim. Should we believe the drug smuggler over the two Border Patrol agents? That is what our prosecutor did. 
   That is the policy of this administration. This administration gave total immunity to the drug dealer and threw the book at the Border Patrol agents, who have risked their lives to protect our families. If they had been stopping a terrorist who had a truckload of nuclear material, a dirty bomb aimed at El Paso or some other city, these two Border Patrol agents would have been heralded as heroes. Instead, it was a Mexican, instead of an Arab terrorist, and the Mexican drug dealer was given immunity, and the Border Patrol agents are now languishing in prison, having been charged with attempted murder. 
   The jury in that trial, by the way, was lied to. They were told that the drug dealer had never done this before, even though newspaper accounts suggest that his family said he had been hauling drugs for a long time, since he was 14 years old, and that he indeed carried a gun many times when he was smuggling drugs. 
   This administration decided that they were going to prosecute not only the Border Patrol agents, but they were going to lie to the jury and portray the drug dealer as this is the only time he ever did it, and, guess what? He only did it because he needed to make money for his sick mother's medicine. That type of tripe was allowed to be told to the jury. 
   And let us note that three of the jurors after this was over broke down in tears when they were told that they could have actually voted not guilty, the foreman of their jury told them that if the majority voted guilty, they had to vote guilty. 
   Johnny Sutton, our U.S. Attorney, claims that he didn't have a choice. He did have a choice, and it reflects on this administration, and that choice was to prosecute our defenders and give the benefit of the doubt and immunity to a Mexican drug dealer. He had a choice of who to prosecute. 
   They also had a choice of whether they were going to tell the jury that this same drug dealer had been fingered for a second drug shipment, even after the Ramos-Compean incident, before they went to trial. But that was kept from the jury as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (AMERICAN PATENT LAW -- (House of Representatives - September 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, let me just note for my colleague who just finished his very, very appropriate remarks concerning the passing of Jennifer Dunn, I have three children at home, little Tristen and Anika and Christian; and as a parent, I am very grateful to Jennifer Dunn for the leadership that she provided in helping make our country safer for our children, the children that we all love so much. 
   And when we talk about the future and I think about my children, we have to think that whatever we do here, we are creating a better world, and it is a better world for our children because they are going to be around a lot longer than we are. 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, on Friday the House will consider legislation that will have a huge impact on the well-being of the American people and, yes, the well-being of America's children as they get older. Yet this bill will have a great deal to do with whether or not our children have good jobs and live in a secure country. 
   This bill is receiving very little attention. Very powerful interest groups are trying to sneak this one by us, and if they succeed, they will be enriched and the American people will be worse off. 
   So what's new? Well, what's new is that this special interest foray is not aimed at just adding an earmark or changing a clause in the tax law to help a specific company. It is a maneuver to dramatically diminish a constitutionally protected right that has served our Nation well. It is a fundamental change in a system that has been in place since our country's founding. That is a lot different than the special interest forays in the past just aimed at changing little elements of the law for their own benefit. 
   We are talking about fundamentally altering America's patent system. Now, if H.R. 1908, the bill in question, passes, there will be tremendous negative long-term consequences not just for America's inventors but for the country. 
   Now, patent law is thought to be so complicated and so esoteric that most people tune out once they realize that that is the subject of a discussion. We have probably lost people right now who are reading the Congressional Record or watching C-SPAN or our colleagues who are watching this from their offices. But the technology that we are talking about is vitally important to the well-being of our country. Patent law is not so complicated and esoteric because it is that vital to the well-being of our country. Our technological genius and the laws protecting and promoting that genius have been at the heart of America's success as a Nation. 
   America's technological edge has made American workers competitive with low-priced laborers overseas. It has provided the American people with the highest standard of living in the world, and it enabled our country to sail safely through the troubled waters of world wars and international threats. It is American technology that has made all the difference for our country's security and our people's quality of life. 
   Protecting individual rights, even for the little guy, has been the hallmark of our Nation. Patent rights, the right to one's own creation, which is what we are talking about when we talk about patent rights, have been considered a fundamental part of our system since our country's founding. In fact, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, George Washington, and others of our Founding Fathers were not the only people who believed in freedom and democracy. They believed in technology and progress. 
   Visit Monticello and see what Thomas Jefferson did with his time after he penned the words to the Declaration of Independence and after he served as President of the United States. He went back to Monticello and spent his time inventing gadgets and pieces of equipment that would lift the burden from the shoulders of labor. And, by the way, Jefferson was America's first Patent Commissioner. 
   And then there is Ben Franklin, the inventor of the bifocal and the potbellied stove. Before Benjamin Franklin people could only heat themselves at a fireplace and project heat in a room only from a fireplace. And Benjamin Franklin invented the potbellied stove, which started the whole concept of modern heating. This grand old man, who was present at the Declaration of Independence and the writing of our Constitution, once lamented his own death not by talking about the fear of the unknown and dying but by lamenting that he would not be able to see the great human progress that was bound to happen, the technological advances that would be the byproduct of a free people in the United States of America. 
   Our Founding Fathers believed that with freedom and 
   with technology, we could increase the standard of living of all our people, not just the elite. Our founders were visionaries, not just about political structures but about a way of life for ordinary people and the future of humankind. Those patriots who laid the foundation of our country wrote into the Constitution a provision they firmly believed was a prerequisite to progress and freedom. 
   Now, last night after I gave a similar speech on the floor, a teacher, a so-called teacher of history, called my office to complain, ``There is nothing about copyrights or patents in our Constitution.'' I don't know how long he has been a teacher. He said he has been teaching 20 years. But my staff member took out a copy of the Constitution and read to him article I, section 8 of the Constitution, which states in part: ``Congress shall have the power to promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries.'' They held the right of owning one's ideas and creations and inventions as equal to the rights of speech, religion, and assembly. In fact, in the body of the Constitution before the Bill of Rights, the word ``right'' is only used in reference to patents and copyrights. So that shows you the priority that our Founding Fathers placed on the technological development that would create the dream of America that they felt that they were establishing here on this continent. 
   In short, we have had the strongest patent protection in the world, and that is why in the history of mankind there has never been a more innovative and creative people. And it has been no accident that Americans are the world's great inventors, scientists, and technologists. No, it is not just the diversity of our people, but diversity certainly plays a role and we can be proud of that and it has contributed to our capabilities. It wasn't just our natural resources, although we were blessed with vast territory and natural resources. Our innovation and progress can be traced to our law from the very beginning. It was the intent of those who wrote these protections into our fundamental law, into the Constitution in those earliest days of our Republic, and it was their vision of optimism that motivated them to write this into the law. Our history is filled with stories of technological achievement that flowed from the fact that we had established a country that thought that the rights of ownership of what you create is just as important as your right to speak or the right to worship God as you so choose. 
   We found people who emerged among us, Eli Whitney, for example, who not only invented the cotton gin but who invented the interchangeable parts for manufacturing. This revolutionized industrial production and dramatically uplifted the well-being of millions of people and, yes, people who were yet to be born. 
   Cyrus McCormick invented the reaper. Before that the food supply for our  people was limited. People went to bed hungry, large numbers. Cyrus McCormick invented a reaper that made sure that every person would have bread enough to eat, that children would be fed. 
   Samuel Morse invented the telegraph, which eventually led, of course, to the telephone and revolutionized a whole idea of communications throughout the world. Thomas Edison, the light bulb and so many other inventions. 
   Interestingly, black Americans were prolific inventors even at times when they were terribly discriminated against because patent law was one law that was justly applied to them for the most part, although there were issues of discrimination even in that area. But compared to the other areas where they were totally discriminated against, there was some leeway in our society. And black inventors emerged, as is predictable, because that was their avenue to rise up. Men like Jan Matzeliger, who invented a machine that was used in shoe manufacturing that dramatically changed the shoe industry to the point that the average person after Matzeliger's invention could afford to have more than one pair of shoes in his life.     
   Before that they were so expensive, people had one pair of shoes that they repaired for the rest of their lives. 
   George Washington Carver, another great black inventor, a great scholar, a world-respected scientist, and so many more like him. We are proud that our history advanced technologies because we know, as Americans, as we have always known, that through our country's history, that the inventions that we're talking about produced more wealth with less labor, thus increased the standard of living of all people and the opportunity for all people who are part of our country's brotherhood and sisterhood to share in the benefits, in the fruits of this free society. 
   And yes, we have had problems in the past and there was discrimination against black Americans, obviously. Slavery was a blight on our system, a sin. But as we have tried to produce more wealth, and the more wealth that has been produced and the more opportunity that's been available, the easier it's been for our society to try to correct those terrible crimes and sins of the past. And black Americans have done their share, more than their share, in producing these inventions that have helped our country. 
   By and large, the inventors were not part of large corporate structures. They were, by and large, little guys, people who didn't have vast companies behind them, which leads us, of course, to the Wright brothers. 
   We remember the Wright brothers, men with little education that worked in a bicycle shop. They owned a bicycle shop and ended up inventing something a little more than 100 years ago that they were told was impossible to invent, impossible to build by the experts. They had no huge corporate structures behind them, so thus they didn't have a board of directors that prohibited them from their research or directed them in a way that would have prevented them from being successful. They went forward, they invested their time, and they invested their limited resources. And they changed the future of humankind forever as they took mankind's feet off the ground and put us on the road to the heavens. The patent issued to the Wright brothers is perhaps one of the most significant documents in the history of all mankind. 
   Let us understand that it was not raw muscle nor was it just hard work that built our country. People work hard all over the world and live in abject poverty. It is not our vast territory or natural resources. It was, instead, our ingenuity, our intelligence, and yes, the legal system that was established to protect that ingenuity and the intelligence and the creativity of our people. 
   We treated intellectual property, the creation of new technologies, as we treated property and personal rights and political rights. They were held in the same esteem in the United States of America. And that is what America is all about, that every person's rights were to be respected and protected. As I say, we didn't always live up to that dream, but it was our standard. We held those high standards and it served us well. Now we have people trying to undermine those standards for personal gain. 
   Today we face a great historic challenge, and this challenge comes exactly at a time when our country faces economic threats from abroad as never before. We must prevail over our economic competitors. They are at war with the well-being of the American people. We must win, or our country and our people will lose. My children, Anika, Tristen and Christian, they will lose. Your children, all of our children will have worse lives in the future if we lose this battle, this economic battle that we are fighting today. Yes, our people will suffer. 
   Future generations could well see their standard of living decline, the opportunity of their young people vanish, as well as the safety and strength of our country, which all leads us to the legislation that will be considered on Friday. Very powerful corporate interests, mainly billionaires in the electronics industry and the financial industry, are on the verge of fundamentally changing the U.S. patent system, and it will have dire consequences for the American people. So our colleagues need to pay attention. 
   Let us be clear and specific; the legislation in question, H.R. 1908, will dramatically weaken the patent rights of ordinary Americans and make us even more vulnerable to the outright theft of American-made technology and innovative ideas. 
   The purpose of the legislation is to weaken the patent system. Those people in the electronics industry and the financial industry do not want to pay royalties; they do not want to be hampered by watching out for and respecting the ownership rights of our inventors anymore. 
   This legislation is a slow-motion destruction of the patent system. No one will be candid enough to admit it, but the real reason for this and past forays against the patent system is aimed at the destruction of the system; it is not to make it better. No one is going to admit it. They're going to say they're here trying to reform the system. It is not aimed at that; it is aimed at destroying the system. The word ``reform'' is being used as a cover just as it was a cover in the immigration battle. We all remember that. People talked about comprehensive immigration because the real purpose, as we all know, was amnesty in that bill that was making its way through Congress. Everybody knows that. And amnesty would have brought tens of millions more here, at least that was debatable. Well, we should have talked about it and debated that issue. Instead, we heard about comprehensive reform as if it was going to solve a problem and make the immigration influx into our country, bring it under control. No. The purpose of that bill was amnesty. 
   When they talk about reform of our patent system, what they're really talking about is destroying the patent system and weakening its protection. They couldn't pass it otherwise. 
   There are some real problems that need to be solved with our patent system. Unfortunately, the legislation making its way through the system does not correct the problems, just as the comprehensive amnesty bill or comprehensive immigration bill didn't solve the problems. The problems are being used as an excuse to act. But the proposed changes are aimed at a totally different and indefensible goal. It is a power grab, a classic power grab where we are not having an honest debate, an honest exchange of ideas with the American people. 
   So we readily admit, those of us who are in opposition to the bill that will come to the floor Friday, H.R. 1908, we admit that we need patent legislation, legislation that speeds the examination and issuance of patents, helps the process, the examination process and the issuance process, provides training and compensation for patent examiners. We need legislation that does just that. We need legislation that will protect our inventors against theft, especially against foreign theft, where our own creative genius of our people is being taken and stolen by foreigners and then put into their manufacturing to outdo the United States, to put us out of business; our own creative genius used against us. Yes, we need to fix these problems with the patent. 
   The bill has this goal, and supposedly they talk about it. And if that was the  goal, it would be welcomed. Well, it also has been a straw man to justify this revolutionary altering of our patent system, of course. What we need, of course, is to correct the problems in the current system, not to destroy the system. 
   This comprehensive bill that we face, interestingly enough, is similar to a bill that came up 10 years ago that we managed, with public outcry, just like the outcry that stopped the immigration bill in the Senate. We stopped a bill like this 10 years ago. I called it the ``Steal American Technologies Act.'' Well, the same group of people, the same interest group that tried to push that is back. And so if you take a look at this bill, we might call it the ``Steal American Technologies Act Part 2.'' 
   So just what does H.R. 1908 do? First and foremost, it is designed, as I say, to weaken the patent protection of American inventors. So we support real reforms, but the proposed changes in H.R. 1908 will cause the collapse of the patent system that has sustained America for the past 200 years. 
   The negative impact of the totality of this bill is reflected in the wide spectrum of opposition who are now mobilizing against it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (AMERICAN PATENT LAW -- (House of Representatives - September 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. There are 102 cases over a year, which is basically what one judge sees. There is no litigation crisis. But again, as you are aware, what we have here is they are trying to use that as cover to try to do something else, because the bill is not aimed at correcting that. The bill is aimed at permitting these large companies to take, at will, from America's inventors. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (AMERICAN PATENT LAW -- (House of Representatives - September 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. The fundamental rules that were laid down 200  years ago on the very subject, for example, not just the confidentiality, which they are trying to destroy, but the subject that you brought up is first to file, versus the concept that we had in our system for over 200 years, which is that we respect the person who is the first to invent. 
   Inventors have told me over and over again that if we change our system, and, by the way, in Europe and Japan that is the way their systems are, and, of course, they don't protect the little guy. Their systems were designed at a time when they weren't talking about individual rights, but were trying to protect corporate interest in their country. 
   But first to file would flood our system with patent applications day after day after day. The large corporations who can afford to make a new filing every time there is a little step forward, you would end up flooding the system, as compared to what it is today. Talk about delays in the patent system. It would have a horrible impact. 
   In fact, some of the other things that they are suggesting also in terms of these, on June 7th, 2007, a letter to Congress from Chief Judge Paul Michael of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the U.S. Federal Circuit Court warned Congress that the learning curve for all of these changes that they are talking about, especially the first to file and the various changes in the standards, will result in additional court delays that would be severe and would add additional attorneys fees and costs. 
   So that is what we have. In the name of trying to prevent a glut, which they say now is flooding our courts, when there are only 102 cases, they are going to create changes that will flood our courts and add dramatically to the cost for an individual inventor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (AMERICAN PATENT LAW -- (House of Representatives - September 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. If I might add, the protections we have had, there are penalties that companies will pay, and you mentioned that those large corporations paid $2 billion, or I forget the exact figure you used, in terms of damages. Well, this bill would reduce the amount of damages that can be collected from a patent owner, an inventor who has been violated by an infringer. 
   If a company steals someone's nice idea and does not pay them for it and starts using it, especially foreign companies, this bill actually reduces the amount of money that can be expected by changing the criteria of how you can assess damages. What you will end up with is it won't be worthwhile for the inventor to have to pay the lawyers and go after these infringers, and our inventors will be high and dry, the technology that they do invent will go overseas, so they will cease to invent. 
   Who is going to be worse off? Everybody is going to be worse off. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (AMERICAN PATENT LAW -- (House of Representatives - September 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. It is easy to understand why it is going on, because the bill that is coming forward on Friday, H.R. 1908, that bill is designed not to help American competitiveness. That bill is not designed to protect the property rights of inventors. That bill is totally designed for the purpose of weakening the system for the American inventor and protecting the ability of the big guys, the guys who are shipping the jobs to China already, that is how much they care about us, to protect their ability to use technology and to steal it without having to pay for it. That is the purpose. It weakens it. The whole bill is designed to weaken the patent system. 
   As I have used the example of the immigration bill before, where people didn't want to talk about amnesty, everybody knows that was the real purpose. They used the word ``comprehensive'' to cover up that and not to debate amnesty. 
   This bill, the ``comprehensive reform bill,'' is designed to weaken the system, but they are using ``reform'' as a word to make it sound like they are trying to improve things. 
   Let us note the reason. If you ask these big companies and the people proposing this why we have to do it, they are not going to tell you we are doing it for the big guys. We are doing it because the financial industry and the electronics industry, they don't want to pay royalties, and they do their manufacturing overseas, so they don't care about the American worker anyway. They are not going to say that. What they are going to say is we need to harmonize all of our laws dealing with economics. We need to get up with the rest of the world. It is called harmonization. We heard that 10 years ago. We have to harmonize our law with the rest of the world. 
   We have had the strongest protection for patent rights of any country in the world since our country's founding, and it has served us well. Now they want to harmonize it with the rest of the world by lowering our standards, by lowering our protection. 
   If we did that with other freedoms, the freedom of religion, the freedom of speech, there would be a revolution in our country, because if we want to push for all countries to have one standard, well, they should be increasing their standards to meet our level of protection of rights, not having us lower the protection that we have for our individual citizens. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (AMERICAN PATENT LAW -- (House of Representatives - September 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Clearly, when we are talking about harmonizing our laws with the rest of the world, this is not an excuse to dramatically bring down the rights that have been enjoyed, the protections our people have enjoyed, and which have assured America's prosperity and the security of our people. 
   In fact, let's take a look at these huge electronics corporations and huge financial interests that are pushing H.R. 1908. These are the same companies that build their manufacturing units in China and have built up the economy of China so they can outcompete Americans. These are the same companies that have actually worked with a despotic gangster regime in Beijing so that their computers can be used to help track down political dissidents. 
   They tell us, well, we have to improve the economy of China in order to have them evolve into a more peaceful and more Democratic country. That is baloney. What they are doing over there is getting a quick profit. They are sitting over there getting their blood money at a 25 percent profit a year, when if they would have the same projects and have the same manufacturing in the United States, perhaps they would only make a 5 or 10 percent profit. 
   What it is, they have no loyalty to American ideals and they don't have a loyalty to the American worker. Without American working people standing up for these principles, these big companies would have nothing. We would live in a world that would be awash with tyrants, if it wasn't for the American people who defend liberty and justice throughout the world. 
   But yet these corporations take all of them for granted, just like they take for granted these small inventors. They look at them as nerds. These big executives, who will live in gated communities and go to the country clubs, they look at these inventors as nerds. The creative types are just the creative types. We have seen it over and over again. 
   That is the way they treat the American people as well, with arrogance and with a total lack of consideration. They go over and they invest in China, when they should be giving jobs, decent paying jobs, to the American people. But their profit margin would be a little less. 
   By the way, that profit margin that we are talking about, this isn't a profit margin that goes just to their stockholders. We are talking about big corporate billionaires who give themselves huge corporate salaries. And what are they doing? They are putting American workers out of work and sending it over to China. 
   This bill is their bill. H.R. 1908 will permit them to not only take the jobs to China, but to take the technology that is invented in our country to China to outcompete the workers here that are left. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (AMERICAN PATENT LAW -- (House of Representatives - September 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. The gentlewoman is right on target. What you have to do to understand how evil that is is realize that the Chinese couldn't have built that tire company because they did not have the equipment to do it. We have a major corporation from the United States sending our technology and our equipment over there, where American workers in the past would be able to outproduce low-paid Chinese workers because we had the technology. Our corporate leaders now have sent jobs over there by giving them the technology they need to outcompete American workers. 
   I will have to say we have a little disagreement on trade in terms of democratic countries, because I don't see anything wrong with trading with democratic countries. What we are referring to right now is something we both totally agree on, how can we have free trade with despotic regimes like China and other dictatorships around the world, where they keep their own people in abject poverty, and we are going to let our corporations take our technology over there, take even our investment there? A lot of times it is done with government-guaranteed loans from our government. 
   So this is all part of an overall problem, not a problem, but a threat to the American people, and this is a new wrinkle. In H.R. 1908, this is just the part where they are going to take the technology that is invented here immediately over and let their companies overseas steal it and use if, and then say to the inventors, go ahead and sue us. Try to get it.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (AMERICAN PATENT LAW -- (House of Representatives - September 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. One thing we know is that today's corporations are far different than in the past. We have corporations that are basically multinational corporations. Yeah, American citizens may lead up these corporations, but they consider themselves to be the head of a huge multinational organization, and their loyalty isn't to the people of the United States, it is to, supposedly, the corporate structure which, of course, could mean that they put thousands of Americans out of work and not give it even a second thought. 
   We cannot rely on these corporate elites to make the policy that will determine the future of our country. And that is what is happening here. The corporate elite, basically the high-tech billionaires, have come around and written H.R. 1908, and it will be a disaster for the American people if we let this go by because in the long term it will eliminate our technological edge over our competitors. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (AMERICAN PATENT LAW -- (House of Representatives - September 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. People need to know that H.R. 1908 will be coming to the floor on Friday. I call it the ``Steal America's Technology Act,'' and we need to defeat this bill. We need to have the support of the public and of our colleagues, and we are asking for that support today. 
   I would like to close with one story. It is a story of a statue of a man downstairs. If someone is going through the Capitol, he needs to look at the statue. There are many statues here, but it is a statue of a man named Philo Farnsworth. He was the personification of an individual inventor. He discovered, with his creative genius, the picture tube, the secret that created the picture tube for television. RCA had spent hundreds of millions of dollars trying to find that secret. Philo Farnsworth made the mistake of trusting David Sarnoff, the head of RCA, with the secret, thinking we are going to work together to develop this for all humankind. 
   Sarnoff immediately cut off all communications with this man and tried to steal this invention, claiming credit for RCA itself. For 20 years, poor Philo Farnsworth, the personification of the little guy, was being beaten down by David Sarnoff because he didn't want to pay the royalties or give the credit to this one little guy, this one lone American. 
   That case went all the way to the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court, God bless America, sided with the little guy, sided with Philo Farnsworth and reaffirmed that we are talking about rights that are guaranteed by our Constitution for all our citizens, the big guys and the little guys. 
   This bill, H.R. 1908, is a big guys' bill designed by the big guys to steal from the little guys and in the long run it will hurt all Americans. 
   I proudly stand by Marcy Kaptur and Mr. Manzullo and others who will be leading, helping us fight this back on Friday. We need everyone's support. We need all constituents to talk to their Congressman on this issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PERSEVERE AND TRIUMPH OVER OUR FOE -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, 271 years ago, American patriot and champion of human liberty, Thomas Paine, was born. His pamphlet ``Common Sense'' is credited with convincing the people of what was then the 13 colonies to declare themselves independent and committed to representative government and human liberty. 
   Paine was thus instrumental in bringing about the American Revolution. During that historic life and death struggle with Great Britain, which then was the world's mightiest empire, Paine was called upon by George Washington. At a moment when the tide seemed to be against us, General Washington implored Paine to write something that would bolster the spirits of those Americans supporting the patriots' cause. 
   Yes, there were naysayers and defeatists in those days too, as well as people who were demoralized by the ongoing conflict that was going badly. Yet, had those before us lost faith and given up, the cause of liberty and independence would have been lost. Thomas Paine, at this dark moment of despair, wrote ``The American Crisis.'' It was read aloud to every soldier in Washington's Continental Army, some listening while standing in the snow, freezing, ill equipped and hungry. Yet, they did not give up. They did not give into pessimism. It made all the difference for them and for us. 
   Every generation of Americans has to bear the weight of responsibility that comes with a commitment made to human liberty by our forefathers and -mothers 200 years ago. When freedom was in the balance and darkness of defeat loomed, Americans persevered and carried the day in the battle against tyranny and injustice, sometimes at horrendous cost, as in our Civil War when we rid America of the sin of slavery. Yes, at times, it looked as if the Union was lost. 
   Lincoln had the thankless job of leading this country and keeping it unified, he, and the Union soldiers, steadfast and strong. How our world would be different, our country would be different today had they quit and gone home. 
   In the 20th century, Americans stepped forward to save the world from the evil onslaught of Japanese militarism and Nazism and then communism. There were always low points when pessimism could have taken hold; and had America retreated, it would be a far more sinister world. 
   So, too, with the current preeminent threat to our security and freedom and the world's, radical Islam has declared war on our way of life. It is an enemy to the liberty those Americans before us so cherished and sacrificed to protect. We are now at a moment when the people of our country are weary of this conflict, especially as it plays itself out in far-off Iraq, where deadly explosions take the lives of Americans, young Americans, as well as Iraqis. 
   Let us not fool ourselves. The future of freedom and America's role in the world is in the balance. The future will be determined by what we do. Yes, there is reason for despair. The casualty lists include names of young people from Orange County, my Orange County, heroes such as young Marine Lance Corporal Marcus Glimpse of Huntington Beach, whose funeral I attended last April. Also, there is Corporal Angel Jose Garibay of Costa Mesa, and just this past weekend, the funeral of a 23-year-old second lieutenant from Irvine, Mark J. Daily. They now have joined a very selected band of brothers in heaven who gave their lives for America and for the cause of human freedom. Yes, we are proud, but also we feel a profound sadness at their loss. 
   Perhaps as we decide now, in this moment, when the bloodshed seems so futile, we should remember an earlier time of crisis, when the future seemed bleak, but our own resolve carried the day and the cause with it of human liberty. 
   I will read the following excerpt from Thomas Paine's ``The American Crisis,'' when he said: ``These are the times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of their country; but he who stands by it now, deserves the love and thanks of man and woman. Tyranny, like hell, is not easily conquered; yet we have this consolation with us, that the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph. What we obtain too cheap, we esteem too lightly: it is dearness only that gives everything its value. Heaven knows how to put a proper price upon its goods; and it would be strange indeed if so celestial an article as freedom should not be highly rated.'' 
   I ask my colleagues and the American people to think about these words and to stand firm for the cause of liberty for which our Founding Fathers have sacrificed so much  
   We Americans, made up of every race, religion, and ethnic group have a special role to play in this world. We are the hope and light of all those who would live in freedom and long for justice. So as we face the crisis of our generation, perhaps we should again visit the  words of Thomas Paine who inspired those who came before us to persevere and triumph over a formative foe.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (UNITED STATES-INDIA NUCLEAR COOPERATION APPROVAL AND NONPROLIFERATION ENHANCEMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. I rise in support of this historic effort to establish a partnership in helping India meets its energy needs, creating a prosperous country through clean and safe nuclear energy. 
   I would hope that the nuclear technology utilized by this project and by this pact will be based on the high temperature gas cool reactors, which are safer and will not produce a byproduct that can be built into a bomb. Now, if we use these reactors, that should take care of the proliferation concerns of our colleagues they are rightfully concerned about. 
   During the Cold War, unfortunate ideologically driven issues prevented us from a friendship and a close relationship with India. By cooperating in good faith to help India meet its energy challenge, we are indeed making it a better world and a safer world, and we now have an opportunity to have a new beginning with a country that was not in a good relationship with us in decades past. 
   This can be a mutually profitable relationship, and we can indeed embrace the world's largest democracy, as compared to during the Cold War when we had too close a relationship, which we are paying for now, with China, which is the world's largest and biggest human rights abuser. 
   So I gladly step forward and proudly step forward to be part of this historic effort to build good relations between the United States and India by utilizing safe and clean nuclear energy to build a more prosperous continent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (NATIONAL SECURITY AND AMERICAN FOREIGN POLICY -- (House of Representatives - October 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, tonight I'd like to share a few thoughts about national security and about American foreign policy. We have many challenges that confront us today, and we live in perplexing times, but we also live in a time when there are great challenges as well as great opportunities, as long as we, the American people, have the courage to live up to our potential as a country that could lead the world into a better way than we have known throughout the history of humankind. 
   We are indeed in a new millennium, and this new millennium, coupled with the technological capabilities that we have and the vast wealth that is available to the free societies of the world today make it possible that we can build a better world than any human being has ever known. But, again, a lot of this has to fall back on the United States of America and our willingness as Americans to live up to the responsibility that we've been handed. 
   Ronald Reagan used to say that America has a very special role to play in this world. He used to say that because we Americans are a very special kind of people. We are not of one race. We're not of one religion nor one ethnic group, but instead, we are made up of people who come from every part of this planet and every racial background and worship God in every way that you can imagine. And in fact, there are many atheists who don't worship God at all and have that right, but we've come here to live in freedom and to show the world and to lead the world as a country that's made up of people from all over, that lead the world toward that direction which will enable it to overcome those trials and tribulations, those hatreds, ancient hatreds that have plagued mankind for so long. 
   And yes, today, the United States is the great superpower, thanks of course a lot to Ronald Reagan who I just talked about. The fact that during the Cold War he was willing to act responsibly to make tough decisions, in a way that ended the Cold War in a very real sense, he oversaw the demise of communism in the Soviet Union. It was Ronald Reagan who everyone knows brought down the Berlin Wall and not George Herbert Walker Bush, George W. Bush's father.     
   But as the Berlin Wall came down because of the policies of Ronald Reagan, we too must make the right decisions to ensure that the challenges that we face today are overcome in time for the next generation to enjoy greater freedom and to free themselves from the threats of fear that we face today. This will not happen unless we act responsibly, unless we act with courage, but, most importantly, unless we stand up and proclaim that, yes, we are from every nation of the world and every race and every religion, and we are the ones who will promote freedom and liberty on this planet. It is that alliance that we can have with those people in every country, that we have are, as I say, those people within our own society who can reach out to every country with that message, that we are allied with those good and decent people throughout the world who would stand with us to create a world where human freedom and liberty and justice and treating people with respect is something that is commonplace rather than the exception. 
   Sometimes it's a little difficult to think of a world becoming free, and the expansion of liberty and justice in this world, when we hear the reports that we heard today coming out of Burma. Burma, for these last 4 decades, has lived under tyranny, a horrible, horrible tyranny. It has been a closed society. Burma is a country that is so rich in natural resources that after the Second World War it was thought that Burma would be the breadbasket of Asia, that Burma would indeed be one of the richest countries of Asia. 
   Instead, Burma has sunk year after year, suffering from tyranny but, as a result of that tyranny, its people have lived in deprivation and in hunger and in want that was never ever thought would happen. No one ever thought that would happen after the Second World War. 
   But if we have learned anything from Burma and from the other countries that are poor today, it is that poverty is not created by too big a population. Poverty is not created by even a scarcity of resources, natural resources. Poverty is created because of tyranny. Tyranny and dictatorship bring corruption and bring about a strangling of those creative impulses within any society and those productive people within every society that will build, that will create the wealth necessary to uplift the people of any society. Instead,  tyranny drags them down, no matter how prosperous the country could be in terms of its natural resources. 
   The report today is that Burma had its chance, or perhaps it still does, but that the ruling regime, the gangsters that have run that country for decades, have now unleashed their firepower upon the Buddhist monks and the other people in that society who are calling for a liberalization of the Burmese regime. Apparently, thousands of people have been slaughtered. 
   In fact, an intelligence officer for the Burmese military has defected, and he now is reporting to Western newspapers that it was his orders, by his commanding officers, to round up hundreds, if not thousands of monks, and put them in trucks and take them into the deep jungle and murder them and dump their bodies in the jungle. 
   He could not do that, and so he defected. He grabbed his child and ran for the border. It is time for the other military officers in Burma and the police not just to take their children and run because they can't obey an order, but to realize that the orders they are being given by their generals, their so-called generals, are not lawful orders. It is time for the army of Burma to side with the people of Burma. 
   Any military leaders in Burma today who side with the people will become national heroes and will be renowned and remembered by their people for generations to come. They will receive the gratitude not only of the people of Burma, but to all the good and decent people of the world. The soldiers in Burma and the police in Burma should turn their guns on their generals. They should side with the people of Burma, their fathers, their mothers, their brothers and sisters who want honest government and clean government. They should not be slaughtering their fellow family members who want nothing more than clean, honest, Democratic government. 
   The regime, as I say, is headed by what they call generals, but these are not generals. These are gangsters who have put on military uniforms. No Burmese soldier owes them any allegiance. These generals, these gangsters, have sold out their country and their countrymen to foreign interests, namely, the Chinese. Yes, the dictatorship in Beijing is treating the government, which means the generals, in Burma as if Burma was a vassal state of China. 
   In exchange for the $1.5 billion worth of military equipment that China has given Burma, the Burmese gangsters who run that country are permitted, the government in Beijing and the Chinese, to rape the natural resources of the people of Burma, the teakwood, the gems, the uranium, the rich minerals that Burma has are being taken away. They are being eliminated from the future of the people of that country in order to pay for the weapons that repress the people of that country. The Chinese have demanded of the Burmese Government a facility on their ocean so that they can be in a position to outflank India and to interfere with the trade, ocean trade in that part of the world. 
   All of this is being given away by those leaders, so-called leaders in Burma. They are giving away the rightful legacy of the people of Burma to Chinese outsiders, gangsters in China now in league with gangsters of Burma. 
   This is the type of relationship that China will have with other countries if we permit them. And it is clear, for those of us who are looking, that the military troops that are now shooting down those who seek democracy in Burma would not be doing so if the Chinese would have objected and sent any message to their Burmese stooges not to shoot and not to commit violence against those who are peacefully advocating change, democratic change in Burma. 
   Yes, they have a regime. But unlike in other countries, like we faced in another issue which I will talk about in Iraq, in Burma, there is an alternative. 
   There is an alternative to the Burmese dictatorship. Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel Prize winner, won with her party elections back in the 1990s when the generals were so deluded that they believed their own propaganda in thinking they were more popular than they were, and they permitted a free election. In that free election, they were wiped out. 
   The fact is that Aung San Suu Kyi of Burma and the people of Burma went to polls and the people of Burma overwhelmingly supported democratic reform and Aung San Suu Kyi. The election was, of course, immediately discarded; the generals mobilized their troops. Aung San Suu Kyi was sent into House arrest. 
   Aung San Suu Kyi, I went to Burma and met her several years ago, one of the great heroes of our time, a saintly person, someone who is depending on us like the people of Burma to make a strong stand. If nothing else, the American people must let the people of Burma know that we are on their side, and we must let the ruling junta know that we oppose them and we oppose their oppression of the Burmese people. 
   This should be clear to them, and we must make sure that those Burmese generals and those military officers who were committing atrocities against the people of Burma realize they are not just murdering their fellow Burmese, they are committing crimes against humanity, and they will be followed and pursued just like the Nazis before them, and they will be held accountable and brought to justice. 
   I am calling on our government to freeze any assets that any leader of the Burmese Government might have, and our government should be working with other governments to issue arrest warrants for any member of the Burmese Government who travels abroad. 
   Furthermore, we must join with other nations and suggest that China is not doing its part and is playing a horrible role when it comes to freedom in Burma, as it will play the same role in the Philippines and elsewhere as its strength as a country grows. 
   China has prevented the United Nations from stopping the atrocities that are now going on, as we speak, in Burma. China has been pulling the strings. The Burmese regime would never have opened fire without permission in Beijing. The people of Burma should know that. The people of the world should know that. 
   It is time for the people in the United States to quit closing their eyes to the monstrous nature of the Beijing regime. Without that regime, the Burmese dictators, the gangsters in Burma, would not be able to succeed in holding down that population and by brutalizing their people. 
   I have a piece of legislation before the Congress, and I would ask my colleagues to join me. The legislation is H.R. 610. It is a bill suggesting that we go on record as being in favor of boycotting the upcoming Olympics to be held in China. 
   There is no reason, while China remains the world's worst human rights abuser, and that includes Burma, I might add, the Chinese are the world's worst human rights abuser, and why should we ever hold an Olympics, which stands for some of the higher aspirations of humankind, why should we ever hold an Olympics in China while it has that type of monstrously dictatorial government. Yes, in China they not only are involved with repressing the people of Burma, but they are deeply involved with criminal acts against their own people, especially against religious believers. 
   Isn't it fascinating that in Burma, those who would try to lead the country to a better and more Democratic way are those Buddhist monks who now, in a very peaceful way, have presented their case and are answered with an iron fist. They are answered by bullets, they are answered by brutality. 
   In China, it's the same. We have people of the religious faith, whether they are Muslims in the far reaches of China or whether they are people in Tibet, who have been so brutalized, or other religious believers, Christians, Catholics, and, yes, the Falun Gong, the Falun Gong who have a spiritual belief that is somewhat similar to yoga and somewhat meditation. Yet, this very simple and pacifist religion has been vilified by the communist party of China, and thousands and thousands of Falun Gong practitioners believing in meditation and yoga have been arrested. They are picked up, and they disappear. 
   The women are raped in prison; they are murdered. Perhaps worst of all, when they disappear, they are sent to prisons, and now we have reports coming out of those prisons that Falun Gong prisoners, people who are pacifists, who are simply believing in meditation and yoga, they are, what, they  are being murdered for their organ parts which are then being sold. Sometimes they sell them to Americans who come there. Falun Gong prisoners are killed right before a doctor, who would then remove the cornea from their eye and sell it to people in the West who spend thousands of dollars to get these body parts. 
   If there is anything more ghoulish than this, even the Nazis, I don't think, could sink that low, but they sank about as low as one could ever expect. But that is the type of thing that goes on today, and we are giving the Chinese the ability to hold the Olympics, to cover up, to put a good face on this type of monstrous regime. 
   It is time for the people of the United States Congress to join with me in agreeing that as long as China is doing, number one, what it's doing in Burma and in Darfur, where they are again behind the scenes playing a horrible role, it is time for us to join together and say we will not participate in an Olympics hosted by such a criminal government.     
   And I am happy to announce today NEIL ABERCROMBIE, my colleague from Hawaii, has joined me in supporting this legislation. 
   China, of course, even beyond, if it was simply a nondictatorship, there would be major problems with China. China is a predatory nation. China is a nation, for example, it is a nation, as a nation state it's huge, and it has more territorial claims than any other major power in the world. China has been built into a huge power, an economic power, which is now being translated into military power. Even though it has claims against India, huge areas of India and Russia, large areas of the ocean are claimed by China. If one remembers, it was just a few years ago when one of our planes, our surveillance planes flying in international waters was forced down in China, and they claimed that their territorial waters extended way beyond anything the United States would recognize. And all they wanted for us to get the crew back was for us to apologize and to acknowledge that we were in their territory. 
   What does that mean? They would have murdered these American military personnel in order to assert their claim to huge areas of ocean. In fact, they claim the ocean right up to the shore line of the Philippines. They claim the Sprattley Islands, which are only 100 miles from the Philippines and 500 to 600 miles from China. Huge areas, as I say, of India and of Russia. 
   This is a country that we have built an economy over these last two decades, we have built from a weak country, we now have created a Frankenstein monster. And when I say ``we,'' I mean the policies of the United States Government have uplifted the economic capabilities of a country that has had no liberalization, no political reform of their dictatorial system. 
   We were told for 20 years, when I first got here, vote for most favored nation status for China, because if we interact with China economically, they will liberalize. What they need to do is, we have to prove to them not to fear us. This is a reoccurring theme by which people who live in democratic societies fool themselves into thinking that the criminals who run other governments, dictatorships are in some way motivated by the same motives that people are in free societies, that people in free societies will fear someone, thus they will agree to certain expenditures, military expenditures. 
   The Chinese know exactly who we are and who they are. The Chinese people are not the enemy. Those people in Beijing want to hold on to power, just as the dictators in Burma want to hold on to power. And as we move forward and try to determine what our policy should be in the future, let us note the policies of trying to engage China economically, permitting huge transfers of dollars of capital assets, of technology, of American know-how, of opening our markets, even though their markets were closed, letting them manipulate the currency, letting them get away with policies that shifted wealth from the United States into China. That did not have a positive impact on their government. Their government is still corrupt. Their government is still a government of criminal dictators, people who oppress their people and, as I say, are the worst human rights abusers in the world. 
   So first and foremost, in dealing with China, as in dealing with Burma, we must differentiate how we treat a dictatorship and how we treat a democratic country. Those leaders in China should not be granted the status of acceptability that goes with hosting the Olympics with our blessing. 
   Yet, we have, for the last two decades, seen an army of American corporate leaders rushing to China to invest and build factories and in partnership with the Chinese Government set up these factories and create manufacturing units that sell goods back to the United States, putting American workers out of work, selling goods back to the United States that have such poor standards that some of them are made of toxic material, as we've just seen with Mattel Toys, American corporate leaders, who are looking for two, three, maybe 4 years' worth of big profit for themselves, then they can cut and run and go off to their vacationland homes and enjoy themselves. 
   Those corporate leaders have created a monster with the blessing of the United States Government, because it's been our policy to permit them to transfer the technology, the know-how, and the investment dollars that were needed to build China into what it is today. And today, the Chinese are destroying the manufacturing base of the United States, and we have turned a blind eye to the fact that they manipulate the currency, that they manipulate access to their markets, and that they steal American intellectual property. We have turned a blind eye to that, just as we have turned a blind eye to the fact that the Chinese repress their own people. 
   And when you talk to these corporate leaders who've gone over there and built this monster, created this Nazi-like government, you ask them, they say, well, you know, when we do more and more economic interaction, we have more business; that's what's going to create more liberalism and reform there. How many times have we heard that? We've been listening to that for 20 years. The first speech I heard about this on the floor for most favored nation status for China was saying just that 20 years ago, yet it never happens. This is called the ``hug a Nazi, make a liberal theory.'' Just get close to them and they won't fear you anymore. 
   Well, the fact is China has been getting worse since, over these last two decades. It was Tiananmen Square that was the turning point. Up until Tiananmen Square, there was a legitimate reason for us to try to build the economy of China, to create closer ties, because there was an evolution going on, both economically and politically in China. And when it reached a point, at Tiananmen Square, you might say the tipping point, the United States didn't stand up. The Chinese gangsters, just like in Burma, where the military regime had to make its decision, was it going to open fire on their own people, the Chinese Government was facing this decision, and our government did nothing and 
   we said nothing. 
   It is my contention that had George Herbert Walker Bush, then President of the United States, sent a message to China and to the Chinese leaders that if you murder and try to slaughter the democratic movement in China, we are withdrawing from our economic cooperation that we have agreed to, they would not have done so. And I will tell you tonight, Ronald Reagan would have sent that letter in a millisecond. Ronald Reagan would have been told that the democratic movement was on the verge of success, but they would be slaughtered if they sent the troops in and they need to send a message to the leadership of China saying that we are going to withdraw our economic cooperation with them if they, indeed, mowed down their own people. Reagan would have done it. 
   This President Bush's father did not; and thus we have had, in the last two decades, not a transition to democracy, but only a growing of their economy, which now gives them greater military capabilities and gives them greater wealth from which to try to undermine the United States. 
   And, again, as we look at this threat, what is really important is the same thing that's important in Burma and elsewhere, the basic message that we need to understand tonight, that when confronting regimes like China and  Burma, and confronting radical Islam that hates America, let's remember that it is the people who want to live decent lives and live in democracy who are America's greatest allies. The people of China, the people of China are the ones we must ally ourselves with. They need to know that we are on their side. They need to know that the people of the United States and the people of China all long to treat people decently and to live in freedom and justice. The people of China will be on our side if we are on their side. The people of Burma are on our side as long as they know we are on their side. Good and decent people throughout the world know this. 
   But, instead, we have been so busy building an economic infrastructure that permits wealth to flow to China that we have not bothered to make the demands on the government or to create, to help create the democratic movements within China that would move their government from within. 
   One example, by the way, of how we have done this is the fact that we have built a conveyor system for trade across our oceans, especially across the Pacific, especially from Shanghai into the ports that I represent, Long Beach and Los Angeles. We have built, with American taxpayer dollars, an incredibly efficient system so that American businessmen could go and set up factories in China, manufacture their goods over there, and ship them to the United States via a system that we've paid for, and come into our market and undercut our own American working people and our own American manufacturers who've stayed at home. We built this for them. 
   That's why I've long been an advocate of a container fee system so that at least, at the very least, if they're going to send containers filled with goods here, why should we build the ports and spend billions of dollars of infrastructure so that they can very efficiently send containers filled with goods into our society and undercut our own manufacturers? 
   I have not received the support that I believe that idea justifies. In fact, you see people in both the Democratic Party and the Republican Party, oh poo-pooing that as if it was a tax on the American people. We are not charging those American manufacturers who go to China. We're not. We are subsidizing them in their shipment of goods here to undercut our own people. That makes no sense. But it makes sense to those businessmen. It makes not only sense; it makes dollars for them. And as I say, they make a really quick profit; 4 or 5 years and they're done. They're even done with their own companies after 4 or 5 years. But we are the ones with our manufacturing base destroyed who have to pick up the pieces. 
   In my own city, in Huntington Beach, where I live, a manufacturer of paint and coatings was the person who sold the coatings to Mattel Toys for Barbie dolls. And in the year 2000, Mattel Toys gave an award to this company as the number one supplier for Mattel Toys. And then Mattel Toys sold out to the Chinese, decided to manufacture everything in China. The Chinese came to this gentleman and said, give us the formula for your coatings, and we will be partners. As soon as he gave them the formula, the Chinese disappeared. They disappeared, and he was never able to get a hold of them. And next thing you know, they aren't using his formula. They're using lead in the formula. And my children at home, who have Barbie dolls now, and all the other American children who have Barbie dolls, may have been infected with lead poisoning because Mattel Toys took the easy way out, along with the other American manufacturers who went to China in order to not pay our own American workers a decent wage.     
   They want to get a 10 percent or 20 percent higher profit in China rather than paying American workers a decent wage and having half as much profit. Who is paying the price for us? The American people in the end will pay the price as China grows into a massive, economic, and military power, which goes with that. 
   Of course, during the Clinton years, what did we find? There was not only technology transfer in the economic area, but they had actually polluted our political system as well. Campaign contributions flowing into the American political system and American missile technology leaking out in the other direction. The scandal during the Clinton years of American missile technology being transferred to the Chinese through Hughes and Lorel Corporation is a disgrace. And the evidence of Chinese influence and especially financial support during that election makes that even worse. 
   But we need to make sure that we bypass our own business leaders, bypass the leadership, the gangsters that run Beijing and Burma and like countries, and go directly to the people throughout the world with our message of hope, democracy, liberty, and justice. The people of Burma and the people of China are our greatest allies. These Burmese soldiers now have to make a decision as to whether they will fire upon their own people. The Chinese people should not permit their children, and they only have one child per family, to go into the military so that it can be used to suppress their own people. 
   This is not unlike the war we fight today, not with Burma or China but, of course, with radical Islam. China is not an enemy today. China is an adversary today, a very powerful adversary. We are, in fact, making that adversary so powerful, it's becoming frightening. But we are at war with radical Islam. We are at war with radical Islam. And again let me note that when I say that, I emphasize that Muslims throughout the world who do not hate America, Muslims throughout the world who love their faith, as they should, which it has meant very much to their lives and over a billion people, Muslims throughout the world who know that their prayer time and their other religious ceremonies and beliefs have meant a lot to their life and have added great depth to their life, those people are not our enemies. Those people are our friends. 
   We believe in freedom of religion. We respect other people's religion. We ask only that other people respect our religion. And, by the way, our respect for religion doesn't just go to other faiths, but it goes to people who don't believe in God at all, who don't choose to worship. 
   Our Founding Fathers did not come here, as some of my conservative friends say, to create a Christian Nation. We came here to create a Nation where freedom of religion was respected and that we acknowledged God but we did not in any way want to force those beliefs on those who were nonbelievers. 
   It is right that the people of Islam worship the way they choose, whether here or abroad. Those people who only want that freedom and are willing to grant that to others are our friends. But a radical fringe which hates everything we stand for has now arisen in the Muslim world. 
   Let me note that during the 1920s we had terrorists and in years past we had terrorists who were Christians. In 1920, the biggest political force in this country was the Ku Klux Klan. The Ku Klux Klan, as we know, carried around banners with crosses and declaring their love of Christianity. And the fact is that Christian churches in the South did not condemn the Ku Klux Klan, as they should have. The good and decent people of the American South, when they knew that these Klansmen were murdering people, they were terrorizing the black population, murdering them, hanging them, all kinds of torture that was going on in our country against our own black population, the Christian people did not stand up in those areas when they knew that the Klansmen were right there in church with them. 
   Well, that was a hundred years ago. Our Muslim brothers we are expecting to do better than we did when it came to the Klan because al Qaeda is the Ku Klux Klan of Islam. Al Qaeda are the hate mongers. Al Qaeda are those who would bring people who believe in God and put them at war with one another rather than trying to bring them together in peace and brotherhood. 
   In Afghanistan after 9/11, the United States went to Afghanistan and allied itself with moderate Muslims. During the 1990s, there was a mistake by this government just as we made a mistake with China. We tried to work with the Taliban. In fact, during the Clinton administration, the Taliban came into  being. And, in fact, it is very easy to see the historical record that the Clinton administration reached an agreement with Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, and our government was involved in creating the Taliban. 
   During that time period, I was a Member of Congress, and because I had spent time in Afghanistan during the war against the Soviets, I spent considerable time in Afghanistan working with those people who would oppose the Taliban. I begged the powers that be that they support King Zahir Shaw, a moderate Muslim, a man who was much beloved by all Afghans, to support his return. And, instead, our government, under Madeleine Albright and all the others of the Clinton administration, did what? They decided to go along with the Saudis and to go along with the Pakistanis in creating a religious force, that they said because the people of Afghanistan are devout, this is what will draw them together, by supporting religious fanatics. 
   I told them at the time it was ridiculous. I told them that it would backfire on them during the war with the Soviets. The Pakistanis had passed on aid to Hikmatyar Gulbadin, a horrendous terrorist who was, again, a radical Islamist. But there were many others whom we helped during the war against the Soviets. I was there with them. And whether it was Abdul Haq or Commander Massoud or others like them, there were many others, Galani's forces and others, who were very, very mainstream Islamic people who were not anti-Western but were just trying to free their own country from the atheistic dictatorship of the communists, and we helped them. But after that, as we walked away, when the Soviets walked away, we made this deal with the Saudis and with the Pakistanis to let them finance the reconstruction and determine who would be in power in Afghanistan, and that is when the Taliban was born, as I say, at that time over my serious objections, and I spent 5 years going in and out of Afghanistan meeting with those people who would later become the Northern Alliance. 
   So as we look back on Afghanistan now, years after the Taliban has been defeated and al Qaeda was driven out of that country, let us remember the success that we had was because we went to the people. 
   There is a mistaken belief that we are not ``winning'' in Iraq because we didn't have enough boots on the ground. We didn't send in enough American troops. Well, in fact, we had probably 100 boots on the ground when Kabul was liberated from the Taliban and al Qaeda forces in the aftermath of 9/11. In fact, that liberation of Afghanistan was accomplished with very few American soldiers on the frontlines. In fact, the people of Afghanistan liberated themselves, and we did not liberate them. And we went into that war, and we reached agreements with those leaders, tribal leaders. They are often called warlords, but that was the Northern Alliance. And it was the Northern Alliance and those good people in Afghanistan who worked with me in the Mujahideen to fight against the Soviets. Those are the people who drove out the Taliban. 
   When we went into Iraq, it was a different story, unfortunately. Mistakes have been made, yes. Mistakes have been made in Iraq. There is no doubt. We sent in a military force, a strong military force, and they did their job. What did not happen was the political job that was necessary to complement the fact that we had dispossessed Saddam Hussein of his military might. Instead of making agreements as we did in Afghanistan with the tribal leaders, we did not, as we did in Afghanistan, reach out to the local powers that be that were moderate Muslims, and there are many moderate Muslims in Iraq. What we instead did was tell the people of Iraq that we were going to rebuild their entire country and that, for example, there would be no room. Mr. Bremer is quoted as saying to tribal leaders that there would be no room in a modern democratic Iraq for tribalism. Thus in our effort to make the decision for those people, rather than going to the people and their leaders ourselves, we have put ourselves in what has been a horrific quagmire. 
   How we extricate ourselves from Iraq will go a long way in defining what type of world my children live in and, in fact, what kind of world the young people who are with us today will have. If we try to pull out precipitously and look like we are running away, if we look like we are surrendering, if it looks like we have been defeated, we will embolden those people in Iraq who hate everything about the United States, and we will embolden the radical Islamists throughout the world. There is no doubt about that. That is not to say, again, that we should not be admitting our mistakes and doing what we can to extricate ourselves in a responsible way. That is why I have been supporting General Petraeus and his efforts to have a phased withdrawal, a responsible phased withdrawal, that will then permit those elements within Iraq that do not want to be ruled by radical Islam or those elements that would like to be friends of the West to give them a chance to step up. If we are viewed as retreating and abandoning those people, there will be a heavy price to pay. 
   And let us admit that with the mistakes that I have already mentioned, it is a tempting target for people involved in our political system to use what is going on in Iraq as a political vehicle in the upcoming elections. 
   Now, the people here in Congress, we have to search our souls to make sure what we are doing is based not on political motives but instead is based on what is the long-term interest of the people of the United States. 
   I go down and welcome home the troops, the reservists and National Guard, all the time that come in and out and leave Iraq or are coming back from Iraq, and I welcome them back, and I know, because I have supported this effort, that I must pay special attention. But let us note that we have to be doing this and looking at this and analyzing what is happening in a nonpolitical way. I am afraid that there are some forces at play that would try to politicize what is going on in Iraq. 
   Those people who oppose our efforts to have a phased withdrawal, would like immediate withdrawal from Iraq, those people who see America as the big problem in the world instead of as the world's only hope, those people cannot attack American soldiers because they realize that all Americans are proud of the men and women who are defending our country in uniform. But what we are witnessing now is what I would consider a maneuver on the part of those who, if they could, would attack American military troops. What they are doing is attacking American security companies who have been brought to Iraq to try to supplement our war effort there. By and large these American security companies are made up of people who have perhaps 10 times the experience of our own soldiers. American security companies like Blackwater, for example, hire on special forces and other extraordinarily well-trained American military personnel when they retire from the military so that their skills can still be put to use in the defense of our country and in the promotion of human freedom.     
   Their personnel are essential to the success of any of our military goals, but they're also essential to the success of a phased pull-out of Iraq. Otherwise, there will be no buffer. Otherwise, there is no means for us to have the type of withdrawal with success. Otherwise, it is a retreat. 
   Blackwater, as I say, has been working now, I think, since 1997. It's run by a young man named Eric Prince. He inherited his money. And the fact is he could have done a lot of other things with his money and made a lot more money. He could have gone to China and made 10 times the profit that he makes by creating a security company that would work side by side with American forces and American diplomats overseas to try to offer protection to our country and to those State Department and other people who are working in the United States Government overseas. He could have gone and made much more money. 
   Instead, now he's being called, I've seen him called ``murderer,'' I've seen the people in Blackwater being called ``thugs,'' when in fact almost every one of these people who work for Blackwater, like Eric himself, are former Special Forces people. Eric was a Navy SEAL for 5 years. And then, rather than just living the life of luxury that he could have done when he  inherited his money, he decided to do something good for his country. Those people who are retiring from our military and have good pensions, yes, they could live the life of Riley; they could go fishing every day. But, instead, they are putting their skills to use by putting their lives in danger for us. Yet, they are being attacked unmercifully by people who just basically oppose the fact that this President got us involved in Iraq in the first place. 
   We should not be taking it out on the people of Blackwater. Those men and women who are in Blackwater are very honorable people. And not to say they haven't made some mistakes, just as our own military personnel have made mistakes; but, in fact, Blackwater probably has a better record than our own military because they are, as I say, they are people with vastly more experience than that of our own soldiers and sailors and airmen. 
   So tomorrow there will be a hearing on Blackwater. I would hope that Blackwater and the people of Blackwater, those people who have made enormous contributions to the safety and security of our operations in Afghanistan and in Iraq, that they are not brutalized, that they're treated fairly, and that we do not permit the politicalization of this fight with radical Islam and this effort that now goes on in Iraq to be used in a way that will, number one, hurt brave people who are risking their lives for us, but at the same time, undermine our efforts for the long-term security of our country so that we will have a phased withdrawal that will give the good people of this world a chance. 
   We need to give the people of Burma a chance. We need to give the people of China a chance. We need to give the people of Iraq a chance. They are our greatest allies. 
   The people of the world who would live in democracy and see America as a positive force and, fortunately, many of them see America as a positive force, yet many people here in the United States for some reason do not share that opinion of their own country and believe that the United States is a negative force in the world. And that's what motivates many of them in their actions when it comes to Blackwater and it comes to this war. 
   Finally, let me note this: this President has made a lot of mistakes. And I have supported the President when he has been right; I have been opposed to him when he's wrong. This President seems to be headstrong, and I think that's a pleasant way of putting it. That does not mean that all the decisions that he has made have been wrong. We need to support him when he's right; we need to try to work with him and try to steer American policy when he is wrong. The idea of a phased withdrawal from Iraq is right. 
   But this President did not get us in this war with radical Islam. This war that we are in with radical Islam was created in the previous administration. We need to document that. It needs to be documented what the policies of the Clinton administration were towards the Taliban. I will be giving a speech in the next few weeks again detailing that, about how I pled, as a senior member of the International Relations Committee, for the documents from Madeleine Albright to prove what our policy was towards the Taliban; why it was that we were giving our foreign aid to the Taliban in radical Islamic areas of Afghanistan and giving short shrift to Commander Massoud and the pro-Western Muslims in Afghanistan. 
   We need to document these things. We need to document whether or not bin Laden was someone who could have been handled, if we were courageous enough to do it, 5 years, 10 years before 9/11. 
   We know now that some of the documents that the 9/11 Commission was supposed to read were not available to them. We had a commission that went to study why we had 9/11, but yet we know today that the National Security Adviser to President Bill Clinton stole documents out of the National Archives to prevent that commission, the 9/11 Commission, from seeing certain information that would be relevant to the war on terrorism. Part of his agreement, Sandy Berger, the National Security Adviser to President Clinton, when his theft was discovered, he volunteered, as part of his plea agreement, to give a lie detector test to the Justice Department if so requested to determine exactly what were the documents that he stole from the National Archives. 
   At the beginning of this year, a majority of Republican Members of this body signed a letter to the Justice Department, under the leadership of TOM DAVIS, asking the Justice Department to give that polygraph test, after so many years, I think it's been 4 years, it could be 3. For 3 years Sandy Berger has not been given the polygraph test to see exactly what documents he stole from the National Archives. 
   It is time for the American people to demand that we know what caused 9/11, and we will not know that until Sandy Berger, the National Security Adviser to the Clinton administration, is given a polygraph test, which won't happen until the Department of Justice gives that polygraph test and demands it. 
   Today, I am calling upon the new Attorney General to put Sandy Berger on the line, to give him a polygraph test and determine what documents he stole from the National Archives and to give us a full accounting of what led up to 9/11, what happened during the Clinton administration that was so heinous that Sandy Berger, the National Security Adviser to the President, would risk everything, would risk his reputation and go into the National Archives and steal documents. 
   Could it be that during the Clinton years that, for example, there was evidence of technology transfers and Chinese involvement in our political system? Could it be that a Gorelick memo, who at that time the lady was an important player in the Clinton administration, she had a mandate that domestic and international intelligence groups and law enforcement could not work together, could that have something to do with a Chinese connection? 
   What did Sandy Berger steal from the National Archives? We need to know. We should not be ignored. If this was a Republican, I can tell you that every newspaper in the country would be clamoring until we found out exactly what documents were stolen from the National Archives by the President's National Security Adviser. 
   So, tonight, I hope that my colleagues would join me, number one, in telling the people of Burma we're on their side; and joining me in calling for a boycott of the Beijing Olympics; of supporting a phased withdrawal, responsible withdrawal from Iraq; supporting our people both in uniform and in our protective companies like Blackwater, making sure we do not mistreat them; and finally, join me in calling for the truth in what Sandy Berger, the National Security Adviser for Bill Clinton, stole from the Archives. He needs to be given his polygraph test. The Justice Department needs to act. 
   So with those requests for my fellow colleagues, I now yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this proposal to increase the minimum wage by $2.10 an hour over the next 2 years. 
   What we are witnessing today, of course, is the quintessential example of political figures offering something for nothing. We can just bestow upon the American people $2.10 an hour, and there is no cost to it. Well, if that is really the case, and there is no downside, why are we such pikers? Why are we not offering a minimum wage hike of $5 an hour? Or $10? Or maybe even $20 an hour more? We know that that is not realistic because there is a downside that can be calculated. In fact, by mandating the pay raises that we are talking about today, economists have estimated that about 1.6 million people, the people at the very bottom rung of our economic ladder, will be put through great hardship. They won't be hired, or they will be fired because their salary now must be allocated in these small businesses which, of course, is where most of the employment takes place, their salaries will now have to be allocated to the other employees. Yes, there is a cost to pay when you mandate someone in their operation gets paid more money, and the burden will be borne by the very lowest level of employees. That is what this proposal is all about. 
   Now, there is a way to actually help people have higher salaries. I happen to believe in high wages. I am not a pro-management guy. I believe in higher wages for the American people, and there is a way that we can achieve higher wages for the American people, especially those at the lowest income. But those who are advocating that we raise the minimum wage wouldn't think about advocating this solution. And that solution is very easy for the American people to understand: We have an out-of-control flow of illegal immigrants into our country. If we  would commit ourselves to solving that problem, to get control of this massive flow of illegals into our country, we would have more than a doubling of this minimum wage. We would have wage earners all up and down the scale, even at the very bottom of the scale, help. 
   But, no. Why aren't we doing this? Because, yes, there is a price to pay for that as well. Getting control of illegal immigration, making sure that our employers are not hiring illegals, who would pay that price? People who come to this country illegally would pay that price. Their lives would be harder. It would be tougher on them. But we are supposed to be representing the interests of the American people. Yes, we sympathize with people who come here illegally. We sympathize with those people overseas, but if we raise the minimum wage this way, there will be more illegals who will come to this country to get that higher minimum wage, and our own people at the bottom rung of the economic ladder will be put out of a job. 
   Let's watch out for the interests of the American people. Let's commit ourselves to getting control of the massive flow of illegals into our country, and then we can raise the wages of everyone. Let's not offer people stunts and schemes like this of the minimum wage, of offering them something for nothing. Let's really help them out. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1433, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, my friend was very correct when she said we should all be concerned about the rights of the people who live here in the District of Columbia, the fact that they have taxation without representation and then lack the voting rights other people do. However, what is being offered today is clearly unconstitutional. If we just go through this whole procedure and it gets thrown out by the Court, what have we accomplished? 
   There is an alternative. Unfortunately, that substitute was not made in order. There is an alternative which would give the people in this State not only the right to vote for a Representative in the House, but for a Senator and 11 congressional electors as well. The substitute, which would be constitutional, simply grants the citizens of the District of Columbia their State citizenship rights in Maryland, which is what happened in Virginia, of course, in the past, 100 years ago. My substitute would give the people of this city the right to vote for two Senators as well as a Representative as well as electors, and yet this was not permitted to come to the House here today. It is a substitute, and we were not allowed to vote on it here or to even consider it. 
   I would say there are some political considerations that have limited this debate at the expense of the people of this city. I would like to place in the Record a further description of the substitute legislation that I have in mind. And I would suggest that what we do is get politics out of this. Let us give these people a right not only to vote for a Representative, here but for two Senators. We have it within our ability to do that.  
   The Rohrabacher substitute, essentially the text of H.R. 492, restores the full House, Senate, and Electoral College voting rights enjoyed by residents of the District of Columbia as citizens of Maryland from creation of the District in 1790 to the enactment of the Organic Act of 1801. By restoring the state citizenship rights of D.C. residents to vote for, run for, and serve as U.S. Representatives and Senators, the Rohrabacher substitute complies with the literal reading of Sections 2 and 3 of Article I of the Constitution requiring that Representatives and Senators come from states. 
   Like the base bill, the Rohrabacher substitute adds an additional Representative for the next state in line in the 2000 census (i.e., Utah), and permanently increases the membership of the House of Representatives to 437. The bill provides an additional Representative for Maryland, which for census purposes will include the population of the District of Columbia. Until redistricting is accomplished, D.C. would constitute the additional Maryland district by itself. When Maryland redistricts its congressional districts, its districts would have to be equal in population, but the District of Columbia could not be divided into more than one congressional district. Federal elections in D.C. would be conducted pursuant to Maryland election law, with the D.C. government treated as a local jurisdiction in Maryland for this purpose. 
   To avoid double counting in the Electoral College, the substitute exercises Congress's powers in both sections of the 23rd Amendment to provide that the D.C.'s own presidential electors not be appointed or cast votes. The bill would take effect with the 2008 election, with the new Representatives from Maryland and Utah taking office at the beginning of the 111th Congress, at which point the offices of D.C. delegate and D.C.'s shadow Representative and Senators would be abolished. Utah would be required to hold its 2008 and 2010 congressional elections in accordance with the four-district plan the state adopted in 2006.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (ADMINISTRATION NOT COOPERATING WITH CONGRESS -- (House of Representatives - February 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Speaker , I come to the floor tonight with a heavy heart. The nature of the allegations I make speaks poorly of this administration. In my heart of hearts, I have always wanted this administration to succeed, but the issue at hand is of such magnitude that the American people need to know what is being done and what precedents are being set. 
   In my tenure as a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, both as chairman and ranking member of an investigative subcommittee, I have witnessed firsthand beh avior by the Bush administration which I find deeply troubling. 
   The disdain and uncooperative nature that this administration has shown toward Congress, including Republican Members, is so egregious that I can no longer assume that it is simply bureaucratic incompetence or isolated mistakes. Rather, I have come to the sad conclusion that this administration has intentionally obstructed Congress' rightful and constitutional duties. 
   Tonight I will discuss some serious examples of this administration's contemptuous disregard for the authority delegated to Congress by the Constitution. This bad attitude has consistently manifested itself in a sophomoric resentment toward Congress' constitutional role as an equal branch of government. The result has been an executive branch too insecure to let Congress do its job, an executive branch that sees Congress, even when Republicans held the majority, as a rival and a spoiler, rather than as elected representatives of the American people playing a rightful role in establishing policy for our great country. 
   Unfortunately, when the President of the United States rejects the legitimacy of congressional prerogatives, there are serious consequences. Tonight, I will provide examples of how this administration for the past 7 years has undercut congressional investigators, has lied to Members of Congress, and has forged ahead with secret deals in spite of efforts and pleas by Congress to be informed, if not involved. 
   In the last Congress, I was chairman of the Overs ight and Investigations Subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. In that capacity, I learned that in the time immediately leading up to the bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City, convicted Oklahoma City bomber and murderer Terry Nichols had been in Cebu City in the Philippines. His stay in Cebu City coincided with another visitor to that city, al Qaeda's terrorist leader Ramsey Yousef. Interestingly, both Nichols and Yousef used similar bombs and methods just 2 years apart to blow up two American targets. Yousef was the mastermind of the first attack on the World Trade Center in 1993. Nichols was a coconspirator in the bombing of the Oklahoma City Federal Building in 1995. 
   By the way, I would like to acknowledge that today happens to be the 15-year anniversary of that first devastating attack on the World Trade Center. 
   These individuals, one American and one Arab, were responsible for planning two of the most lethal terrorist attacks on our countrymen in our history. We are to b elieve that by coincidence they ended up in an off-the-beaten-track city in the Southern Philippines? One doesn't have to be a conspiracy nut to understand that this coincidence is certainly worth looking into. 
   I started an official congressional investigation sanctioned by Henry Hyde, then the chairman of the International Relations Committee, to see whether Terry Nichols or his accomplice, Timothy McVeigh, had foreign help in their murderous terrorist bombing of the Alfred Murrah Building in Oklahoma City. 
   In light of the fact that Terry Nichols and Ramsey Yousef were both in Cebu City at the same time prior to hauntingly similar terrorist attacks, it was no stretch for a congressional investigative committee to be looking into this matter. However, the Bush administration felt quite differently. To those I had to deal with, it was ``case closed, don't bother us.'' They had looked into the matter, and Congress should simply and blindly accept their conclusion that there was no Nichols-Yousef connect ion. ``Don't bother us.'' This was at times bureaucratic laziness, and at other times it was clearly based on a disdain for congressional investigations and authority. 
   During my investigation, I secured Ramsey Yousef's cell phone records. The records were part of the phone calls that he made when he was in that New York City area in the months just prior to the bombing of the World Trade Center in 1993. 
   The phone records show that Ramsey Yousef made at least two phone calls to a row house in Queens, New York. 
     That row house was occupied by the cousin of Terry Nichols' Filipina wife. Let me repeat that. The terrorist bomber of the first World Trade Center attack, the nephew of al Qaeda 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammad, made phone calls to the same row house that was occupied by Terry Nichols' cousins-in-law just 2 months before he exploded t he bomb in the garage of the World Trade Center 15 years ago. Another coincidence? 
   I gave this information to the Department of Justice and since that time have repeatedly sought their help in investigating this matter. Time after time, my requests have gone unanswered or have just been flatly denied. 
   I also asked the Department of Justice on numerous occasions to help me investigate the name Samir Khahil. This name is on a list of unindicted co-conspirators of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, a gain in connection with Ramsey Yousef. 
   It also is the name, by the way, of an Iraqi man in Oklahoma City who at the time of the Oklahoma City bombing employed an Arab immigrant who fits the description originally made by numerous witnesses as to John Doe II. 
   This Oklahoma-based Iraqi lied, meaning the John Doe II look-alike, lied to the investigators about his whereabouts at the time of the Oklahoma City bombing, yet there was little if any follow-up on this John Doe II look-alike. In fact, the FBI simply declared that John Doe II never existed. The existence of John Doe II, let it be remembered, was based on a sketch and sketches derived from witnesses on the scene of the Oklahoma City bombing and the truck rental company in which that bomb was placed on a truck from that truck rental company. Those witnesses described a man who, as I say, looked very much like Samir Khahil's employee. 
   Now, I have repeatedly asked the Department of Justice to tell me if the Samir Khahil on the unindicted coconspi rators list of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing is the same Samir Khahil who employed a man originally identified as John Doe II, the bomber, the number two bomber in the Oklahoma City bombing. The Justice Department's answer: ``It would be too burdensome to find out if it was the same man.'' 
   Further, we asked help in finding the Arab immigrant who looked like John Doe II and the man who was employed by Samir Khahil. We traced him to Boston, but we have had no support or cooperation in finding this v ery possible terrorist, or at least terrorist suspect. He may well have been working at Boston's Logan Airport on 9/11/01, the day that a plane took off from that airport and was hijacked and crashed into the World Trade Center. Another weird coincidence to the Oklahoma City bombing. Another coincidence, yes. 
   You don't have to be a conspiracy nut to believe that these things should be investigated. Instead, there has been no follow-through, no interest. The case is closed, forget it, both in terms of Sa mir Khahil and his Iraqi employer and employee; and both of these people, of course, reside in the United States right now. 
   That is just a small taste of the deplorable lack of cooperation for a legitimate congressional investigation. And it was no fluke. I didn't just happen to snag some uncooperative Federal employee. No, this is the level of non-cooperation Congress has learned to expect from this administration. 
   Yes, Departments and agencies do have limited resources, and I understand that. I us ed to work in the executive branch. So, yes, there may be some better uses for and some good uses for those limited resources and better uses for their time and investigators, rather than just following up on leads that are provided by Members of Congress.     
   You can hear someone explaining that. But the lack of cooperatio n that we have had goes far beyond the fact that they are not going to give their limited resources or even use some of their investigators to track down what most of us would consider a very worthwhile lead, especially considering that the terrorist that we are asking to look into currently resides in the United States and may well have had something to do with the bombing of the World Trade Center and the bombing of the Oklahoma City building there. 
   But, again, a lot of my requests don't require a lot of time and effort on the part of the executive branch, and I still have been stonewalled. For the past year, for example, I have repeatedly requested to interview the imprisoned terrorist Ramzi Yousef. He is in Colorado and in strict lockup. He has been there for 10 years. 
   This would have taken no time and no resources from any executive branch or Federal employee. None. This request is well within my committee's jurisdiction as ranking member of the Investigative Subcommittee of the House Foreign Aff airs Committee. 
   This request has been supported by the chairman of the Investigative Subcommittee, the chairman of the full Foreign Affairs Committee, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, and the chairman of the Intelligence Committee. 
   Such attention by Congress should be welcomed by this administration and every administration. The legislative branch can help bring new information to light and inform the public. 
   Nevertheless, the Department of Justice, consistent with its treatment of congr essional inquiries during the tenure of this President, has dismissed this valid request. This request has been treated with what can only be described as contempt and condescension. 
   The point is, unfortunately, that this rejectionist attitude is typical. It is not that they don't have enough resources to help out, to look into an easy matter to look into. It is just that they do not want to cooperate with Congress, even when it's a Republican in Congress, even when the Congress was controlled by a Repu blican majority. 
   So, why would this administration obstruct congressional inquiries such as this? Remember, Ramzi Yousef was the mastermind behind several devastating terrorist attacks and plots against America. He led the first murderous attack on the World Trade Center in 1993, as I say. 
   After fleeing to the Philippines, he and two other terrorists plotted to kill thousands of Americans by blowing up 12 commercial airliners over the Pacific at the same time. It was known as the Bojinka plot. It wa s within 2 weeks of being executed when it was discovered and thwarted by Philippine police. 
   Interestingly, the terrorist operation, the Bojinka plot, was to take place about the same time as the Oklahoma City Federal building bombing, perhaps on the same day. We don't know. Perhaps we should know. Perhaps we should ask Ramzi Yousef about that. 
   Ramzi Yousef has been in Federal prison for over a decade. He is a prisoner with a unique understanding of the al Qaeda terrorist structure. He is the nephew of Khalid Sheik Mohammed, the mastermind of the 9/11 attack on the World Trade Center. 
   In 2006, when I was the chairman of the House Oversight Investigations Subcommittee on the Foreign Affairs Committee, I was investigating Yousef's movements and activities not only in the United States but in the Philippines. I even traveled to the Philippines to question authorities who had captured Yousef's roommate and coconspirator in the Bojinka plot. 
   In spite of that fact and in spite of the fact that I was looking into Yousef's terrorist activities and in spite of the fact that I had obtained new information about Yousef's phone calls right here in the United States and new information about his associates while he was in the United States, the Department of Justice still dismisses the effort and, more than that, they are obstructing a legitimate congressional investigation, refusing to permit this elected Member of Congress, a ranking member of a congressional investigating committee, to interview a Federal prisoner. They refused access to Yousef claiming that there is a ``ongoing investigation.'' 
   This prisoner has been in jail for over 10 years. It is more likely that what we have here is an ongoing coverup and not an ongoing investigation. In fact, I have been told recently by a former member of the Justice Department that they were told routinely simply to give answers that there is an ongoing investigation even if no ongoing investigation was underway, but simply using it as a phrase to dismiss a requ est from Congress.  
   Well, this is outrageous, but it's typical of this administration. This is a lot more than just a hurtful pride on my part of being turned down. 
   This administration is setting a terrible precedent. What people have to understand, when I am turned down like this, is when there is a liberal Democrat in the White House, the President will have set that Members of Congress can simply be dismissed, and that when they are trying to do a congressional investigation need not be coo perated with, in fact, can be obstructed. Is that the type of President that we want? Is that acceptable? It shouldn't be acceptable to Democrats and it shouldn't be acceptable to Republicans. 
   Doesn't Congress have a right to talk to Federal prisoners. Are these the rules of engagement? Is it really the rules of engagement that we want for our government that Members of Congress and the legislative branch don't have a right to talk to Federal prisoners? 
   Well, that's apparently what the Bush administ ration is trying to establish as the executive authority, as executive authority, the right to deny congressional investigators access to Federal prisoners. The danger of this should be easy to understand, both on my side of the aisle, the Republican side, and the Democratic side of the aisle. 
   Again, the attitude, apparent in the treatment of this request, is not an aberration or is it some sort of situation where this is not really a representative way the President has acted with his authority. No, I am afraid that's not the case. 
   This request was first made and denied when the Republicans controlled the Congress and I was the chairman of the Investigative Subcommittee. 
   Now Congress has a Democrat majority. In my position as ranking member of the International Organizations, Human Rights, and Oversight Subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I have seen it time and time again. 
   Our subcommittee chairman, BILL DELAHUNT from Massachusetts, read in the newspaper that our Presi dent is negotiating a security agreement with the Iraqi Prime Minister that will govern the future relationship of our countries. 
   Now let me say that again. The chairman of the Oversight Subcommittee on Foreign Affairs Committee is getting the information about a hugely important foreign bilateral security agreement by reading the newspaper. So, Chairman Delahunt conducted a hearing about the status of such an agreement and invited the administration to send a witness to testify before Congress. 
   How did the administration respond? They ignored the request. So the hearing was held with a private panel of witnesses, and, yes, the public has a right and an obligation to fully understand such commitments that are being made by the President in our name. 
   In a democratic society, policy is made after having an open dialogue. George Bush was elected Presi dent, not king. 
   In another attempt last month, our subcommittee held another hearing on the Iraqi security agreement and, again, our panel invited and pleaded with the administration to provide a witness. Their response? Silence. 
   Our subcommittee held another, a third hearing on this topic. Again, our subcommittee invited the administration to attend and explain to Congress what kind of commitment our government has agreed to with the government of Iraq. Even our full committee chairman wrote letter s asking for the administration to participate in the subcommittee hearing. All the requests to the administration by our committee and by the superiors in the full committee were ignored, except for one, and, in one instance, where the contact was made, and I am sad to say that once again this administration was less than honest on a matter of national importance, Chairman Dela-hunt's subcommittee was told by a White House staffer that the administration's unwillingness to participate in hearings was because ``There is nothing to talk about because we haven't put pen to paper'' on security, because they haven't put the pen to paper on the security agreement, supposedly. 
   Well, when confronted with the fact that the New York Times had written a story saying that a 17-page agreement was being passed around, this White House staffer backtracked and quibbled. 
   This is unacceptable, it's dishonest, and it's typical. It's like saying there is an ongoing investigation; don't discuss anything anymore wit h me. There is nothing going on here. 
   Now, there is something going on, just as, instead of talking and trying to negotiate about what type of spokesman we could have at a hearing, instead, what we get is an undermining of the congressional right to oversee for the foreign policy decisions of this administration. 
   This stonewalling prevailed until a few weeks ago, when Condoleezza Rice, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, a person and a leader who I deeply admire, testified at a hearing of the full International Relations Committee. 
   When asked about this issue, about witnesses not showing up from the State Department and this administration to explain to us in public and to discuss in public these very important agreements that are being negotiated with Iraq, she pledged at that time that there would be future witnesses dealing with this Iraqi agreement. 
   At least Condoleezza Rice, the Secretary of State, feels secure enough in this administration to do what's right and to talk directly to Cong ress and to send her people over to talk to us. 
   Unfortunately, we had to go all the way to the Secretary of State before we could get anybody in this administration to participate. Let me note, I am a supporter of the President's Iraqi policies. I have been a supporter since day one. I supported the surge, and I am not in favor of some of the propositions made by my friends on the other side of the aisle, which I consider would be a precipitous leaving of Iraq and would cause damage, I believe. 
   But that's not the point. The point is, Congress has a legitimate oversight responsibility and that the President of the United States should be discussing in public so that the public could understand why policy is being made rather than trying to secretly arrange a policy agreement and then surprise everybody, you know, as a done deal. Sadly, this administration's antipathy to the constitutional responsibilities of the legislative branch of government does not stop and end with my efforts and those of my subc ommittee on investigations. 
   In October of last year, 22 of my colleagues and I wrote to the Acting Attorney General, Peter Keisler, regarding the pending lie detector test for former National Security Advisor Sandy Berger. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (FILIPINO VETERANS EQUITY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 6897, the Filipino Veterans Equity Act of 2008. I am very pleased to see so much enthusiasm in recognizing World War II Filipino veterans who have so long deserved our gratitude for their service to this nation. As Americans, we have a moral obligation to care for the veterans who have sacrificed so much to ensure that we here at home can continue to pursue the ideals that have been the foundation of our country for over two centuries. 
   For many years I have met with individuals of the Filipino community who have longed for acknowledgement of the sacrifices they made not only for their own land, but also ours. While these veterans were once eligible for benefits under programs administered by the Veterans' Administration, these benefits were stripped by the passage of the Rescission Acts of 1946. Since then, some of these benefits have been reinstituted, but not to the extent deserved. 
   The Philippine Islands were possessions of the United States through 1946 and the military forces of the Commonwealth of the Philippines were inducted by President Roosevelt under the command of the United States Armed Forces of the Far East. They were not just allies during the war who fought alongside our soldiers; they were our soldiers. My father, a late World War II Veteran, encountered combat in the Philippines and served with the Filipino veterans, whom he considered comrades in every sense of the word. 
   The passage of Filipino Veterans Equity Act of 2008 is imperative to help close this chapter of our past. Most of the Filipino Veterans have already passed away with no adequate compensation or recognition for their service to this country, yet that should not keep us from acting today to ensure that those still left are acknowledged. I am pleased to see that H.R. 6897 is on suspension today and ask my colleagues to give it their support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (RECLAIMING DR. BERNARD SIEGAN'S REPUTATION -- (House of Representatives - August 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to correct the record concerning a great economist and a friend, the late Bernard Siegan, a distinguished professor of law at the University of San Diego. It will be remembered that in 1988 Dr. Siegan was nominated by President Ronald Reagan to the U.S. Court of Appeals. He promptly came under attack, one of the worst from Professor Lawrence Tribe of Harvard University. 
   Tribe wrote in a public letter on May 28, 1987, to Senator Biden attacking the academic views of Dr. Siegan as being outside the mainstream of American jurisprudence. 
   In a widely quoted section of his letter, Professor Tribe assailed Dr. Siegan's assertion that the Brown v. Board of Education ruling was ``a component of the right to travel, a right long secured by the Federal courts.'' 
   At this time Professor Tribe claimed that this legal view was ``tortured'' and part of ``Mr. Siegan's radical revisionism ..... so bizarre and strained ..... as to bring into question both Mr. Siegan's competence as a constitutional lawyer and his sincerity as a scholar.'' This type of assault was typical of the attacks that preceded the defeat of Dr. Siegan's nomination. 
   That was 1987, and much has changed since then. 
   Dr. Bernard Siegan died in March 2006. His many books, speeches and articles made him one of the most prolific and respected legal and constitutional scholars on the political right. 
   Recently, in sorting through the files of her last husband, Mrs. Shelley Siegan came upon a series of written exchanges between her husband and Professor Lawrence Tribe. Tribe wrote on September 6, 1991, ``I have reconsidered my description of your analysis of Brown v. Board of Education. I agree with your general approach that Brown can be justified by arguing from the `liberty' component of the 14th amendment.'' 
   Tribe further wrote Dr. Siegan, ``although I do not reach the same conclusions you do, the issues you raise are important enough to be worthy of scholarly discussion.'' 
   Unfortunately for Dr. Siegan's reputation, Professor Tribe's reevaluation was never publicly documented. However, in a letter to Mrs. Siegan on September 21, 2006, he wrote, ``Please permit me to apologize to you here for the unnecessary and ad hominem character of what I wrote to Senator Biden in May 1987. 
   ``I am sorry to have caused him, or you, any distress, and I am grateful for the opportunity your letter affords me to set the letter straight as best I could do at this late date.'' 
   All this tells us much about the ugly period of personal attack this country experienced during the judicial nominations of the 1980s. 
   I hope this review of the above-cited letters makes it clear that Professor Bernard Siegan was a distinguished and respected scholar, a champion of personal liberty and private property. And contrary to the assertions made during his nomination hearings in 1987, Professor Bernard Siegan would have been made an excellent addition to the 9th District Circuit Court of Appeals. 
   And now the record is set straight. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVISTS DEBT RELIEF ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of S. 3197. 
   I am pleased that we are finally about to provide this benefit to our veterans, but I am troubled that it has taken us so long to do so. On April 14, 2005, the House considered S. 256, the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005, which was a much-needed and very responsible reform. Then in the minority, my colleague Ms. Schakowsky introduced a motion to recommit so that the bill would allow a targeted exemption from our stricter means test for those National Guard and Reservists who had been called up after 9/11. 
   At the time of the floor debate, I was told by the Republican floor manager that the Schakowsky motion was redundant, that there was already such protection for our National Guard and Reservists under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. Because of this, I voted against the motion, and it failed on a party-line vote, 200 yeas to 229 nays. 
   I soon found out, however, that I and other Republican Members had been misinformed, apparently to prevent the then-minority from having any legislative success. When I found out there was no adequate protection for our returning Reservists and Guardsmen, I pledged to work with my colleague, Ms. Schakowsky, to make it right. 
   Subsequently, I introduced legislation to amend the bankruptcy law. This measure, of course, isn't costing any--well, maybe it costs a few, but probably not any Federal dollars--new Federal dollars. There is no big spending involved in this. There is no massive appropriation needed. All it is is a consideration for these people who have risked their lives for us and are coming home. But my party couldn't get itself to provide consideration for our homecoming heroes, even though there wasn't a major cost involved. Thus my legislation didn't ever get to the floor. 
   In the meantime, party control of the House changed, and Ms. Schakowsky and I have been working diligently to get this legislation to the floor and get it passed into law. The Senate passed the bill by unanimous consent on Tuesday, and we are now considering this bill under suspension, which means it's pretty well recognized that this has widespread support, and it should have been voted on and accepted a long time ago. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, tomorrow is a critical day for America. Tomorrow, the House will consider legislation that will dramatically diminish a constitutionally protected right that has served this Nation well. We are talking about fundamentally altering the laws governing the ownership of technology in our country. America's patent system is on the line. 
   In short, if H.R. 1908, the bill in question, passes, there will be a tremendous negative, long-term consequence not just for America's inventors but for our country as a whole. 
   It is American technology that has made all the difference in our country's security and our people's way of life. Those patriots who laid the foundation for our country wrote into the Constitution a provision they firmly believed as a prerequisite to progress and freedom. 
   Article I, section 8 of the Constitution states in part that, quote, Congress shall have the power to promote the progress of science and useful arts by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries, end of quote. 
   Our Founding Fathers obviously held the right of owning one's ideas, creations and inventions as equal to the rights of speech, religion and assembly. In fact, in the body of the Constitution, the word ``right'' is only used in reference to patents and copyrights. The Bill of Rights was added later. 
   In short, we have had since our country's founding the strongest patent protection in the world, and that is why in the history of mankind there has never been a more innovative and creative people. It has been no accident that Americans have been the world's great inventors, scientists, and technologists. Black Americans, in particular, have excelled in the creation of new technologies. This was no accident. It was a result of the protections that we put into our law to secure for all people the right of ownership for their inventions and their creations. 
   Americans were the inventors of technology that produced more wealth, with less labor, and thus elevated the standard of living of all people which, in turn, opened the doors of opportunity for all people. 
   Let us understand that it was not raw muscle, nor was it the hard work of our people that built this country. There are people who work hard all over the world. They work hard and they use their muscles and they struggle; yet, they live in abject poverty. So it's not just the use of one's physical strength that will change the world and make it a better place. It was not our vast territory and our natural resources that gave us a standard of living of which we are so proud. No, it was not these things. It was our ingenuity, our intelligence and, yes, the legal system that was established to protect ingenuity and creativity that brought us the joys of freedom and the benefits of freedom. 
   We treated intellectual property rights, the creation of new technologies, as we treated property, personal and other political rights, and that is what America has been all about. Every person's rights were to be respected and protected; and as I have just demonstrated, the idea of the right to own one's creation was fundamental to this concept of the American Dream that was laid in the constitutional foundation of our country by our Founding Fathers. 
   Today, we face a great historic challenge, and this challenge comes exactly at the time when our country faces economic threats from abroad as never  before. We must prevail over our economic competitors who are at war with the well-being of the American people. We must win or our country and our people will lose. If we lose this battle, our people will suffer. It is as simple as that. 
   Future generations could well see their standard of living decline, and there is evidence of that already. We can see their standard of living decline, and they may well see the safety and the strength of our country compromised, to which the security of their families will be in jeopardy, which all leads us to the legislation that we will consider tomorrow. 
   Let's be clear and specific. The legislation in question, H.R. 1908, will dramatically weaken the patent rights of ordinary Americans and make us even more vulnerable to outright theft of American-created technology and innovative ideas. This legislation represents a slow-motion destruction of our patent system. 
   And, yes, there are some real problems that need to be solved with our patent system. We need patent legislation that speeds up the examination process and the issuance process and makes it more accurate. We need patent legislation that provides training and compensation for our patent examiners. Patent examiners are overworked; they're undertrained. They need to have higher pay to make sure we keep the good patent examiners on the job. 
   We need patent legislation that helps us protect our inventors against theft, especially from foreign theft. We need legislation aimed at fixing these problems, and it would be justified and it would be welcome, but the legislation on the floor tomorrow does not fix the system. It simply weakens the protection of American inventors using these festering problems as a cover. 
   Some people might even suggest that the reason that these problems with our patent system have been permitted to fester was so that people could use them as an excuse to undermine the very basis of the patent system itself. Unfortunately, what we are witnessing is a replay of the strategy used in the illegal immigration debate of just a few months ago. 
   The American people have been crying out for protection against a huge invasion of illegal immigrants into our country, one that is affecting their standard of living, their safety as a people, and their economic well-being. Special interests who benefited by this flood of illegals tried to push through a bill that would have made the situation worse. That's right, a bill in the name of stopping the illegal immigration flood that would have actually made it worse. 
   To confuse the public, they kept calling it a comprehensive bill, as if it was designed to fix the problem. Instead, the purpose of that comprehensive bill, as we all are aware, was to give amnesty to all those who are in our country illegally, and that of course, would have attracted tens of millions of more illegals. It would have made a bad situation worse, and its only intent was amnesty. Yet, with a straight face, they kept using the phrase comprehensive reform, implying there was a fix. 
   Well, that same strategy seems to be used by those behind this effort to undermine or destroy America's patent system as it has worked since the founding of our country over 200 years ago. Instead of arguing their case that we need to move away from the patent protection-type situation, they are simply calling their legislation a comprehensive bill. Instead of attacking the small inventor, instead of saying we're going to have a bill that actually restricts the rights of our citizens in this area because we believe that the small inventors are abusing the system, instead, they're calling it a comprehensive bill to make it sound like they are fixing some problems within the system. 
   This bill, let's remember, H.R. 1908, is not new. This is very similar to legislation that we barely beat back 10 years ago. I called that the Steal American Technologies Act; and guess what, we beat them but they're back. 
   So this could be called, and it would be accurate to call H.R. 1908, the Steal American Technology Act Part 2. By the way, those of us who mobilized opposition to the 1997 patent legislation negotiated a compromise that passed in 1999 and then became law in the year 2000. This legislation on the floor tomorrow represents a negation of all the compromises that we worked out in 1999. 
   So those of us, Mr. Manzullo who will be with us in a moment, Marcy Kaptur and myself and others who insisted on certain things for that patent bill in 1999 and were given compromises in that legislation, we now face a bill that negates all of those compromises. I don't know if that's meaningful to those people who are examining this process, but it suggests the level of the attack on our patent system that we are experiencing. 
   Even at this late moment, we are not certain what will be exactly in that bill because, at this moment, as we speak, there are changes being made in that bill that we are being told about, and we don't know exactly what those changes will be until tomorrow when it hits the floor because deals are being made as we speak. 
   So first and foremost, no matter what the details, because we probably won't have a chance to look at all the details, let it be noted that H.R. 1908, which will be on the floor tomorrow, was specifically designed to weaken the patent protection of the American inventor. This was the purpose of the bill. 
   We supported and will support any real reforms of the patent system, but those proposed in H.R. 1908 will cause the collapse of the patent system that has sustained America's wealth, our prosperity and, yes, our national security for over 200 years. 
   The negative impact of the totality of this bill is reflected in the wide spectrum who are in opposition who have mobilized against it. 
   For the record, I would submit, Mr. Speaker, the list of those companies and those organizations and those individuals, prominent individuals and companies and universities who are now fervently opposed to H.R. 1908 and begging us not to pass this legislation, and I would place it in the Record at this point. 
   Organizations and Companies Which Have Raised Objections to Patent Legislation (H.R. 1908) 
   Organizations and Companies Raising Objections to H.R. 1908, the Patent Reform Act of 2007: 3M, Abbott, Accelerated Technologies, Inc., Acorn Cardiovascular Inc., Adams Capital Management, Adroit Medical Systems, Inc., AdvaMed, Advanced Diamond Technologies, Inc., Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc., Aero-Marine Company, AFL-CIO, African American Republican Leadership Council. 
   Air Liquide, Air Products, ALD NanoSolutions, Inc., ALIO Industries, Allergan, Inc., Almyra, Inc., AmberWave Systems Corporation, American Conservative Union, American Intellectual Property Law Association (AIPLA), American Seed Trade, Americans for Sovereignty. 
   Americans for the Preservation of Liberty, Amylin Pharmaceuticals, AngioDynamics, Inc., Applied Medical, Applied Nanotech, Inc., Argentis Pharmaceuticals, LLC, Arizona BioIndustry Association, ARYx Therapeutics, Ascenta Therapeutics, Inc., Association of University Technology Managers (AUTM). 
   Asthmatx, Inc., AstraZeneca, Aware, Inc., Baxa Corporation, Baxter Healthcare Corporation, BayBio, Beckman Coulter, BIO--Biotechnology Industry Organization, BioCardia, Inc., BIOCOM, Biogen Idec, Biomedical Association, BioOhio, Bioscience Institute, Biotechnology Council of New Jersey. 
   Blacks for Economic Security Trust Fund, BlazeTech Corporation, Boston Scientific, Bridgestone Americas Holding, Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb, BuzzLogic, California Healthcare Institute, California Healthcare Institute (The), Canopy Ventures, Carbide Derivative Technologies, Cardiac Concepts, Inc., CardioDynamics, Cargill, Inc., Cassie-Shipherd Group, Caterpillar, Celgene Corporation, Cell Genesys, Inc., Center 7, Inc., Center for Small Business and the Environment, Centre for Security Policy, Cephalon, CheckFree, Christian Coalition of America. 
   Cincinnati Sub-Zero Products, Coalition for 21st Century Patent Reform, Coalitions for America, CogniTek Management Systems, Inc., Colorado Bioscience Association, Conceptus, Inc., CONNECT, Connecticut United for Research Excellence, Cornell University, Corning, Coronis Medical Ventures, Council for America, CropLife America, Cryptography Research, Cummins Inc., Cummins-Allison Corporation. 
   CVRx Inc., Dais Analytic Corporation, Dartmouth Regional Technology Center, Inc., Declaration Alliance, Deltanoid Pharmaceuticals, Digimarc Corporation, DirectPointe, Dow Chemical Company, Dupont, Dura-Line Corporation, Dynatronics Co., Eagle Forum, Eastman Chemical Company, Economic Development Center, Edwards Lifesciences, Elan Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Electronics for Imaging, Eli Lilly and  Company, Ellman Innovations LLC, Enterprise Partners Venture Capital, Evalve, Inc. 
   Exxon Mobile Corporation, Fallbrook Technologies Inc., FarSounder, Inc. Footnote.com. 
   Gambro BCT, General Electric, Genomic Health, Inc., Gen-Probe Incorporated, Genzyme, Georgia Biomedical Partnership, Glacier Cross, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline, Glenview State Bank, Hawaii Science & Technology Council, HealthCare Institute of New Jersey, HeartWare, Inc., Helius, Inc., Henkel Corporation, Hoffman-LaRoche, Inc. 
   iBIO, Imago Scientific Instruments, Impulse Dynamics (USA), Inc., Indiana Health Industry Forum, Indiana University, Innovation Alliance, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)-USA, InterDigital Communications Corporation, Intermolecular, Inc., International Association of Professional and Technical Engineers (IFPTE), Invitrogen Corporation, Iowa Biotechnology Association, ISTA Pharmaceuticals, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Johnson & Johnson, KansasBio, Leadership Institute, Let Freedom Ring, Life Science Alley, LITMUS, LLC. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. I would ask the gentleman, isn't it very clear when you're looking at that change, and there are about, as I was going through, six or seven changes, what was the purpose? What was in the mind of those people who wrote this into law and pushed for this change to be made? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. There it is. The bottom line is, you go through this bill and there are about 20 different provisions like the damage provision that you're talking about, and each and every one of them is designed to weaken the protection and hurt the person who's the innovator.  
   And what has been our greatest asset in the United States of America? Is that we protected those innovators. 
   If the gentleman would yield for one moment, we do have a gentleman with us from Maine who would like to say a few words, and I would yield whatever time you would consume to Congressman Michaud from Maine. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. I appreciate the support of the gentleman from Maine for this position. It lets us know that this is as bipartisan an issue as any one that I have ever been on. From day one it was Marcy Kaptur and others who have played a major role in this fight. 
   We have unions who are traditionally supporting the Democratic Party who are very deeply involved in this fight, right alongside small businesses, which quite generally have been Republicans. So this goes across the board. This is an issue, because it is the American people who are going to suffer the consequences. 
   We need to ask ourselves, if all of these groups are against it, who the heck is for this bill? 
   And this is a power grab. This is a classic power grab, and it's being headed by companies that are basically controlled by billionaires from the electronics industry. 
   Now, let's take a look at the electronics industry. What do they want to do? 
   The electronics industry has a product that they have to include various elements that are created by innovators and by inventors. This isn't like the pharmaceutical industry or a small business person or the biotech industry or the nanotech industry. Usually, what we've got with those industries, we've got one new invention or one creative improvement that serves as the basis for their profit. 
   No, when you're in the electronics industry you have a computer or some other type of piece of electronics that has three or four elements in it, and if an inventor comes up with something new, they either have to include it in their product, or they will be non-competitive.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Right. So what we have got is the electronics industry knows that if there are new ideas that improve things, they will have to include it in their product in order to remain competitive. They just don't want to buy those new ideas. They don't want to pay for it. They want to be able to steal those ideas and minimize the consequences of that theft. That's the ultimate purpose for what is going on here. 
   The electronics industry is different than these other industries. And as you can see by the wide scope and breadth of the opposition to this bill, the other industries know that this will be dramatically harmful to them. But it will permit the electronic industry billionaires to increase their profit. 
   And, by the way, what does the electronics industry do now? They are the ones who, of course, go to China and build their factories in China and increase the technology capabilities of that country, which is, of course, run by a regime that is the world's worst human rights abuser. These are electronics companies, some of which have gone to the dictatorship in China and helped them sort of restructure their computer systems so they can track down religious dissidents who are trying to use the Internet. This is the type of people who are behind this bill. 
   This power grab of the electronics industry would send even more technology to China and India. It would permit the people in Korea and Japan and others to be able to basically beat our inventors into the ground. And it has been our creative genius that has protected our country against these types of regimes in the past. 
   In fact, as Americans, we don't match people man for man. We don't match our competition with muscle power and sweat. We can beat the competition in this modern world by making sure our people have a technological edge over their competitors. The working people in those other countries may work for a pittance, but American workers should have the competitive edge. 
   People in the electronic industry who are behind this bill don't care one iota about those American workers or America's long-term competitiveness because they consider themselves multinational corporations. 
   Well, I am here to say that the coalition of Democrats and Republicans on the floor of the House opposing this bill do not consider ourselves multinationalists or globalists. We consider ourselves patriotic Americans, and we have got to watch out for the interests of the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. I appreciate that. 
   I think that we need to understand that there are so many parts of this bill, as Mr. Manzullo has pointed out, whether we are talking about damages or whether we are talking about challenges before and after the patent can be filed and hoops to be jumped through, each and every one of them designed basically to thwart the little guy, thwart the inventor. And, as I said, the group behind it, the electronics industry, their purpose, I believe, is to be able to promote the theft. 
   But what do they say? What do the people who are the proponents of this legislation say is their motive? They claim that we have to have this patent reform in order to harmonize the patent laws of the United States with those of the rest of the world. Harmonization. 
   Well, we have had the strongest patent protection of any country on this planet, which has guaranteed the success of our country and the high standard of living of our people. That is what we got from the strongest patent protection because we considered that strong protection of our rights the same protection that we would give for speech or freedom of religion or the other rights that we hold sacred. 
   Well, if we have the strongest patent rights in the world, patent protections in the world, and if we want to harmonize them with the rest of the world, that means we are going to decrease the protection of our citizens. 
   What would happen if we told our citizens in order to have harmony with the rest of the world's laws, we are going to meld them all together and harmonize our laws of freedom of speech and religion with the rest of the world and we would be told, well, maybe we could enjoy the freedoms now at the level of the people of Singapore or someplace like that? Well, there would be a revolt in this country if we tried to diminish the protections of our people to harmonize it with the rest of the world. But that is what they are doing for the economic freedom that we are talking about today. The economic rights of our people are being harmonized in terms of their ownership of their creation, their patents and innovations. They want to harmonize that with the rest of the world. 
   Well, if there should be one standard for the rest of the world, let them harmonize with our laws. Let us bring up their standards. The Japanese and the Europeans do have a different standard on this, and that is why the Japanese are incapable of creating new technologies. They just take what we have and try to improve it. 
   The fact is we have had the strongest patent protection rights in the world and we have thus had more innovation and a higher standard of living of any other people of the world. The common man here has had the opportunity that common people in other parts of the world do not have because of American technological superiority. We can't let those who profit already by setting up factories in China and other dictatorships that are totally contrary to our way of life to tell us they want to make even more money to be able to steal even the technology and the new ideas so that those factories over there will be able to produce the newest and cutting-edge technologies coming out of our innovators even before our innovators are able to commercialize it in the United States. 
   Well, perhaps if you are a corporate elitist, the idea of harmonizing our rights with the rest of the world and harmonizing our property and bringing down certain levels of protection makes sense. If you are a corporate leader who lives behind a gated community and you are not affected by the fact that American workers are becoming less competitive because we are sending our technology overseas, no, you don't understand that because you are in the corporate boardroom. But the American people understand that. And that is why the unions are against this bill. That is why we have a broad coalition of Democrats and Republicans against H.R. 1908. 
   What we have is a disguised destruction of the fundamental patent system that has been in place in our country for a long time, for over 200 years. As I read, it was part of our own Constitution. 
   Well, this attempt to steal the little guy's creation is not new to our country. Even with our patent protection, it has been a rough haul for our inventors. 
   There is a statue in the Capitol of the United States. There are many statues in the Capitol. My favorite statue is right downstairs. It is the statue of Philo Farnsworth. Anyone visiting the Capitol, I would suggest, should go see the statue of Philo Farnsworth. It's there with the rest of the heroes of freedom and a bunch of politicians who have made statues to themselves. 
   Philo Farnsworth was the quintessential American inventor, individual inventor. He was a poor person, of course, but had limited education, probably a master's degree. I'm not really sure what his education level was. But he came from a rural area in Utah, and through his own creative instincts and his understanding of physics and other theories and electronics, he was able early in the last century to fully understand how to create a picture tube. He was actually the ``father of television.'' 
   RCA at that time had spent hundreds of millions of dollars, hundreds of millions of dollars investigating, doing research, trying to find the secret of how you could turn radio waves into a television tube. They never were successful. 
   He discovered it. He was the one who had the breakthrough idea of how it could be done. Philo Farnsworth. And he wrote to RCA and said, I have discovered this. I understand you are doing a lot of research. I know how to do it. 
   And the head of RCA's research department came out all the way on a train to see Philo, and he went through his small laboratory and showed him what he had discovered. And it was with an understanding that Philo, perhaps a very nai 4ve understanding, was going to work with RCA and develop this picture tube so all of the American people would have now a whole new way of life with the television set. And television has changed our way of life. 
   The guy from RCA took all the notes, and he sped away on the train back to New York, saying, ``We're going to get right back to you so we can get moving on the development of this technology.''  
   Well, Philo waited and he waited, and there never was a phone call from New York. And guess what. He read in the paper a few months later that RCA had made a huge discovery, and it was the discovery of how to produce the television picture tube and how they had had this incredible breakthrough in their laboratories. 
   Philo Farnsworth fought for 20 years to get recognition that he was indeed the inventor of the picture tube. It was an incredible fight. David Sarnoff, an arrogant head of RCA, a corporate leader who could give a darn about little guys like Philo Farnsworth, ended up doing what? Instead of paying royalties and recognizing and giving credit to this wonderful inventor, he decided to smash him like a bug, decided to fight him and use every bit of the treasure that was available to RCA to beat this guy into submission, this little guy who thought he had the right to challenge the great David Sarnoff.     
   It went all the way to the Supreme Court. And God bless America, the Supreme Court decided for little Philo Farnsworth against one of the great arrogant corporate giants in America, David Sarnoff. 
   Unfortunately, Philo Farnsworth, by that time most of the patent time had run out, he never made much money from his great discovery that changed the world we live in. But I will tell you, today, as you go through the Nation's Capitol, you can take a look at the statue of Philo Farnsworth right here and you can understand that we pass laws here to make sure the rights of the little guy are protected, even when that little guy is in a fight with a powerful interest like RCA. David Sarnoff does not have a statue in this Capitol. So let us note this, that in this Capitol is the statue to the little guy and to the rights of the little guy. 
   Tomorrow we will face a bill, H.R. 1908, that is designed to smash down the little guys, the inventors, so that arrogant corporate giants can steal their technology, corporate giants who do business overseas who consider themselves globalists and multi-nationalists taking American technology overseas. That's what is at hand. That is the issue that is being discussed. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would call on my colleagues to join me and Marcy Kaptur and members of the Democrat Party and Republican Party who are watching out for the little guy tomorrow. Join with the universities and the unions and other corporate interests and manufacturers in the United States who are trying to protect intellectual properties so they can compete overseas. Join us in defeating the Steal American Technologies Act II, H.R. 1908. 
   And with that, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (WATER QUALITY INVESTMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chairman, my amendment would, very simply, prohibit government contracts in various water projects in terms of the Water Quality Investment Act from being provided to contractors who are hiring illegal immigrants. Among the many infrastructure treasures this Nation must guard, of course, is our water supply. And we want to ensure, if we are going to expend billions of dollars, taxpayer dollars, in improvements, that everyone the Federal Government is responsible for paying to work on these projects has a right to work here. 
   My amendment simply says that any recipient of a government grant or contract under this bill must use Social Security's basic pilot verification system to ensure that all employees are in this country legally. 
   The basic pilot program was expanded in 2003 and now covers 50 States. Many private employers who wish to be good corporate citizens already use the program. 
   This program is offered to every employer at no cost. When it comes to something as critical as our Nation's health and our water supply, this Congress has no excuse not to ensure that taxpayer dollars and government-funded jobs go to those who are in this country legally and who are legally entitled to get those jobs. The American people expect and deserve to have the Federal Government set an example for private industry when dealing with a system so essential to the health and well-being of our people. 
   Let us note that there is a lot of talk about prevailing wage going on in Congress as if we have to ensure that there is a higher wage given to people who work on government projects. Well, the very easiest way to do that is to ensure that contractors who work on government programs are not hiring illegal immigrants. 
   What we have here is a situation where a large number of people in this body are unwilling to confront the illegal immigration challenge at the expense of whom? The American working people whose jobs are being bid down in terms of the wages and the American taxpayers, who are, in this case, if we don't confront that problem, are going to basically have to pay higher taxes in order to pay for the same project. So, thus, we have the American working people and the American taxpayer both being hurt by not forcing employers to ensure that they are hiring legal workers for these various programs. 
   Now, I know the American people would agree with me, and I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, which is pro-working man and pro-taxpayer. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (WATER QUALITY INVESTMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chairman, I believe my amendment is germane. After all, we do add many such regulations on bills that we pass. They have to meet certain standards. This standard certainly is no different than many of the other standards. 
   It is just that this body refuses ever to involve themselves in anything that would stem the flow of illegal immigrants into this country and quit giving people an incentive to come here to take the jobs and the benefits that belong to the American people. And certainly this amendment, which is no different than many other types of restrictions that we place on government spending, is certainly germane to this bill. And, therefore, I would argue my case that it is germane. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (RECOGNIZING THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY YEAR OF THE FOUNDING OF THE PORT OF LOS ANGELES -- (House of Representatives - December 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Speaker, next week, on December 9, as we have mentioned today, the Port of Los Angeles, which I am proud to say is located in my district, will celebrate its 100-year anniversary. 
   Yes, the Port of Los Angeles has had a long and distinguished history. It was the location of one of the first railroads in Southern California. We are also proud of the crucial role played by the Port of Los Angeles in the battle for the Pacific during the Second World War. 
   Throughout its history, the Port of Los Angeles has been a harbinger of prosperity and economic growth, as well as an impetus for the engineering and technology development that we have noted. In August of 1958, for example, a cargo vessel named the Hawaiian Merchant delivered its first shipment of 20 cargo containers to the Port of Los Angeles, ushering in a cargo container revolution that has had an enormous impact on the world economy. 
   Let us note on this 100th anniversary that there was someone who played an important role in providing the infrastructure to the ports and to the transportation systems that serve the ports. Let us pay homage to Congressman Glen Anderson, who helped provide, with his influence in this House as chairman of the Transportation Committee, such support that gave us the infrastructure we needed to have the great port complex of Los Angeles and Long Beach. 
   When I first was a Member elected here, Glen Anderson was still serving here, and I was proud to call him my friend. He has left us a legacy that he can be proud of. 
   We've come a long way in these last 50 years, with the help of people like Glen Anderson. Those initial 20 cargo containers have grown to over 8.5 million cargo containers just last year. And as we noted, the combination of the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach represent the fifth largest port complex in the world. More than 43 percent of all goods arriving in the United States enter through this port complex. And I guarantee you that in every congressional district represented in this Congress, there is something there that has been brought through the international gateway, which is the Port of Los Angeles. 
   There is a challenge in this new century, several challenges, however. Madam Speaker, our greatest challenge is to improve the way that containers are moved through the port complex of Los Angeles and Long Beach. Over 70 percent of the containers now arriving in our ports are headed inland from Southern California to destinations and localities within the United States. Every day, thousands of these containers are hauled by truck from the port to inland rail depots. This results in unsafe road conditions, traffic jams, dangerous health conditions, pollution, and our freeways and our roadways are unacceptably crowded. And yes, that is unacceptable now. As container traffic grows, the situation will get worse unless we act. 
   If we continue with the current method of transporting those containers individually by truck system, the whole system will collapse as it pollutes and clogs Southern California's roads and freeways. That said, however, there is a new solution on the way, a new clean and efficient way of moving containers through the ports through inland railroad depot, a way that will revolutionize the process. This new approach has bipartisan support. That bipartisan support ranges from myself and Governor Schwarzenegger to my Democratic colleagues, Representatives Richardson and Oberstar. 
   The cutting-edge technology to which I refer is an electronic cargo conveyor system. Instead of being loaded onto trucks to sit in traffic, containers will be quickly sent to an interior rail depot utilizing clean electric mag-levlike technology, an electronic conveyor belt system of sorts. With container traffic being removed from our roads and our freeways, traffic and health conditions will dramatically improve. We will be able to quickly and cleanly move the cargo out of our ports and to consumer outlets throughout the United States. And the best part, Madam Speaker, is that it will cost less to build and run a new system like I have just described than to continue to pay to have containers shipped individually by truck. 
   The ports in Southern California will continue to prosper and lead the way as long as it is willing to innovate with the type of creativity reflected in the mag-lev system that I just discussed. I congratulate the Port of Los Angeles and its board of directors on their anniversary and the tremendous success of the last 100 years. 
   We have other issues as well, and let me just note one other issue as we know, and Ms. Harman has played a major role in trying to develop the security that we need at our ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. There are security needs and other infrastructure needs that will cost money. Whenever you have any benefit, it will cost. We need to face the cost of these improvements with the same creativity that I just discussed technologically that we need to do in the cargo movement. 
   The way that I would suggest, and I hope that on this anniversary that we note that, yes, Glen Anderson played an important role in getting Federal money for the ports. That is not an unending source of revenue. But if we were to charge a container fee and base our improvements in the ports, instead of on the taxpayers of the United States channeling money to our ports, that we instead charge those using the ports a reasonable container fee so that those who have set up manufacturing facilities in China and elsewhere will pay to utilize the ports, that container fee will not only be fair, but it will be  something that will provide us a new source of revenue in order to provide the security and infrastructure needs of the future. 
   So these two combination things, the new mag-lev technology conveyor belt system I described, and a new container fee which is basically a user fee for those using the ports, will be the type of innovation that will ensure that the Ports of Los Angeles, and yes, the port complex in Long Beach, has a great second 100 years, and that, again, this port complex will provide us with an example of innovation and forward thinking and economic prosperity that will serve all of the people of the United States. 
   Again, I congratulate the Port of Los Angeles on their 100th anniversary. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (MAN-MADE GLOBAL WARMING -- (House of Representatives - June 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. First, I would like to identify myself with the remarks that I have just heard from my two colleagues, and congratulate them on presenting to the people the hard facts that have not been faced in this country for over 30 years. And those hard facts are some of the basic reasons that we are in trouble today. 
   Mr. Speaker, I will preface my remarks tonight, and what I have to say tonight I would like to say totally is in parallel with the spirit of what was just said. But I preface my remarks to underscore, just as my colleagues would underscore their commitment. 
   While I adamantly reject the man-made global warming theory, I am committed to a clean and healthy environment, to purifying the air, to purifying our water and our soil, all of this for the sake of the people of this planet, especially the children of this planet, and especially my three children, Christian, Tristan, and Anika, and all the children of the world who we hope will receive a world that we hand them that will be a better world, a healthier world. And I have no doubt that unless we thwart the onslaught of the nonsense being foisted upon humankind in the name of man-made global warming, our next generation will be deprived of freedom, prosperity, and a healthy environment. 
   The radical environmental crusade behind the man-made global warming theory may well be well motivated. Motives and good intentions, however, do not count. What counts are facts. And when it comes to the facts about so-called man-made global warming, the public has been denied an honest debate. 
   Only 18 months ago, the refrain, ``Case Closed, Global Warming is Real,'' was repeated as if a mantra of some religious sect. It was pounded into the public's consciousness over the airwaves, in print, and even at congressional hearings. This was obviously a brazen attempt to end open discussion and to silence differing views by dismissing the need to take seriously contrary arguments by anyone, no matter how impressive his or her credentials might be, if that person happened to doubt global warming. 
   Just a short time ago, the Oregon Institute of Science and Medicine, the OISM, released the names of some 31,000 scientists who signed a petition rejecting the claims of human-caused global warming. Of the 31,072 Americans who signed, 9,021 had Ph.D.s; many of the 31,000 signers currently work in climatology, meteorology, atmospheric, environmental, and geophysical studies, astronomical studies, as well as the biological fields that directly relate to the climate change controversy. And note, of the 31,000 signatories, these signers are American scientists. 
   There are many prominent scientists throughout the world who are stepping up to expose the well-financed propaganda campaign behind the man-made global warming theory. But the views of these American scientists and those  of so many scholars and scientists throughout the world don't count. The debate is over. It has been declared over. Al Gore has his Nobel Prize, and the film An Inconvenient Truth has its Academy Award. So shut up, case is closed. 
   So what is this theory that now is so accepted that no more debate is needed or even tolerated? 
   Man-made global warming is a disturbing theory that the Earth began a warming cycle 150 years ago that differed greatly from all the other warming and cooling cycles in the Earth's primordial past. And over the life of this planet over the millions of years, there have been many, many such situations of warming and cooling, sometimes lasting 10 years, sometimes lasting hundreds of thousands of years, glaciers that went back and forth. 
   This warming cycle that we are now talking about and we are being told that it is unlike the warming cycle of all of those past warming and cooling cycles, this one we are told is tied directly to mankind's use of fossil fuels, as of course compared to all the other warming and cooling cycles even before mankind was present on the planet. 
   Basically, they are saying that our use of fossil fuels, again, basically oil and coal, are causing the Earth's temperature to change; and they are blaming oil and coal, which happen to be fuels that have powered our industries and made modern civilization possible. Fossil fuels, we are told, are rapidly increasing the level of so-called greenhouse gases in our atmosphere, the most prevalent of these greenhouse gases being CO  
   2, carbon dioxide. This increase in CO 
   2 we are told causes the warming cycle we are now supposedly experiencing. 
   This man-made warming cycle, according to the theory, is rapidly approaching a tipping point when the world's temperature will abruptly jump and accelerate with dire consequences, perhaps apocalyptic consequences, for the entire planet. Well, that is basically the global warming theory. 
   For skeptics of this hypothesis, the consequences of accepting this theory are far more dire than any of the predicted rise in temperature predictions: We will live with the consequences of the social engineering being touted as necessary to prevent man-made global warming.     
   It's a package. Accept the man-made global warming theory, and one is expected to accept the controls, regulations, taxation, international planning and enforcement, mandated lifestyle changes, the lowering of expectations, the limiting of consumer choice, and personal as well as family sacrifices that are necessary to save the planet from, well, from us. 
   It really takes a lot to frighten people into accepting such personal restrictive mandates that would result from implementing a global warming based agenda. People's lives will be changed if we accept this agenda as being real, and if we cave in to this onslaught of propaganda. People's lives will change, but it won't be a change for the better. 
   For example, jets are considered some of the worst CO  
   2 polluters, according to the theory. So, how will our lives be different when low-priced airfares are eliminated? Let me repeat that. Low-priced airfares to be eliminated. How will that affect our lives? And how about the restricting the number of flights, themselves? How will that affect our lives? 
   Oh, I guess we never thought about that. Well, we never thought about that because those clamoring for us to accept the man-made global warming agenda never mentioned the price that we have to pay, not just in dollars, but in the freedom that we have today to make such choices in our lives, choices, for example, when and how many times we should travel with our families and where we should travel. 
   What we do know about the man-made global warming fanatics is that they don't want us using our cars. They've hidden the fact about the airplane restrictions, but we do know they don't like us in our private cars. Private automobiles will be on the way out. They want us to be regulated into public transportation, and basically, we will have gone out of our cars and have limited air travel. 
   But don't worry. Don't worry about it because the rich and high government officials will still have private jets, Suburbans and limousines, because they will just buy carbon credits, which Al Gore will arrange for them, and he'll arrange it for them at a tidy profit for himself, of course. 
   Global warming and global warming predictions appear to be designed to strike fear into the hearts of those malcontents, those of us malcontents who won't willingly accept these mandates and these changes in our lifestyle that will be demanded of us. And who, for example, among us, and we know that there will be people who just won't accept the idea that we have to have higher food prices; or they won't accept the fact that we need less meat in our diet. 
   That's right. Man-made global warming fanatics want us to change our diet in a big way, not just low price airfare tickets, but our diet. 
   A 2006 report to the United Nations entitled Livestock's Long Shadow focuses right on the hind parts of cows. Livestock, the report claims, accounts for 18 percent of the gases that supposedly cause the Earth's climate to change, the warming of the Earth's climate. Cows are greenhouse gas-causing machines, according to this report. 
   Fuel for fertilizer and meat production and transportation, as well as the clearing of fields for grazing, produced 9 percent of the globe's CO  
   2 emissions, according to the report. 
   Cows produce ammonia, causing acid rain. And if that's not bad enough, all these numbers that I just mentioned are projected, in this report, are projected in the report's computer models that they will double by the year 2050. So not only is it bad today to eat meat, it's going to be so much worse by 2050, we've got to act now to get meat out of the diet. 
   Not only are they going to cut our personal transportation, but we can't even stay at home and have a barbecue. Heck, they're not even going to let us have a hamburger. 
   I'd point out that before the introduction of cattle to the United States, millions upon millions of buffalo dominated the great plains of America. They were so thick that you could not see where the herd began or where it ended. One can only assume that the anti-meat, man-made global warming crowd must believe that buffalo farts have some social redeeming value that's better than the flatulence emitted by cattle. 
   I have to be very careful about such jokes. I was making light of this supposition at a hearing about a year ago. And I suggested, in jest, that perhaps dinosaur flatulence changed the climate back in those ancient days. Well, it was reported, widely reported as if I was serious, which demonstrates something that we should all understand about the global warming debate. 
   The global warming debate has been totally dishonest. Anyone who could suggest that I was saying that as a serious matter was either a fool, or was intentionally portraying something that they knew was not to be true. 
   Yes, what we have here, of course, is steely-eyed fanaticism by those on the other side of this debate, and maybe they can't understand humor when they see it or hear it. Yes, this is an absurd theory to be talking about animal flatulence when we're talking about the future of the planet and the restrictions, massive restrictions on our way of life. 
   This would be absurd, but the deeper that one looks into this global warming juggernaut, the weirder this movement becomes, and the more denial in it is evident. 
   Ten years ago, for example, alarmists predicted that by now we would be clearly plagued by surging temperatures. In testimony before Congress 20 years ago, NASA's global warming guru, James Hanson, predicted CO  
   2 levels would shoot up the global temperatures by more than a third of a degree Celsius during the 1990s. 
   Well, we were warned that we'd soon be seeing rising sea levels. And you've all seen all of these predictions, rising sea levels, perhaps even our cities under water, drought and famine and increase in tropical diseases. Yeah, an increase in tropical diseases. Of course the only increase in tropical diseases we've seen 
   can be directly traced to the success of environmental extremists in banning DDT, which has resulted in millions of Third World children dying of malaria, something else that they were wrong about.  
   So what about Hanson's and others predictions of imminent global overheating? 
   Well, forget case closed. The question needs to be answered. And the answer is that Hanson's and the other predictions have turned out to be dramatically wrong. Temperatures during this last decade rose only one-third of the predicted jump, a modest 0.11-degree change. 
   Remember, Mr. Hanson has been so arrogant over the years that he has insisted that his opinions be emblazoned on government documents as the official position of NASA, rather than acknowledging that existing other opinions may be worthy of consideration. And now, we are finding out that the predictions made by Mr. Hanson, who doesn't want any other people's opinions even to be considered as part of an official NASA presentation, that this, Mr. Hanson and other self-anointed elitists have been wrong, dead wrong in their predictions of what should be happening right now. 
   Over the years, we've been led to expect an increased number of even more powerful hurricanes, for example. There would also be drought and melting ice caps. My beautiful Sierra Nevada mountains in California were due to heat up, dry up, brown up and burn, burn, burn, and we've been told this for almost 20 years now. 
   During the entire Clinton administration, scientists produced study after study predicting the horrific impact of the unstoppable onslaught of man-made global warming, which we were all led to believe by those studies would be overwhelming us right now. 
   Of course, if there was even a hint that the conclusion of their research wouldn't back up the man-made global warming theory, the scientists and researchers wouldn't get one red cent from the Federal research pool during the Clinton and Gore administration. 
   In a September 2005 article from Discovery magazine, Dr. William Gray, now emeritus professor of Atmospheric Science at Colorado State University and, more importantly, the former president of the American Meteorological Association, said that he had paid a price for his skepticism of man-made global warming. Quote, ``I had NOAA money for 30 years, for 30 some years,'' Dr. Gray said. ``And then, when the Clinton administration came in,'' and this is still part of the quote, ``and Gore started directing some of the environmental stuff, I was cut off. I couldn't get any money, any NOAA money. They turned down 13 straight proposals from me.'' 
   Here's from one of America's great, eminent meteorologists, and the Clinton administration just kept turning him down because he had expressed some skepticism about whether man-made global warming was a reality. Dr. Gray made the mistake of being a skeptic about global warming. And however he was skeptic about that, that made him wrong with the Clinton administration. 
   But he was right about hurricanes which were being blamed on global warming. Remember, we were told that global warming was going to cause more hurricanes. And Dr. Gray, one of the great meteorologists, said there's no reliable data available to indicate increased hurricane frequency or intensity in any of the globe's seven tropical cyclone basins.'' 
   So, with that type of skepticism, no matter what his credentials were, no matter how preeminent a scientist and respected scientist he was, he couldn't get a grant during the Clinton/Gore administration. So Dr. Gray was cut off. The predictors of gloom and doom were left to shout out their paranoid nonsense every time a hurricane was detected. 
   And just recently, one of those shouters, Tom Knutsen, research meteorologist for the National Ocean and Atmospheric Administration, that's NOAA, that's the ones who ended up not being able to give Dr. Gray any research grants, this gentleman, Mr. Knutsen, who was, during that time when Dr. Gray said there wasn't a relationship, he was a hurricane alarmist, suggesting there would be more and more hurricanes because of global warming, has now published a study in the Journal of Native Geoscience admitting that he was wrong. 
   For the record, he now says his studies indicate that warming is not to blame for more hurricanes, and that warmer temperatures, if they do come, will actually reduce the number of hurricanes in the Atlantic. He unequivocally stated that his most recent finding argues against this notion that we've already seen a dramatic increase in Atlantic hurricane activity resulting from greenhouse warming gases. 
   So here is a scientist with integrity. Dr. Gray, of course, was punished. He couldn't even get a research grant. But here we have a scientist who did get the grant and made wrong conclusions, but now he's stepping forward because he has integrity, to admit that he was wrong and now he has openly changed his mind. 
   Unfortunately, such scientific integrity did not always rise to the occasion. Perhaps it's because scientists saw the raw power exercised during the Clinton/Gore administration, which may well revisit us in the next administration if we don't watch out. 
   But there was raw power being exercised. Al Gore's first act as Vice President was to insist that William Harper be fired as the chief scientist at the Department of Energy. Why? Because he had uttered some words indicating that he was open minded about the man-made global warming theory, just like Dr. Gray. 
   Well, anybody who talks about that way, off with his head. No more position for you. That was back in 1993, the first year of the Clinton-Gore administration. So for over a decade, all we got was a drum beat of one-sided research setting the stage for a false claim of scientific consensus that we heard 18 months ago. Case closed. Case closed.     
   The argument is over. Global warming is real. 
   How many times did we hear that? Let us remember that refrain and how false it was and how dishonest it was. 
   Unfortunately, for all of those scientists who went along with the scheme back in the 1990s, now over a decade later there is a big problem. Contrary to what all of those scientists living on their Federal research grants predicted, the world hasn't been getting warmer. In fact, for the last 7 years when we were told there would be this dramatic increase in temperature, there has been no warming at all. Last year was colder, not hotter. Snow levels were high, temperatures have been low, and there are fewer hurricanes. 
   Furthermore, while there is some melting in the Arctic, which we hear about over and over and over again about the melting in the Arctic, which we need to sort of compensate that and balance that off with the fact that there is an actual ice buildup in the Antarctic, which is almost never stated during those global-warming's-real-the-Arctic-is-melting. What is happening, of course, in the Arctic is probably based--I can't say for certain; we need studies on this--but is probably based on ocean currents. But it is not CO  
   2-related global warming; otherwise, it would be a global impact on both ends of the planet. 
   After hearing about the extinction of the polar bear again and again, and it has been drummed into our heads, the polar bear--all of the things about the Arctic out there, showing the poor polar bears. A few weeks ago, we were treated to the spectacle of our government placing polar bears on the Endangered Species List even though almost every article about placing the polar bears on the Endangered Species List contained a caveat that the number of polar bears is actually expanding, and with some of the species of polar bears, it's a dramatic expansion. 
   There are more, not fewer, polar bears. Let me repeat that so everyone knows. There are more polar bears. Yet we are, because of the onslaught of this global warming nonsense that has colored people's vision by words rather than reality, we put the polar bear on the Endangered Species List even though their numbers are expanding. Unfortunately, the debate is over and the case is closed. So explaining the emerging obvious differences between reality and the theory need not be addressed. 
   Maybe that's why they kept saying ``case closed'' because the observable data that was going on was in such contrast to the predictions that were being made, this was the time they had to declare the case was closed or we would basically be able to see with our very eyes the contradiction in what they had predicted.  
   So what we need to do is to close our eyes, close our eyes and pretend that there are fewer polar bears. That's the way to do it. That's the way we should make policy, according to the scare-mongers. But the case is not closed. The gnomes of climate theory are now coming up with self-serving explanations and verbal maneuvers. 
   The first attempt to cover their tracks has been slow but ever so clever. The words ``climate change'' have now replaced the words ``global warming.'' Now, if we accept this, no matter what happens with the global weather pattern, whether it be cooler or hotter for 4 years or 5 years, could be cooler, could be hotter, it will still be presented by the global warming crowd as further verification of human-caused change. Thus, they can claim credit that no matter what happens, no matter what happens in the climate, their predictions are correct because it's climate change now and not global warming, even though for over a decade and a half that was drummed into us that they were so certain that it was going to be global warming. 
   Well, if we accept this shift of words, we know that we will be in a position now of being unable to intellectually say, well, there's not global warming like you predicted, so we actually are going to oppose and reject the oppressive policies that you are advocating to deal with the issue that you are describing. 
   But if they use the words ``climate change,'' how are we going to counteract their policy recommendations when now whatever happens to the climate, they can justify it based on climate change? Sorry, fellows. Do you really think the world and the United States is filled with morons? I mean, bait-and-switch is an old game, and we've seen it in car salesmen; and car salesmen, I might add, are paragons of virtue compared to this global warming crowd. 
   We just need to ask ourselves if a salesman keeps giving a strong pitch and claims something that later is found to be totally wrong, when does one stop trusting him? If he starts playing word games rather than admitting an error, isn't it reasonable to stop trusting him? If his prediction is that, well, this car is going to get 50 miles to the gallon and it only gets 5 miles to the gallon, isn't that really when we should stop trusting that used car salesmen? 
   Well, yes, Al Gore and Company, we need to let Al Gore and Company know that we have noticed that they are now using the words ``climate change'' instead of ``global warming.'' And they're not just sort of slipping it in. They are trying to, but we've noticed, and that has important meaning. 
   In and of itself that is an admission that they were wrong for over a decade in claiming that there would be global warming. Now it's climate change. Every time they use the word, it indicates they were wrong or they were lying before about how absolutely sure they were about what their predictions were and about what all of the statistics and what all of the research indicated. They were either lying or they were wrong. And every time they use the words ``climate change,'' it should reinforce us in understanding they were wrong or they were lying. 
   Perhaps instead of word games, they need to explain why what is happening in the real world today doesn't match what they all said was going to happen based on their case-closed, man-made global warming is real. Okay. They must realize that someone is bound to notice that last winter was a really cold winter. I mean, it was a cold winter and it has been unusually chilly. And now chilly weather seems to be the norm, and where we've not yet had a full analysis of last year's winter, full winter, and we are looking forward to seeing exactly what a full study of the temperature ranges around the world had for us last winter. According to the global warming crowd, we should have seen a dramatic increase in the temperatures last winter. We will see. 
   We are now seeing, of course, a beehive of activity. Those federally funded scientists who we mentioned are trying to save a modicum of credibility by readjusting their computers and coming up with some explanations that will keep the man-made global warming theory from being totally rejected but at the same time trying to explain away the current dichotomy between what they said would happen and then what is actually happening. 
   Some scientists have simply adjusted their computer models and are now claiming that the warming isn't going to happen now, it's going to happen 10 to 15 years from now. Oh. So we can keep giving them their research grants for the next 10 to 15 years and then something else may happen. 
   In fact, a much-detailed report is now predicting that the temperature of the sea around Europe and North America will slightly cool off in the next decade and the Pacific will be the same in its temperature. One recent article about the shift in scientific position heralded it's a ``10-year timeout'' for global warming. Well, however, we are warned, however, that after that 10 years, the global warming will start again. 
   You see, they don't ever have to admit their original theories were wrong. We had one scientist at NOAA who stood up and had the integrity to say, I was wrong. I applaud him for it. These other scientists, we need to take note that they seem to be incapable of suggesting that perhaps the research grants that they took during the Clinton administration had skewed their vision of what the reality was in terms of climate and the world. 
   To understand all of this nonsense, we need to seriously examine the basic assumptions of this gang of global alarmists who have been pushing this paranoid theory. 
   They believe excess amounts of man-made CO  
   2 are being deposited into the air and that this is what causes the greenhouse effect that warms the atmosphere. The carbon footprint that we hear about is referring to the amount of CO 
   2 released by any specific activity. The CO 
   2 causes the planet to warm, as we are told, until it reaches that darn tipping point when all hell breaks loose. That's what we're being told. That is the concept that every other extrapolation is based on. But it's wrong. It's dead wrong. It's absolutely wrong. It's based on CO 
   2 and its impact on the temperature of the planet. 
   Yet what we find more and more evidence of is that the rise in CO  
   2 in the past came after the rise in global temperatures. Not before. The increases that there have been in CO 
   2 on the earth and in the earth's history happened after the earth had warmed, and the scientists are trying to tell us it was the other way around. The reality has been observed in ice cores by prominent scientists, yet this fundamental challenge to the validity of the man-made global warming theory has gone unanswered by those who are screaming that this case is closed and that all discussion is off. 
   So let's talk about that. Why aren't these scientists like Mr. Hansen and others willing to debate the CO  
   2 issue? Why is it instead that they simply call names of people who are trying to ask questions and are skeptical about their theories? Well, they just keep repeating ``case closed'' or attacking not what the presentation of the ideas being presented, but instead attack, for example, myself in some nonsensical way as if I believe dinosaur farts changed the world's climate. That is about as dishonest a debate as you can have, yet we are told the issue of climate change now, global warming, is so important to the future of the world. Well, okay. Let's talk about the CO 
   2. Let's have a debate on that issue. 
   To cite one expert's findings, and we will just leave that for the record, Tom Scheffelin of the California Air Resources Board stated on November 5, 2007, that ``CO  
   2 levels track temperature changes between 300 to 1,000 years after the temperature has changed. CO 
   2 has no direct role in global warming; rather, it responds to biological activity which responds to climate changes.'' 
   So what causes this warming in the first place? If it is not the CO  
   2, all of these people were telling us that it is the CO 
   2 that's caused the temperature to change and now we're in for it because the levels of CO 
   2 are going up. Well, what did cause the temperatures to change if it wasn't CO 
   2? 
   Well, the best explanation I have heard is activity on the sun, and that would explain why we see parallel temperature trends as those trends that are on earth; we see those same trends going on on Mars and Jupiter. Are these people trying to tell us that they've got a problem with some sort of CO  
   2 on Jupiter and Mars as they  have their changes in the climate that sort of parallel what's going on in the earth? Well, Mars and Jupiter have something in common with us. They're part of our planetary system, and if something is happening on the sun, it will affect them as well as us. 
   So that, too, is an argument, by the way, that's totally being ignored by the alarmists. After all, what new controls or new taxes or new regulations will they be able to foist on us if it's determined that the sun and not our sports cars are causing the problem of a warmer weather, if there is warmer weather.     
   The fact is that man-made global warming and the community that supports man-made global warming are jumping through hoops, bending over backwards, struggling to find one glint of new information to cover for their arrogant attempt to stampede humankind into Draconian policies. 
   The government-financed man-made global warming propaganda campaign has been, and continues to be, a cacophony of gibberish presented as scientific explanation. I've already given specifics as to what needs to be discussed, and instead, they ignore any type of specific challenge and go to personal attacks. 
   And their explanations, for example, are left to people like Al Gore, and, let's face it, Al Gore is having a little trouble right now in telling us why his predictions have been wrong. 
   The CO  
   2 premise has been based that the whole global warming theory is wrong. Al Gore needs to confront that and argue his case. The methodology, by the way, that has determined ``global warming'' has been wrong. The observations have been wrong, and let me add, the attempt to shut down the debate has been wrong. 
   Now, I remember Al Gore labeling me as a Stalinist. He used the word ``Stalinist'' to refer to me, because when I chaired the Subcommittee on Research and Science in the House, I insisted that both sides be presented and that expert witnesses be expected to address each other's points and contentions. To him, that's Stalinism, and I would suggest that the propaganda campaign of the man-made global warming alarmists has much more in common with Stalinism than does insisting that both sides of the issue be heard at a congressional hearing. One has to really believe that he or she has a corner on the truth to make such a complaint that Stalinism is having both sides presented and addressing each other's points. 
   Of course, Al Gore's documentary, ``An Inconvenient Truth,'' as suggested by its own title is to be taken as the truth. Well, I won't go into the numerous debatable points and outright errors of that film, but something far worse is uncovered than just the errors of his film. In the pseudoscience and scientific documentary--yes, there were in that documentary, ``An Inconvenient Truth,'' there are numerous film segments of climate and environmental incidents, sort of like National Geographic footage, to add credibility to the alleged scientific points that supposedly were being documented. 
   Specifically, the film portrays a dramatic cracking and breaking away of a huge portion of the polar icecap. The scene is awesome and somewhat overwhelming and leaves the audience with the feeling that they've witnessed a massive historic occurrence. 
   Unfortunately, it's all fake. This is not grand, firsthand photographic evidence. It is not National Geographic footage of a huge breaking away of a portion of the icecap. Instead, what the audience is looking at is a great example of special effects. It's not the icecap. It's Styrofoam that you're seeing. That's right, Styrofoam, Styrofoam special effects trying to fool us into thinking we're seeing something happening in the icecap. By the way, isn't Styrofoam an oil-based product? Isn't there some sort of a carbon footprint there? 
   Well, Mr. Gore has not commented on this depiction. Maybe it is inconvenient for him to comment because it may hurt his credibility. After all, it is not getting warmer, as he predicted, so maybe he has based his theories on a Styrofoam model that doesn't work. 
   The first time I met Al Gore was in my first term back in 1989-1990. Al Gore, then a United States Senator, marched into the Science Committee room, followed by a platoon of cameras and reporters. He sat in front of our committee demanding that President Bush--that's George W's dad--declare an ozone emergency. And he waved a report in his hand as evidence that there was an ozone hole opening up over the northeast of the United States. 
   A few days later, the report touted by Senator Gore was found to have been based on faulty data, data collected by one so-called researcher, flying in a single-engine Piper cub with limited technology and no expertise. The emergency declaration the senator called for would have had severe negative economic consequences on the people who live in the northeast part of the United States. 
   Now, does anyone detect a pattern here? Such scare tactics, Chicken Little-ism, based on false information, of course, isn't new. We have many past examples of this nonsense being portrayed as science. 
   In 1957, the FDA recalled 3 million pounds of cranberries. I remember as a young person that my mother took the cranberries off the table for Thanksgiving and Christmas and told me because they cause cancer. Well, a few years later, of course, it was admitted it was a total mistake; sorry, it was a mistake. Of course, a tremendous price was paid by a large number of our farmers who went broke. 
   Then, of course, there was the scare over cyclamate used in everyday items like soda, jams, ice cream. It was very sweet and extremely low in calories. Cyclamate generated enormous profits because it was a product of research by our industry, but then in the early 1970s, the FDA banned cyclamate as a cancer hazard. Well, come to find out, the rats in their study had been force fed the equivalent of 350 cans of soda a day, and only eight of the 240 rats that they crammed all this soda in got sick. It was a faulty test, and eventually, after years, the truth finally prevailed, and it was officially recognized that cyclamate does not cause cancer. Canada, by the way, never banned cyclamate. Our northern buddies, I guess, couldn't get themselves to force feed those rats. 
   Well, the FDA did take back its negative finding; however, great damage was done. This episode had serious consequences. It was the cyclamate ban that led to the introduction of high fructose corn syrup, with the obesity and the health problems that have come with high fructose corn syrup. So, yes, another scare tactic, another American industry decimated, another rotten theory with unintended consequences foisted upon us. 
   The next example of fear mongering with pseudo science came on February 26, 1989. On that evening, February 26, 1989, Americans tuned in to ``60 Minutes'' and heard Ed Bradley say, ``The most potent cancer-causing agent in our food supply is a substance sprayed on apples to keep them on the trees ..... '' And he goes on to say basically that the children are being put at risk by eating these apples that have alar on them, and that story snowballed out of control. Meryl Streep testified before Congress with all this basically pseudo-scientific nonsense. Parents ended up tossing apples out the window. Schools removed applesauce from the cafeteria, replacing of course the applesauce with more safe and nutritious substances like ice cream and pudding. 
   There was only one small problem. Alar, which is what was on the apples, didn't cause cancer, and the study that was released was based on bad science. Twenty-thousand apple growers in the United States, of course, suffered enormous financial harm because of this, and of course, when the public was so frightened, the alarmism was noted that it was a very successful tool and people could be scared into accepting policy if we just scared them. People saw that when they saw what a stampede happened because of this one story on alar. 
   So then comes Three Mile Island, the Three Mile Island incident, the so-called nuclear disaster which ended any expansion of nuclear energy in America. Three Mile Island is the prime example of how devastating pseudo-science scare tactics can be, even if there is no substance to the hysteria. In this case, our country is now heavily dependent on foreign oil, while France has developed a thriving  nuclear infrastructure. The French have learned how to reprocess uranium. We have learned how to buy more energy from abroad. 
   Just remember, Three Mile Island is a nuclear plant where an operational mishap, in which no one was hurt or put in danger, was portrayed as a deadly accident putting millions of people and their lives in jeopardy. Well, no one has yet to show me that one person's life was shortened by the Three Mile Island incident. 
   Coupled with Jane Fonda's movie called ``The China Syndrome,'' which had just been released, the Three Mile Island incident was a major disaster, a major public relations disaster for the nuclear industry. It was used to terrify the American people into rejecting nuclear energy as a means of producing clean, reliable, domestically fueled electric energy. 
   Ironically, nuclear power is probably the most effective means of producing power with no carbon footprint, no CO  
   2. Yet the radical environmentalists
   still block any attempt to expand the use of nuclear energy, even as we expand our dependency on foreign oil, on oil that is produced by people who hate us. Again, it was a total con job and has had a horrible impact. 
   And what about that ozone hole over the Antarctic? We were told it would continue to grow and grow and it would take decades to get it under control. Boyce Rensberger, director of the Knight Fellowship at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, points to evidence that the ozone concentration is a cyclical event, expanding and contracting the ozone throughout the eons of time. It's just part of a natural cycle according to this scientist from MIT. 
   So here is a scientist from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology telling us the current ozone depletion is simply part of a recurring cycle, not the result of chlorofluorocarbons, as we were told. In layman terms, he's telling us that the gigantic expense of shifting away from aerosol was a waste for America. We're talking about billions of dollars here. The ozone hole closed on its own. It was just part of a cycle. If it wasn't, it would be much different than it is today. 
   Then there is acid rain, of course. Who can forget the frightening threats that acid rain posed to us just 20 years ago? Acid rain was supposed to decimate our forests, destroy the fresh water bodies, and erode our buildings and sidewalks. Well, whatever happened to acid rain? Well, that theory, too, proved to be an extreme stretch of the truth. 
   President Reagan was pummeled without mercy for his unwillingness to take monstrously costly action aimed at thwarting acid rain. He insisted on waiting for an in-depth study to be completed, and he was vilified for his insistence on legitimate scientific verification. 
   Well, a 10-year study by the National Acid Precipitation Assessment Project was submitted to Congress in 1990. It minimized the human impact of acidity of water in the northwest and the northeast of the United States. The issue then died quickly and quietly, and no one ever apologized to Ronald Reagan. We haven't heard about acid rain. If they were right, we should have been hearing about it all this time. 
   Instead, of course we've been hearing about something else which is much easier to scare people with, global warming. And of course, the last one before global warming that I'd like to mention is the most pitiful of all. Yes, an alarmist scheme which made the cover of Time magazine 30 years ago. 
   Just 3 decades ago, scientists and politicians were frantic about global cooling. We were told the Earth was entering a new ice age. Unfortunately for the scare mongers, the temperature did not plummet and the oceans did not freeze. In fact, it was getting a bit warmer, and during the 1980s and 1990s it did get a little bit warmer. There was an up-and-down cycle. It happens in the Earth, has always happened. 
   Well, some of those people, some of those scientists and others who were talking about global warming, well, they've changed their words, and of course, you guessed it, global cooling became global warming. Almost overnight global cooling was rejected, and then there became global warming, and now, of course, global warming is changing to climate change.     
   So, the scare tactics are nothing new; it's a tried and true method. They've seen it ever since Alar, how people can be stampeded, and then policies can be foisted off on people. Unfortunately, the long-term consequences will be very damaging, very, very damaging for the next generation, just as the instances that I've just described have been damaging for our country. Here, we don't have nuclear energy to help us through this crisis, and we've been left at the mercy of Arab producers of oil, many of whom don't like us and don't like our way of life. 
   Of course, our kids are being lied to in a big way to make sure they will be able to be fooled in the future, to prepare them to make the sacrifices that are necessary. Well, I often ask students from my district, from southern California, who come here to visit whether they think that 45 years ago, when I went to high school in southern California, whether or not at that time the air was cleaner or dirtier than it is now. A huge percentage of the students from southern California, young kids who I see from my district, in particular, believe that the air quality 45 years ago in southern California was dramatically better than it is today. When I tell them that what they believe is 100 percent wrong, that the air is dramatically cleaner today in southern California, you can see the frustration in their eyes; they have been lied to in a big way. 
   The big lie their generation has been fed is that the environment is going the wrong way and that they have to give up their freedom, that we have to give up our national sovereignty, and that they have to give up their expectations of certain things in their life because the future is bleak because everything about the environment--the air, the water, the land--are all getting worse when, in fact, there has been tremendous progress made. 
   And let me tip my hat to the environmentalists on this, and that is, yes, there has been regulation, that some of the cleaning, perhaps most of the cleaning that we've experienced we've seen as a result of the fact that government and liberal Democrats who push some of these reforms got them through and has helped clean the air, the water and the land. And for anyone not to admit that I think would be disingenuous on our part. 
   But the fact is that our children are now being told that this man-made global warming is going to devastate the whole planet. They might as well not look forward to anything at all unless they buy into all of this agenda, and all of the controls that are being advocated and the bringing down, basically, of their expectations of their life, no travel as much as you--you don't expect low air fares like your parents had. No. Unfortunately, it doesn't get much worse than that when you're telling young people to be that pessimistic. 
   Dr. John Christy, a professor of Atmospheric Science at the University of Alabama at Huntsville, wrote recently, ``I remember as a college student at the first Earth Day being told it was a certainty that by the year 2000 the world would be starving and out of energy.'' Dr. Christy goes on to say, ``Similar pronouncements made today about catastrophes due to human-induced climate change sound all too familiar and are all too exaggerated for me, as someone who actually produces and analyzes climate information.'' 
   We are told that polar bears are dying, but of course most populations of polar bears are thriving. We are told that polar ice caps are melting, but the Antarctic ice is actually growing. Hurricane Katrina was supposed to be only the first of many horrendous hurricanes to hit the United States within a few years, all caused by, of course, the warming of the climate, which is, of course, brought on by the CO  
   2 emissions that we've had from the use of fossil fuels, never mind the fact that a hurricane of equal force to Katrina had actually hit the area 100 years before when there was a lot less CO 
   2 in the air. And now, of course, since Katrina, totally contrary to the predictions, there hasn't been another strong hurricane season since Katrina, which totally is in contrast to the rhetoric that we heard 2 years ago. But of course we're told, never mind, the case is closed, you can't argue about it anymore.  
   An honest debate is long overdue, yet we see an attempt to shut down the debate. So what are the issues which need to be addressed in an honest debate? I mentioned a few already. First and foremost, my colleague in the other Chamber, Jim Inhofe, has pointed out that man-made global warming theory, especially the part concerning CO  
   2 and the so-called ``tipping point,'' is all based on computer models. And computer models are often changed to fit the theory. So let's take a look at the facts, get off of the computer models, and take a look at the facts. Does increased CO 
   2 come from warming, or is it the other way around? By the way, what I'm told is that the solar activity heats the ocean water somewhat; and cooler ocean water absorbs CO 
   2, warmer ocean water means that there will be more CO 
   2 in the air. And if that's not the case, let's debate it, let's find out. 
   Let's examine the issue of warming itself. The man-made global warming advocates claim that there is a 1.3 degree rise in global temperature since 1850. Yet it's widely known, and right in the hearings on the Science Committee they bring in their charts. Here's the thing in 1850. And here you see up here it's 1.5 degrees warmer now, 150 years later, than it was in 1850. 
   Well, it is widely known that 1850 marked the end of a 500-year decline in the Earth's temperatures known as the ``Mini Ice Age.'' So if one uses 1850 as a low point, as a baseline, isn't that totally dishonestly magnifying the importance of a 1.3 degree rise in temperature? Right? We're starting from the lowest base. And, by the way, again, that needs to be addressed. I've asked this question numerous times. Global warming alarmists never will confront any of the basic scientific challenges to what they're saying and instead go to ad homonym attacks. Well, people can mention that they think somebody's looney, that's fine, that's all right, as long as we couple it with here is where we disagree, and let's talk about where we disagree. Instead, we've heard, he's looney, case closed. Don't talk about it, shut up, and accept what we have to say. 
   So, what about the process that collected and analyzed the data which we now are being told supports and proves the man-made global warming theory? The Select Committee on Economic Affairs under the British Parliament had much to say about the methodology about the much-heralded U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, or the IPCC, on which much of the man-made global warming theory has been resting on their supposed findings. And the Parliament Commission in Britain said, ``We have some concerns,'' the parliamentary committee reported, ``about the objectivity of the IPCC process, with some of its emissions scenarios and summary documentation apparently influenced by political considerations.'' Shortly after this criticism, Edward Wegman from George Mason University found several problems with the statistical method and peer review process of the IPCC. 
   At this time, I will place my remaining remarks in the Record and I would hope that my colleagues or anyone listening who would like to read this would look into the Congressional Record and read the rest of this presentation. 
   With that said, I appreciate the Chair granting me this hour to talk directly to my colleagues and to the American people, through the Congressional Record.  
   Then, a February 2008 report by Kesten Green and J. Scott Armstrong for the National Center for Policy Analysis found glaring problems in the IPCC's 2007 report. 
   At a minimum, the IPCC ignored just under half of widely accepted forecasting principles. At worst, they violated over 3/4 of those principles. Sterling Burnett of the Washington Times probably sums it up the best: ``Several assessments of the IPCC's work have shown the techniques and methods used to derive its climate predictions are fundamentally flawed.'' How are we supposed to take them seriously in the face of such lunacy? This isn't science. It's comedy. 
   The National Policy Center was similarly distressed. Its reports on the IPCC found unreliable data and forecasting models, as well as politically motivated forecasters. Peer reviewers of the study were few in number and often had ties to the original authors of the IPCC study. Any academic will tell you that is unacceptable. But nevertheless we are told to sit down and shut up, case closed, game over. 
   And Al Gore's movie isn't the only example of docudrama presented as gospel truth. As recent as May 5 of this year, the public was treated to yet another example of intentionally distorted visions. I am referring to an NBC program that included a view of the North Pole and the melting of the ice caps. As the reporter speaks, the camera pans over the ice as penguins cling to a small ice patch in the middle of the water. Touches your heart, doesn't it? Well, there is a problem. There are no penguins at the North Pole. Penguins live exclusively in Antarctica, that is the South Pole. But maybe we should give NBC the benefit of the doubt, maybe the penguins moved north. After all, climate change is happening in the South Pole too, except that there the ice is growing, not shrinking. Hmm. Well, that's why we call it ``climate change'' and not ``global warming,'' I suppose. I might add that NBC has removed the scene from its online video feed. 
   Carbon dioxide is, in fact, like the penguins. It's being falsely pictured. It is being portrayed as a pollutant; in fact, it makes things grow, and it is not toxic to humans. After all, we exhale it with every breath. In the distant past the earth had much more CO  
   2 in the air, perhaps as a result of volcanoes, but at that time we had abundant animal life, dinosaurs and lots of plants for them to eat. CO 
   2 is today pumped into greenhouses to make tomatoes grow bigger and better. Nevertheless, we are now presented with such loony ideas like sequestration or carbon credits that only enrich the alarmists. This is only possible with a public that has been frightened into accepting totally false information about CO 
   2. Let me state that I do support efforts that reduce pollution, particulates that do have a negative impact on the environment and human health. I support technologies that reduce these materials. If we are to have a debate on saving the environment, that is what we should be focusing on. 
   Mr. Speaker, this old world has had many cycles of warming and cooling, probably the result of solar activity, perhaps in the distant past volcanoes, the ice caps on Mars and Jupiter go back and forth, just as glaciers have gone back and forth. But such a powerful and mysterious force as the weather can be frightening. We need not be frightened, hoodwinked into giving authority to our own government, much less the U.N. or a global power--the power to control our lives in the name of manmade global warming, or climate change, or whatever they want to call it. Let us not let the alarmists take this country down the wrong path. Let's let the children of this country and planet have the freedom and prosperity we enjoyed, and not give it away to hucksters who would frighten us into giving up our birthright in the name of saving the planet. Sounds noble, but it's just a trick, a hoax. The greatest hoax of all.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this resolution. But, as this debate progresses, we should be proud of the sincere expressions of concern by our colleagues on both sides of the aisle and both sides of this resolution, for the lives and well-being of America's defenders who are now at risk in order to protect our country, our communities and our families. 
   All of us have been to heartbreaking wakes, funerals, burials; all of us have gone to the bases to see off our Reservists and our National Guardsmen and to wish them Godspeed; and all of us have been on the tarmac to greet them when they return, sometimes having lost comrades, killed or wounded. All of us want to do what is right for our defenders and for the future of our country. 
   So we need to be extraordinarily careful. Whatever we do today honors their efforts and their sacrifice. We should not be the authors of a policy that ensures the lives of these American heroes have been lost in vain. If at the end of this episode our country is at greater risk, then indeed their lives will have been lost in vain. 
   I am supporting this last effort, this last chance, if you will, to see that our commitment to Iraq will not result in failure. A failure now will have consequences that are worse than the price that we are now paying in blood and treasure. We do not have the option of walking away without consequences. No amount of midwest corn pressed into ethanol will allow us to ignore the Middle East. 
   Helping establish moderate democratic governments in the Middle East is not just a favorite of the people there, but it is an imperative to our own prosperity and security. Our dependency based friendships with oil-rich yet dictatorial regimes has set the parameters for the fundamental decisions American leaders have made. It has skewed our ability to be a force for freedom and progress. And it is freedom and progress that shield us from the whims of feudalistic, corrupt despots and religious megalomaniacs. It is the onslaught of freedom that will change that reality that we are now dependent upon. 
   That is what we had to deal with, and now we have come to this moment of decision. I wish it were not so. But it is a sad reality that what is right is usually not easy. The right course is, in the long term, usually frustrating and heart-wrenching. There are stalls and reverses to every historically significant event and undertaking. 
   There are always those who walk away when the road gets rough, who cannot see the end and when uncertainty looms. If one seeks certainty, bold actions will never happen. Only if we are bold to our enemies and steadfast will we ever succeed in any international endeavor. 
   The current conflict in Iraq has several dimensions; and, yes, it is between the Sunnis and the radical Shiite sects of Islam, a bloody Janus, with one face to Tehran and the other to Riyadh. 
   But don't be fooled, Mr. Speaker. The murderers, torturers and the haters on both sides revile the United States. The sword of Sadr and the bombs of al-Qaeda have turned on each other, but they both have a dream that is close to their hearts, and that dream is a nightmare to those who cherish freedom and to those who stand with liberty and seek comity among the people of the world. That macabre nightmare is the removal of the United States influence from the Muslim world. 
   You see, there is another force in Iraq and throughout that part of the world, where the majority of people are guided by the visions of the prophet Mohammed. Those of whom I speak are those Muslims who desire liberty and justice, who want government to be elected and directed by the people, who do not want to live their life in fear and would choose a positive relationship with the western world. 
   They are there, as we have witnessed in one of the most devout Muslim countries of the world, Afghanistan. It was not the American soldiers but the Afghan people themselves who drove out the Taliban and al-Qaeda from their country. Similarly, moderate Muslims, people of good will all over the Middle East, and they are there and they tremble that America will lose its resolve and retreat before a radical form of Islam. 
   An American retreat condemns them to suppression under the heels of fanatic Muslims who hate our way of life  and are willing to murder anyone who suggests that Islam and the West can live in peace with one another and that we can respect each other's faith and build a better, more peaceful and, yes, a freer world. 
   Mr. Speaker, if the sole superpower cannot stabilize Iraq, we are not a superpower. If we cannot thwart such a gang of bandits and savages as we face in Iraq, who will stand with us anywhere? Who will be our ally? We must not lose in Iraq. 
   But what does that mean? That means we must not leave that country defeated and in retreat or we and our families will lose and in the short run pay a horrible price. Yes, if we retreat from Iraq, these ghouls who kill civilians, who would kill civilians and are currently killing civilians by the tens of thousands, they will follow us home and they will be emboldened. 
   The sides are chosen, the game is in play. We will determine, not the terrorists or the radical lunatics, who stands and who falls, who marches forward and who retreats. All of this will be determined by our military capabilities, our technological advantages, but even more so by our will, by our desire and by our sure grit. 
   What we do today makes the future. We choose how it will be shaped. 
   I am reminded of General Petain, the French commander who fought the Germans at the Battle of Verdun. Some attribute the phrase ``they shall not pass'' to him. Well, he rallied the French people to that German onslaught. But, 20 years later, he capitulated to Nazi Germany almost without a fight, because he and the people of France viewed the Second World War as not worthy of the price necessary to prevent a Nazi victory. 
   Well, did that defeatism and appeasement, what did it do? The cost was unimaginable. 
   Let us today not make this severe misjudgment again about the magnitude of the downside of retreating before an evil force that threatens the West. There will be a cost with the retreat. 
   So let us note that what we do in Iraq will determine if the West will truly stand behind any ally of freedom and any enemy of radical Islam. Let us make sure there is hope in the Middle East and throughout the world.  
   Mr. Speaker, let us today not make this severe misjudgment again about the magnitude of the down side of retreating before an evil force that threatens the West. There will be a cost if we retreat. Many in this Chamber supported military interventions around the world during the 1990s, including numerous civil wars, situations from which they now claim the United States should steer clear. However, the consequences of withdrawal from Bosnia or Haiti pale in comparison to withdrawal from Iraq. 
   What happens in Iraq determines if the West will truly stand behind democratic government in the Middle East and elsewhere in the Islamic world. Moderate Muslims must have confidence in our ability to triumph over our fears, to withstand humanitarian impulses to simply disengage from conflict, not to give in to force and pressure when applied by an enemy. Otherwise, we lose. The world loses. The moderates of the Islamic world will never prevail against this evil unless we are with them and have courage and persevere, unless we are willing to hold the line, until the moderate forces in the Islamic world can take up the fight with a reasonable chance of victory. 
   On the flip side, only a defeat of radical Islam will bring peace to that troubled region. A loss of faith in America's ability to persevere in the Middle East would be a catalyst for catastrophe. That region in chaos would disrupt the entire world economy. Shifts of power would channel enormous resources into the hands of the enemies of Western civilization, enemies of the United States. It's a frightening picture that doesn't need to happen. 
   How is this different than a year ago? The difference is 1,000 American lives lost in a distant, foreign land. America is war weary. I too am weary. Every story of another young person, blown apart, rips at my heart. Those Americans who have gone are volunteers, heroes all. We owe it to them not to call it off and change direction in haste. To withdraw quickly, without honor, that would indeed mean their lives were lost in vain. It would mean the next front line battle will be the home front. 
   I, then, am one who is not anxious to declare defeat and retreat from Iraq. I am willing to give the Iraqi people a while longer, a slot of time, to step forward and meet the bloody, yet historic, challenge that faces them. We can't do it for them, but we can, as the world's leading free nation, give them this chance. Otherwise, we are clearly not a leading nation at all. We are too weary to lead. That is not the America I know. Today we define ourselves, to the world, and to our children. We must have a commitment to our ideals and courage. 
   America has a crucial role to play in this world and we are America. Let us not fail in this our historic responsibility.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (HONORING THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE AERONAUTICS RESEARCH ACCOMPLISHMENTS EMBODIED IN ``THE BREAKING OF THE SOUND BARRIER'' -- (House of Representatives - October 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Lampson and Mr. Feeney for their hard work they have been doing here, not just on this legislation but overseeing America's space program. You certainly have my respect and my support, and I'm happy today for their support for this legislation. 
   This bill takes note and honors America's historic aeronautic accomplishments on the 60th anniversary of one of our great aviation milestones, that of achieving mach 1, better known as breaking the sound barrier. 
   It also honors those American scientists and technologists who conceived and designed the Bell XS-1, as well as the courage of the hero who flew the plane, General Chuck Yeager of West Virginia. 
   The leadership of Larry Bell of Bell Aircraft and John Stack of NACA, which is the predecessor of NASA, are also recognized and applauded here today. 
   The sound barrier was not called a barrier for nothing. As an aircraft approaches the sound barrier, many of the subsonic rules of aerodynamics change radically. Conventional airplanes that had flown close to mach 1 before that, and they had done this mainly when they were diving, were known to have shaken violently and quite often lost control. On that morning of October 14, 1947, the principles of supersonic flight were still not proven. It was unknown whether an airplane could surpass the speed of sound and survive. 
   The XS-1 was pushing the envelope and it was dangerous. Behind the plane, it was really a rocket, as described, a rocket with wings, which is sort of like the plane I have here. Behind that lay the hard work and dedication of pioneering American scientists and engineers who were to write the book on supersonic design, beginning with the XS-1 project. 
   The XS-1, a bullet with wings, as they say, was the first high-speed aircraft built purely for aviation research purposes, and the XS-1 project was destined to demonstrate that controlled, sustained flight was possible at supersonic speeds. 
   In addition, this bill honors Chuck Yeager of West Virginia and all that he represents in America's experimental aeronautics programs. Besides not knowing whether the aircraft would break the sound barrier without breaking apart, no one knew whether the human body could survive the kinds of forces Yeager was about to undergo. He was one of the best and the bravest, and he was, as Tom Wolfe described him, an individual with the right stuff. 
   Not only did he reach mach 1 on that October morning at Edwards Air Force Base, but he has repeated that on many occasions since, including October 1997 on the 50th anniversary of his flight. His life has been an inspiration to generations of young Americans and, yes, to young people throughout the world. 
   And so on that October morning, American expertise in aeronautic science and technology, and its human skills and experience in flight, were put to the test and came together to tear down the sound barrier wall and lead the way to a new era of aviation and to the space age beyond. 
   To continue that tradition and the tradition of these pioneers, I will be introducing an aeronautics and space prize scholarship bill this week. This legislation will create a National Endowment for Space and Aeronautical Technology Development, and it will include a scholarship program, but its primary mission is to provide prizes for those who break technology barriers and enable the further exploration and utilization of space. Certainly, Chuck Yeager would have won one of these prizes. 
   So I would ask my colleges to join Bart Gordon, Ralph Hall, Bud Cramer and others who are in this in bipartisan support for creating the National Endowment for Space and Aeronautics Technology Development. 
   I would also ask my colleagues to join me tonight in supporting H. Res. 736, honoring the 60th anniversary of this great milestone in aeronautics and space technology development. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (10,000 TEACHERS, 10 MILLION MINDS SCIENCE AND MATH SCHOLARSHIP ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 362. Let me first congratulate Chairman Gordon for the leadership that he is providing, along with Ranking Member Hall, and let us note that since the change of the guard here in the House of Representatives a few months ago, we have had an exemplary approach to bipartisanship and a positive spirit that we have seen in the Science Committee, and this legislation reflects that positive atmosphere and working environment that we have in the Science Committee. 
   H.R. 362 seeks to address the lack of qualified teachers for math and science in K-12 throughout our country. I support H.R. 362 because it is not just a giving of something to someone, a scholarship, but it is actually providing young people who may not have the means to go to school and to get their education. It requires 5 years of service as a science and mathematics teacher in order for them to get this scholarship. I see that as a two-for, if not a three-for or a four-for, because the kids are going to benefit, the schools are going to benefit, the country is going to benefit. 
   Trading service for education is an American tradition. I guess it goes back even further than the GI bill, but that is what brought it to mind. All of us had parents who were probably recipients of the GI bill. I know my father was. 
   We should be beefing up education benefits through the GI bill and other things like that for our Reserves and our National Guard and Active Duty people, now that we are at war and now that we are thinking about this. But this particular scholarship program we are talking about today will fill a need for our country of finding math and science teachers in order to fill these positions throughout our country that now can't be filled. 
   Let us note that 10,000 teachers provided these scholarships is certainly going to help. But the basic problem is not touched by this legislation, and that is that we would not need these scholarships if math and science teachers throughout the country were paid more than they are today. 
   What is happening is today, math and science teachers are being forced to accept wages, and then they don't accept them and just go someplace else, at the same level as teachers who teach things that are not quite as necessary. Or, in fact, there are many, many more teachers available for these other courses, whether it be social sciences or whatever. So since we do not have a pay differential, it is very difficult to fill these positions, and at least this legislation today will help meet the immediate challenge. 
   Instead, however, we should have worked on the fundamental problem throughout our country of making sure that people can go into math and science and be attracted to it. Fundamentally, what we need to do in America to address these types of shortages is to make sure that people who go into math and science and engineering make more money, whether they are teachers or anything else. Quite often, we do things that go contrary to this. Insisting that all teachers make the same money is one of those mistakes. H-1B visas that bring in hundreds of thousands of people from overseas and just depress the wages of people who are in math and science and engineering in our country is something else that is wrong, that ends up taking us in the wrong direction. 
   We need our young people attracted to math, science and engineering, and to get that education because they know they can earn a good living for their family and earn a decent living if they get that type of training.  
   So the legislation we pass today will help. It will provide scholarships. I support that. I salute the chairman and the ranking member for the leadership they provided in providing this help for our young people in exchange for what they will do teaching young people in our country. But again, that doesn't change the fact that there are some fundamental things we need to do in America to make sure that people go into math and science and don't have to subsidize our mistaken policies. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (IMPLEMENTING THE 9/11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, there are positive, even necessary, elements of this legislation; but nevertheless it is flawed. A major flaw reflects  what I believe, I think I state, a wrongheaded approach which is favored perhaps by the new majority of this current Congress. 
   Mr. Speaker, today I rise in strong support of a motion that will be offered later, the motion to recommit H.R. 1. That motion is aimed at removing this damaging flaw that is currently part of the bill. The Proliferation Security Initiative, or the PSI, is a vital program created by the United States in which we team with 14 other partner countries to catch terrorists who attempt to transfer weapons of mass destruction. We created this program so that the United States and our allies could operate independently and quickly without bureaucratic interference to stop the world's most dangerous terrorists. The PSI has been effective due to its independence as well as the member countries' commitments to stop these weapons transfers. 
   This, as I say, has been an effective effort. It was created by Americans. It was led by Americans. And the decisions made were essentially under the leadership of Americans. The new majority in this House seems to favor a more multilateral approach which would be led by international organizations, in this case the United Nations. 
   If H.R. 1 passes in its current form, so will a sense of Congress that says our Proliferation Security Initiative should be authorized by the United Nations. Our new majority in Congress appears more interested in catering to unelected bureaucrats at the United Nations than in stopping proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. This is not only a dangerous mistake; it runs totally counter to the principles we have followed thus far in our country where Americans should be the main determinants of those elements and those decisions that so much affect our security. 
   Now, I understand that the new majority prefers a more global approach which, of course, would leave us dependent on international bodies like the United Nations. But that is not an approach that I believe will make this country safer as reflected in this legislation. A sense of Congress that says we want to cede our power to the United Nations on any issue such as this but especially on matters of U.S. national security is a mistake. 
   I encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to correct this harmful error in H.R. 1 and vote in favor of the motion to recommit. And as we face these decisions in the future, as we make these very important decisions and as we develop legislation like this, let's remember our obligation is to the people of the United States. Our obligation is not to curry favor with unelected bureaucrats at the United Nations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Speaker, a tsunami of illegal aliens is sweeping into our country, crowding our classrooms, closing our hospital emergency rooms, unleashing violent crime, and driving down wages. 
   This is not theory. It is a harsh, threatening reality borne out not by numerous academic studies, but by the life experiences of the American families from California to Georgia and from Iowa to New Jersey. 
   Our middle class is being destroyed. Our communities are not safe. Our social service infrastructure is collapsing. And, yes, it has everything to do with illegal immigration, illegal immigration which is out of control. And year after year, while our schools deteriorate and our jails fill and our hospital emergency rooms shut down, the elite in this country turns a blind eye to the disaster that is befalling the rest of us, their fellow Americans. The elites obscure the issue and maneuver to keep in place policies that reward illegal immigrants with jobs and benefits, and now, of course, being rewarded with citizenship. 
   This country, the upper class says, can't function without cheap labor.     
   Well, cheap to the captains of industry and the political elite, but painfully expensive to America's middle class. It's our kids whose education is being diminished, our families who are paying thousands more in health insurance to make up for the hospital costs of giving free service to illegals. It's our neighborhoods who suffer from crime perpetuated by criminals transported here from other countries. And, yes, our livelihoods are being dragged down as wages are depressed and anchored down by a constant influx of immigrants, mostly illegal, some with H1B visas, willing to work at a pittance. 
   Big business, with its hold on the GOP, in an unholy alliance with the liberal left coalition that controls the Democratic Party, have been responsible for this invasion of our country, this attack on the well-being of our people. This coalition gives the jobs and passes out the benefits that lured tens of millions of illegals to our country. It's no accident. This predicament was predictable. It's been over 20 years of bad policy in the making. If you give jobs and benefits, the masses of people over there will do anything to get over here. And that's what we've been doing. Give it and they will come. Surprise, surprise. 
   Now the out-of-touch elite has introduced yet another piece of legislation, this so-called comprehensive reform bill that they claim will fix our illegal immigration crisis once and for all. Of course, this is a crisis they created. They are trumpeting the supposedly new enforcement measures and security measures that will be initiated in this bill, the border fence, new agents, new employer sanctions, if only we will swallow hard and give amnesty to those law-breakers who are already here. 
   Like Lucy holding out the football for Charlie Brown to kick, the bill is yet another effort to trick us. It's an illusion, a scam that will make things worse, not better. 
   The Senate legislation now being touted by Senator Kennedy and a few Republican Senators immediately legalizes the status of 15 to 20 million illegals, while offering more border control, yes, fences and Border Patrol agents and such, as sweeteners aimed at getting us to accept this deal. 
   But we've already passed legislation addressing border security. It's already into law. It's already against the law, for example, to hire illegals. We've already mandated a stronger fence and more Border Patrol agents. So, in reality, this legislation isn't about those other things which they're trying to get us to support the legislation about; this is only about legalizing the status of 15 to 20 million illegals and then finding new ways to get more immigrants into our country. It has nothing to do with controlling the flow of illegals and controlling the flow of immigrants into our country, as much as it is expanding the number of immigrants, legal and illegal, coming into our country. 
   In such situations as we find ourselves in today with this legislation, it's fashionable on Capitol Hill to say ``the devil is in the details''. And this  bill has enough demons to open up a whole new level of hell. 
   Let's start, first and foremost, with the most obvious lie, the claim that this bill does not give amnesty to illegal aliens. President Bush has done great damage to his credibility by playing such word games. My friends, the first thing this bill does is legalize 15 to 20 million people who now illegally reside in our country. I don't care what the President calls it, it immediately legalizes the status of millions who are here illegally. 
   Under the proposed legislation, this amnesty, and that's exactly what it is, is now called a probationary Z visa. Upon passage of this bill, every illegal alien who can claim they were here in the United States by January 1 of 2007 can apply for a probationary Z visa that grants them immediate legal status to be in the United States. 
   Listen carefully. Immediately upon this bill's passage, there is no waiting for triggers or clarification or bureaucratic benchmarks, their status is immediately legalized. It is very straightforward. These probationary visas are available immediately upon the passage of this bill, 15 or 20 million illegals immediately legalized in their status here. 
   What message does this send to the 100 million or so people who are waiting overseas? The 15 to 20 million newly legalized immigrants will be quickly followed by 50 to 100 million more illegals flooding our system beyond the point of return. If we let that happen, this will be a catastrophic event of historic proportions. More importantly, for the American people, it will be a calamity for their communities and for their families. 
   According to this so-called immigration reform bill, how does an illegal become legal? Well, first of all, he temporarily, right off the bat, becomes legal once this bill passes. Very simple, if he wants to make himself legal, then beyond that, he or she walks in and applies. Or he or she just, they don't have to pay back taxes; they don't have to do anything else. 
   If this bill passes, he or she doesn't have to go through health checks. They don't have to have any other process. They will be granted, immediately after the passage of this bill, legal status to be here, legal status that is supposedly temporary. Supposedly. The illegal pays a fine of $1,000 for this probationary visa, not the $5,000 that we've all heard about. It's $1,000. And for $1,000, one can obtain the legal right to work in this country, to participate in our Social Security system, to be protected by our laws, and given benefits from our government, a plenty good bargain for them. 
   But for the taxpayers it's worse than a raw deal. Yes, out of the shadows will come 15 to 20 million people who will now be demanding equal rights to live here freely, to get jobs, to consume resources that they are not now entitled to consume because they are now here illegally. 
   There is another detail that makes this process dangerous and unworkable. The government, according to this legislation, has only 1 business day to act once an application has been submitted, and that is just 1 day to look over that application and to approve it. After 1 business day, that's 24 hours, the government must issue the amnesty to that applicant. 
   Is there anyone who doesn't understand that this means huge numbers of criminals and, yes, terrorists, who will obtain the legal right to live and work here in the United States under this rule because of this legislation? One day to oversee this applicant? 
   One needs to ask, who is writing such obvious insanity into Federal legislation? Obviously, whoever is insisting on a 1-day review, that must be followed by an approval if one doesn't object; 1-day review, obviously, the person who's advocating this doesn't care about us at all. He's looking to make sure that we treat those people who are in this country illegally better. This person obviously doesn't care, who's written this into our Federal law, or is trying to, doesn't care if Americans are victimized by criminals who should never have been permitted to come here, but will come here because we're only requiring 1 day to determine if they can be approved or not. 
   Now, you think that criminals throughout the world and even terrorists don't see this as a vulnerability? 
   Who's trying to foist this off on us? Who's trying to write this into Federal law? They're not watching out for the interests of the American people. 
   This Z visa gives illegal aliens exactly what they want, the legal right to work in the United States, and the Z visa is renewable every 4 years, without limits. The way this bill is written, you can live in the United States until you die by renewing your Z visa every 4 years. 
   Fellow Americans, who love this country, word games aside, this is amnesty of the worst possible sort. Millions of illegals who broke the law will be granted legal status and can stay in this country as long as they please. In fact, I predict millions of people who are currently holding valid student and tourist visas will immediately apply for the Z visa. And why not? Student and tourist visas expire. The Z visa won't expire; every 4 years you can just renew it. 
   Only if the alien wishes to become a citizen do the increased fines, that $5,000 we've heard about, only if they want to become a citizen do these fines and other requirements come into play. 
   No serious person in the immigration reform movement has ever said that it is citizenship that defines amnesty. Amnesty is not being held to account for breaking the law. This Z visa goes beyond not punishing law breakers. It actually rewards law breakers. 
   Wake up, America. Someone is giving away our country. Someone is betraying the interests of the American people. The perpetrators of this crime want low wages for the benefit of business and they want political pawns for the benefit of the liberal left. 
   This legislation will make a bad situation that we all know exists in this country, it'll make it dramatically worse. Is this what the American people are calling for when they want comprehensive immigration reform? They want something that will make it worse than we have it today? 
   I don't understand how we can stand and let this happen to our country. It is up to us to make sure that it doesn't. 
   This legislation is a declaration of war on the American middle class. And not only will this legislation increase illegal immigration, a clause in the bill will create a rush to the border. Section 601H5 states that anyone arrested trying to cross into our country, who then claims to have formerly lived in the United States will be allowed to apply for a Z visa; which means they can be approved in 1 day. 
   This is a mind-boggling incentive for fraud. Who wouldn't want to come across the border on the chance that they could bluff their way into getting amnesty and becoming eligible for all our government programs and eligible for the jobs that should be going to Americans? 
   Expect to hear ballyhoo about the tough enforcement mechanisms and the ``triggers'' built into this bill. But don't believe it; it's just so much more fraud, more flim-flam. The triggers and other schemes in this bill are a farce. 
   There is no reason these safeguards against illegal immigration have not already been implemented. They are now simply being used as a ruse to disguise the one goal of the elite, and that is to legalize the status of those millions who are already here illegally and leading tens of millions more to come here. 
   The bill calls for 18,000 Border Patrol agents. That's one of the claims of why we have to support the bill. We're going to get 18,000 Border Patrol agents. But we already have 15,000 Border Patrol agents. And in the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, it's required that there be 2,000 new Border Patrol agents each year through 2010. So this is simply smoke and mirrors. 
   What this new legislation does is simply reiterate hiring mandates that are already in the system, already mandated by law. This bill simply takes credit for the hard work that's already been done. Of course, they're doing that because, again, it's a cover for their attempt to legalize the status of 15 to 20 million illegals and, yes, to unleash a flood of millions more to come into our country. 
   On another level, how does anyone expect to actually meet the goal of increasing the ranks of the Border Patrol when this administration throws Border Patrol agents into prison and gives immunity to alien drug smugglers? This administration has lost the confidence of the Border Patrol.  
   And I submit at this time a statement by the Border Patrol Agents Council opposing this legislation. I would like to put this into the Record at this point, Mr. Speaker.  
   Senate Immigration Reform Compromise is a Raw Deal for America 
   More than a century ago, the philosopher George Santayana sagely observed that ``those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.'' The United States Senate would do well to heed that advice as it once again debates immigration reform. 
   In 1986, Congress passed the Immigration Reform and Control Act. At that time, it was estimated that between three and four million illegal aliens were living in the United States. The bill promised to crack down on the businesses that hired illegal aliens and step up border enforcement efforts. Since those measures would finally solve the problem of illegal immigration, Congress reasoned, there would be no harm in establishing a pathway to citizenship for those who had been working in this country for a minimum period of time. It was assumed that about one-half million people would qualify for that benefit under those terms. In the final analysis, however, nearly three million illegal aliens became citizens, many of them through fraud. A large number of criminals and even a handful of terrorists were among the beneficiaries of that program. 
   Twenty-one years later, it is estimated that at least 12 million, and perhaps as many as 20 million, illegal aliens reside in the United States. Quite obviously, the promise of enforcement never materialized. Now, some elected officials are desperately trying to convince the American public that they are finally serious about keeping that promise, and to prove it, claim that they will add about 5,000 Border Patrol agents and 370 miles of border fencing, as well as an electronic employment verification system. While this represents a slight improvement over the current untenable situation, it will by no means stop, or even substantially slow, the current rate of illegal immigration. 
   As long as impoverished people can find work in this country at wages that far exceed those available to them in their native countries, millions of illegal aliens will continue to cross our borders every year. The only way to stop this influx is to eliminate the employment magnet by means of a fool-proof employment verification system. While the plan unveiled by the Senate takes a few small steps in that direction, it would do very little to actually hold employers accountable. In order to achieve that goal, every prospective worker must be required to present a single type of secure biometric employment-verification document whenever applying for a job, and every prospective employer must be required to electronically verify its authenticity. The logical choice for this document is the Social Security card, which every legal worker is already required to possess. 
   Those who claim that it would be impossible to arrest and deport millions of people ignore economic reality. If illegal aliens can no longer find work in this country because employers are afraid of the consequences for hiring them, they will go home of their own accord. 
   Unless Congress gets serious about worksite enforcement, it will be impossible to secure our borders. The Border Patrol is totally overwhelmed by the high volume of illegal traffic that streams across our borders every day. Front-line agents estimate that for every person they apprehend, two or three slip by them. At the same time, Border Patrol agents need to be provided with the necessary tools and support in order to be able to intercept the criminals and terrorists who will continue to attempt to breach our borders. 
   T.J. Bonner, the president of the National Border Patrol Council, issued the following statement today: 
   ``Every person who has ever risked their life securing our borders is extremely disheartened to see some of our elected representatives once again waving the white flag on the issues of illegal immigration and border security. Rewarding criminal behavior has never induced anyone to abide by the law, and there is no reason to believe that the outcome will be any different in this case.'' 
   ``The passage of time has proven the 1986 amnesty to be a mistake of colossal proportions. Instead of `wiping the slate clean,' it spurred a dramatic increase in illegal immigration. With the ever-present threat of terrorism, it is critical to take the steps necessary to immediately and completely secure our borders. Piecemeal measures will prolong our vulnerability, and are an open invitation to further terrorist attacks.'' 
   ``Rather than the meaningless `triggers' of additional personnel and barriers outlined in the compromise, Americans must insist that border security be measured in absolute terms. As long as any people or contraband can enter our country illegally, our borders are not secure. Sadly, the plan that the Senate is proposing falls woefully short by that yardstick, and needlessly jeopardizes the security of this Nation.''     
   As we deliberate on this bill, it behooves us to remember that Border Patrol Agents Ramos and Compean are at this very moment languishing in solitary confinement in a Federal prison. These heroic border guards, one a 10-year veteran who was up to be Border Patrol Agent of the Year, another 5-year veteran, these people who were putting their lives on the line for us on a daily basis for years, interdicted a drug smuggler one day. This drug smuggler was transporting over $1 million worth of narcotics into our country. Yet when all was said and done, and the drug smuggler had escaped, but his drugs were interdicted and seized, this administration turned what may have been just administrative paperwork and literally things not reported right on paper, mistakes that may or may not have been made by the agents, and I think that after looking at this, there weren't mistakes, but if there were, it was procedural mistakes, policy issues there that were being dealt with on paper, they turned that into criminal activity, charging our Border Patrol agents with felonies, putting them away for 10 to 11 years, while siding with the drug smuggler, giving the drug smuggler immunity to testify against the Border Patrol agents as they turned what would be minor mistakes into felonies rather than trying to say, well, you made some mistakes in this, but we will give you immunity, however, so we can get the drug smuggler who is trying to smuggle drugs in to our children and into our communities. 
   And then there are the cases of Gilmer Hernandez and Gary Brugman, two more law enforcement officers, jailed for stopping human traffickers. Again, the book was thrown at them, the maximum penalties sought, but no prosecution of illegal criminal aliens. 
   This indefensible inclination of the administration, of President Bush's leadership of the administration, has demoralized our protectors at the border. According to the National Border Patrol Council, the union representing 12,000 frontline Border Patrol agents, we are losing 12 percent of our Border Patrol agents a year right now. That amounts to 1,500 officers quitting their job every year. And we cannot replace the ones that we are losing. Why? Because this administration is not backing them up; because they feel that they are being abused by the people, by the government that they are serving. This is the administration that claims to be doing things in this legislation to help increase border security. 
   This administration, this President, has a miserable record of providing border security. Our defenders have been undercut and abused by a personal protege of the President of the United States. 
   This isn't as if President Bush doesn't know this. Attorney General Johnny Sutton, a young man who has tagged his career to the President for the last 20 years, he personally decided to prosecute these people, these law enforcement people, to the fullest extent of the law. And he has demonstrated that he will show no mercy for these Border Patrol agents and law enforcement officers like Ramos and Compean. The White House and Johnny Sutton will not permit these Border Patrol agents to even go out on bond until their appeal is heard. And it was Johnny Sutton, the U.S. attorney, and prosecutors that decided to prosecute them and let the drug smugglers go, decided to throw the book at them, decided to give gun charges against these people even though it is their job to carry a gun in order to protect us. 
   Well, are we expected to believe that the legislation now pursued by the President, who is behind such nonsensical policies at the border, will help make our borders more secure, help stem the out-of-control flow of illegals into our country? How can we believe that that is what the purpose of this legislation is when at this time the administration is taking steps and has taken steps for the last 6 years to ensure that we would have a massive flow of illegals into our country? These people didn't just materialize into our country. They have come especially from across the southern border, but across our other borders as well, and there has been no attempt by this administration to get control of the people who are entering via airports from other parts of the world, people who then just overstay their visa. 
   Well, this administration has not done this and has attacked our Border  Patrol agents instead. So much for the idea that this legislation, backed by Senator Kennedy and the President, will somehow strengthen the Border Patrol. 
   The next trigger that we are told about is similarly fraudulent. The bill requires U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to have the resources to detain up to 27,000 illegal aliens. How about that? But the Intelligence Reform and Terrorist Prevention Act of 2004 already requires almost double that number, 43,000 beds. Again, the bill is simply taking credit for legislation and for mandates that have already been passed into law. They are doing this to confuse the American people because they are using this as a cover to legalize the status of 15- to 20-million people who are here illegally, which will attract tens of millions more. 
   And what this bill doesn't do and what it doesn't require may be just as significant as what it does. It does not require worksite enforcement. In an amazing loophole. It only requires the Department of Homeland Security to have the tools to conduct worksite enforcement, but nowhere in the bill does it mandate the Department of Homeland Security to actually conduct worksite enforcement. Since millions of illegal aliens come here looking for work, worksite enforcement is imperative if we are to discourage illegal immigration. 
   If the Department of Homeland Security has the tools, but this so-called comprehensive package does not require them to use the tools, then we are right back in the situation that we are now. The law isn't being enforced. If it was, then the situation would not have gotten out of hand, as it is today. 
   One of the triggers in this legislation actually reduces border security. It cuts in half the border fence that Congress required to build on our southern borders. Now, remember we already passed the legislation requiring a fence. Everybody remembers that. Now those 
   who ignored that mandate, the President and others who ignored that mandate, are telling us we must legalize the status of millions of illegals who are in this country in order for us to get what is already required by law. Now, what makes us think they are now going to obey the law, the agreement that they made? 
   What this bill doesn't do, as I said, speaks as loud as it what it does. It does not require the U.S. to have a verifiable exit system so we know that when visiting foreigners come into the U.S., then we have no idea if they have left. Someone who is coming into the United States on a visa can overstay their visa, and we don't know if they have left. How can we seek out and deport someone who has violated their visa if we don't even know if that person is in the country or not? There has been no effort on the part of this administration to try to fix that problem, and this bill does not mandate that. 
   Furthermore, it does not mandate checks on legal status in order for people who are here to get benefits. So those who oversee the limited resources that we have for our own people aren't expected to verify the legal status of those seeking to obtain services or benefits that are paid by the taxpayers. Our own people are going to suffer because of this. This is the comprehensive bill that is supposed to help our people; yet it leaves us vulnerable. Illegals are waved right through the system. 
   Let me give you an example. What I have learned is that there are hundreds of thousands of illegals throughout this country who are in Federal housing. Why? Because one member of their family, perhaps a child that was born here once they came to this country illegally, one child becomes a U.S. citizen, and if they have one child as a U.S. citizen, the whole family then gets to have housing benefits from the Federal Government. 
   Now, tell me this: The American people who are paying the bills, shouldn't they be getting this benefit rather than a family from overseas who has one child in this country who then supposedly becomes a citizen? What about our people who are barely making it, who can barely afford to pay their rent? They don't get the housing subsidy. What about our seniors who lose their income or they can't make it on what their retirement income is? They don't get the help. But illegals are being herded right through the system and given this help because they have a child that was born here. 
   We shouldn't even permit an illegal who has a child here to think that that child is going to be a legal citizen. That itself should be taken care of in this legislation, and that isn't being taken care of. And by letting anyone who is born here become a U.S. citizen, we have again opened up all these benefits to illegals, millions of them, and we have also invited millions to come here to make sure their children become citizens by being born here. 
   And, by the way, the triggers that we have heard about will unleash forces that they claim will make things better, but what about these triggers? How are these triggers going to be met? Well, the Secretary of Homeland Security, all he has to do to say that the triggers have been met is simply submit a written piece of paper that claims the triggers have been met. There is no actual reduction in illegal immigration required before there is a trigger which brings in all of these new immigrants and opens up the rest of the legislation. There is no decrease in, for example, those people who are involved in trying to get jobs through the match file system of Social Security. No, that would be measurable. Perhaps if we had a reduction in the number of illegal aliens in our prisons that could be noted, maybe that would be a good trigger, or anything else that can be objectively measured. No. That might mean that we are actually making progress, and that is the real reason why you have triggers. No, the triggers are there to provide cover. 
   The Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, all he has to do is simply sign a letter saying that the trigger elements are funded, in place, and in operation. So these supposed triggers, these supposed safeguards, they just have to be in place. They don't have to have any results, and at that point, that is when the rest of the safeguards don't make any difference at that point. That is when the meat of the bill goes into effect. The immigration spigot will be turned on by a simple piece of paper saying that something is in place, not necessarily working. 
   And as we have seen, several of these triggers that I have already mentioned have already been put in place by prior legislation. The wall, building the wall, and expanding the Border Patrol agents, they have already been mandated. So one can expect the trigger letters that we are talking about that they are saying we are going to hold off until this situation is under control, they will be issued almost immediately, and that is predictable. 
   And what happens when a letter certifying that we have gotten tough with border security is issued? Well, once that letter is issued, this legislation provides that a massive, and I mean a massive, guest worker program is then launched. You get that? Expanding the Border Patrol agents and the fence and these things, when they just say they are in place, all of a sudden the new guest worker program is brought out and launched into service. 
   The deep pool of illegals currently here is going to be boosted by a flood of new illegals who know that if they get here, they will likely be given amnesty just like we did in 1986 and just like people are trying to do right now.     
   The lies of the past are almost as blatant as the fraud we are now confronting. The unspoken truth is Senator Kennedy wants extremely high levels of immigration. The truth is, President Bush wants extremely high levels of immigration. It hurts the well-being of the American people, but if it does, so be it. That's what Senator Kennedy and President Bush want. 
   It isn't enough that we have a 15 percent unemployment rate among high school dropouts in this country, and millions of lower-income Americans who are seeing their wages buy less and less. It isn't enough that immigration has reduced the wages of low-skilled Americans by about $2,000 a year. Apparently, we need to push them into abject poverty by importing 400,000 guest workers a year to compete directly with Americans. Yes, 400,000, and again, now, details matter. 
   While Y visas, which are designated for those who are in this new temporary guest workers program, while  they are supposed to be only temporary and only good for 2 years, a Y visa holder can eventually apply and get U.S. citizenship. They can also bring their spouse and children. They can stay for 2 years to work. Then they return home, and then they reapply for another 2-year visa. They can renew the Y visa this way up to three times. 
   Now, who in their right mind actually believes that these people, once they've uprooted their families and they brought all this and met these other requirements, that once they are here, that they are just going to go back? When we have millions of people swarming into this country because we've already given amnesty to everybody else, why won't these people in the guest worker program just melt right into the crowds, just go right there? 
   And, of course, they might go in and ask for green cards, which they can do, or they will just melt into the system, melt into our country. Why not? 
   Well, does this sound like it is a temporary guest worker's program, that 400,000 people are going to be here temporarily? Well, who gets hurt by this nonsense? 
   This bill allows employers to lay off American workers and replace them with Y visa holders as long as the Americans were fired 90 days before the petition of the foreign worker is filed. This is a huge subsidy to corporate America. It is both corporate welfare and an attack on the paycheck of hardworking Americans who are struggling to keep afloat. 
   We are told we must have these guest workers because Americans won't take the jobs, like in agriculture. Well, there are Americans who will pick fruit and vegetables. Don't tell me there aren't Americans who will go out and do this kind of labor in the fields. In fact, I've visited compounds where you have thousands of Americans, men, healthy men, between 18 and 40 years old, who would love to get out and earn some money. These are men in prison. These are prisoners who, after serving their time, 5 to 10 years, they get out with no work ethic, no money, $50 in their pocket and a new suit; and people are surprised when they come back to prison after committing more crime. 
   Well, let's put these people to work, rather than wasting all of their time, not developing any work ethic, let's let them earn $10,000, $20,000, so when they get out, they will have some money in their hand and they will have a work ethic. And half of the money can be used to pay for their own incarceration. 
   When somebody like me says this in Washington, D.C., they make fun of that. They make fun of me for suggesting that prisoners should pick the fruits and vegetables. The people making fun of me, are they watching out for the American people? These prisoners, they will be given a chance if we let them earn a living, come out of prison with $10,000 or $20,000 that they've earned, and they've paid some restitution in the meantime. So there are people who will do these jobs, even the agricultural jobs. 
   We are told we must have guest workers because Americans won't take the jobs, like agriculture and other jobs, because the guest worker program isn't just agricultural work. Look real close, Mr. and Mrs. America. This guest worker program includes a lot of other jobs rather than just agricultural work, cleaning hotel rooms and construction workers, for example. 
   Now, is it really true that Americans won't do that, or Americans won't be nannies for other people's children? No. Americans will do those jobs as long as they get pay commensurate for their work. No, they won't work like slave labor, like illegals who are pouring over the borders into our country to fill these jobs. 
   There are millions of American women who would love to drop off their children at school at 9 o'clock in the morning and go to work at these various hotels, cleaning the rooms and changing the sheets and then get off by 3 o'clock in order to pick up their kids at school. Yes, millions of American women would like to do that, but they're not going to work for a pittance, they're not going to work as slaves. They want benefits if they're going to work for the job. But with illegals pouring across the border, these millions of American women are left out. 
   There are millions of American women who would love to be a nanny for some rich people who would like to have a nanny for their children, or even some people who aren't so rich who would like to have some help with their children, but they're not going to work for a pittance. And all these rich people who have nannies from overseas and are paying them half as much as they would have to pay an American woman to help them, who is being helped? The rich lady or the rich woman who has the children are being helped. 
   Yes, those rich people are being helped. Maybe the immigrant, the illegal immigrant, probably woman, who is helping out as a nanny, she has helped a little bit. Who is the big loser are the American women, who could be earning a decent living to help their families by serving as nannies, because they are women who are mothers and they know about taking care of children. We have frozen them out of the market. 
   We are hurting the American family. We are making sure that families don't have the extra money, and that these hotel chains can pay people a pittance. 
   The guest worker program starts at 400,000, but it can be increased. This bill allows for adjustments every 6 months based on market fluctuation. Is there a doubt in anyone's mind that simply allowing the number of guest workers to go up and down will not result in the number of workers going up and up and up? H1B visas and Y visa holders will be taking the jobs that Americans are willing to do, but they will be driving down wages. 
   In Orange County, I went to a function a few years ago and a fellow grabbed me by the arm and he said, Congressman, I am here to thank you. He had a newspaper clipping when we were debating H1B visas here on the floor of the House. He said Congressman, I read your quote. You said if we bring in these hundreds of thousands of people on H1B visas from India and Pakistan to work at our high-tech jobs, we are going to do nothing but depress the wages of the people in the electronics industry. 
   He said, I was laid off, and do you know what happened? I went back to get my old job back. They paid me $80,000, and now they were offering the same job to me for $50,000. And they looked at me and said, if you 
   don't take this, we can get somebody with an H1B visa to take it, some Indian or Pakistani, so you'd better take it. 
   And he said, I did. He said, you know the difference, Congressman, between earning $50,000 and $80,000 is? I said, what is it? He said, you never dream of owning your own home if you make $50,000 a year. 
   We are destroying the dreams of the American people in order to what? To bring down wages so that our business elite can prosper, and yes, so that we can bring millions of illegals into this country, millions of immigrants into this country, which the liberal left of the political spectrum thinks that they are going to use these people as pawns in their own political game. They are being exploited by the business community and exploited by the liberal left who control the Democratic party. This is obscene. 
   Who loses? Yeah, the immigrants are kind of losers, even though they're a little bit better off. The American people are the losers. 
   What happens to particular Americans isn't the worst of it. Not only do we greatly expand our guest worker program, we are actually increasing chain migration, even though they are telling us this bill will take care of that. Chain migration allows an immigrant to bring his spouse and children and the sisters and brothers and in-laws, grandparents, aunts and uncles. 
   One of the reasons the wait to migrate to America is so long for many people overseas is that the open slots that could become open to immigrate here legally are going to people who are bringing their relatives over, people who may immediately be on the dole, people who can't even support themselves, but they are family members. 
   The Senate claims this bill will move away from that, that it will point the system to a merit system, to those who have skills that America needs and will be able to come into the country before the relatives of those people are already here. Sounds pretty good in theory, doesn't it? Once again, there are  so many loopholes in this bill that the reality of this legislation is just the opposite for which it portends. 
   The bill, as written, for most of the next decade will dramatically increase chain migration. Well, how is that? How? Right now, chain migration is limited to 112,000 per year. This bill increases that. Get this: Chain migration is 112,000 a year; this bill would increase that number to 440,000 per year until the current backlog of applications is filled. 
   That backlog will take 8 years, get that, 8 years to fix, 8 years before the point system we are being told about will come into play, 8 years at a fourfold increase in chain migration during those 8 years. 
   Does anyone here really think that 8 years from now we will implement a merit system for chain migration? By then we will have 50 to 100 million new illegal immigrants here who have swarmed into our country, and we will be in the midst of chaos and confusion. 
   One might reasonably hope, after granting amnesty, establishing a new guest worker program, increasing chain migration and requiring trigger mechanisms that already are in place and aren't needed, that this bill might at least crack down on illegal immigrant criminals. Well, don't hold your breath. This bill imposes significant obstacles to removing dangerous alien gang members from our country. 
   This bill also narrowly defines criminal gangs so that many small gangs will be excluded from the bill. Further, the government must prove bad intent on the part of the alien gang member in order to remove the alien gang member. All a gang member has to do is sign a piece of paper saying he has renounced his gang affiliation and he can then get a Z visa. He is then getting a visa that will permit him legal status here, even though he's illegal and part of a criminal gang. Of course a gang member would never lie to us about that, would he? I guess not. Why are we putting out this welcome mat for criminals? This is madness. 
   Further, the bill weakens the law involving passport fraud and misuse. It actually reduces the punishment for illegal reentry by criminals into this country. The so-called comprehensive bill weakens restrictions that are already in place. 
   And shockingly enough, this bill does not make engaging in a terrorist activity proof that an immigrant is not of good moral character, the good moral character, of course, being a requirement to get a visa. 
   And the final insult, let's look at the highly touted electronic employment eligibility verification, the system allowing employers to make sure that the employees they hire are eligible for employment. It's a fraud. Why? First, because the bill permits the entire system to be changed by the Department of Homeland Security Secretary and the Social Security Administrator. 
   Second, while an illegal alien is appealing a finding of noneligibility for employment, so if he is found not to be eligible for employment, while he is appealing that, he can appeal it administratively, and then he can appeal it in the courts. The illegal can't be fired while he is appealing that decision. That could go on for years, and so the mechanism is irrelevant. 
   In real-life scenarios, this bill would make that mechanism to check irrelevant. Forget whatever requirements are in the bill. There are over 40 pages of such requirements, such as, in section 302 of the bill, the Department of Homeland Security Secretary and the Social Security Administrator are given authority to change any requirement. Any of the supposed tough mandates can be administratively done and deleted simply by publishing these changes in the Federal Register. 
   What is the purpose of defining a system for page after page in this legislation and then saying, by the way, if you don't like it or get too much heat from greedy employers or a confused press, don't worry, you can change it? It can be changed easily without having to go back to the Congress.     
   This is not laying the foundation for meeting serious challenges. This is creating a phony facade to make people think that something else is happening. 
   The final slap? This bill legalizes in-state tuition for illegal aliens. If your child goes 100 miles to the next State, he or she must pay for out-of-state tuition. But an illegal alien who is smuggled 2,000 miles by their parents into this country can go to school cheaply and on your tax dollar. 
   This much vaunted compromise that we are talking about, this comprehensive bill, is in reality an amnesty for everyone; a new guest worker program so your employer can throw you out of work. It vastly expands chain migration. It guts enforcement provisions and makes it easier for illegal alien criminals to stay. If this is a compromise, I shudder to think what the other bill will look like. It would be more honest for the Senate to draft up a bill declaring war on the American people. 
   Robert Rector from the Heritage Foundation estimates the cost for the out-of-control flow of illegal immigration will be over $2.5 trillion. That is trillion dollars with a ``T.'' Baby-boomers retiring and the looming crisis in Medicare and Social Security are upon us. What rational person thinks that we can take on another $2.5 trillion in obligations and not see the utter bankruptcy of our country? And what rational person thinks we can absorb tens of millions of new illegals who will be attracted to America once we legalize the status of this bunch who are here now? 
   This goes deeper than economics. Why are we officially endorsing the existence of a permanent class of illegal residents, because when those 50 to 100 million people get here, it will be over. A group of people who are not citizens, who have neither obligation nor benefits of being citizens, will be in our country forever. It will change the nature of the United States. It is changing the nature of the United States. 
   I strongly support legal immigration. Legal immigrants are the bulwark of our economy and our society. They are the most patriotic of Americans. But they have come here to be Americans. They have come here, legal immigrants have come here, to make sure they are healthy, yes, and they can work and they can actually take care of themselves, rather than be wards of the state. They have met these obligations. They want to speak English. 
   But they have come here with the premise, everyone comes here who comes to our country, they know, these legal immigrants, that they have to give up their allegiance to their old country and to truly become Americans, and they want to become Americans. I am proud of those legal immigrants who support me in my district. They deserve the rights and their families deserve the rights of every American, and no one should ever interpret this battle against illegal immigration with any attack on those wonderful American citizens who are here by choice and who have come here legally and come here through the process. 
   We have a huge group of illegal immigrants here now, and a growing number, who refuse to renounce their allegiance to their old country and to their old ways, but loudly insist on being granted the economic benefits of living in this country. This is a prescription for disaster. For disaster. 
   Legal immigration is a controlled process. We take in more than all the rest of the world combined. We have more legal immigrants into our country than all the other countries of the world combined, and we can be proud of that. 
   But it hasn't been enough for those who rake in higher profits when wages go down or for those in the liberal left who want to fundamentally change America and believe a mass of new immigrants will help them do it. 
   America is a wondrous dream. We are letting an elite clique of capitalists and leftists, as unholy an alliance as that is, to turn this dream into a nightmare. The American people need to step forward with a righteous rage. They are being betrayed. President Bush and Senator Kennedy have an agenda that will destroy America's middle-class. Those who sign onto this legislation are not, not, representing the interests of the American people. 
   If we do not speak up, the Americans, the patriots, both legal immigrants and people who are born here, if we do not step up there will be another 50 to 100 million people here from abroad and they will live here a decade from now and it will be a different country. We will have lost our country. 
   Yet those supporting this invasion of America posture themselves as morally  superior. Cities declare ``sanctuary'' for illegals, these illegals who have broken our laws. These cities who are declaring sanctuary are never asked who is being hurt. They think they are helping people. 
   It is not just the American people being hurt, it is those people waiting in line overseas. Why should the person who has come here illegally, the people who have come here illegally, get the benefits? Why should the people who run the sanctuaries be on the side of those people who cheated and cut in line in front of all of those hundreds of millions of people waiting overseas? 
   The sanctuary cities are treating the good people who would immigrate here legally and are waiting to do so as a bunch of saps. Any time that we reward illegal conduct and these people who have come here illegally and we say we are reaching out to them, we are going to try to help them, what you are really doing is hurting the people overseas. You are hurting someone else who is a decent, hard-working person who would come here. So anybody who offers sanctuary and is reaching out to illegals is doing nothing but hurting other people overseas. Of course, they are hurting the American people. It is not enough to tell them that. They are also hurting these poor people overseas. These sanctuary cities are contributing to the breakdown of our society. 
   This ``holier-than-thou'' attitude is not humanitarian. It is phony. Those posers are rarely willing to sacrifice their own resources. They want to spend taxpayer dollars to take care of their humanitarian instincts. The Catholic Church, for example, demands that illegals be given healthcare and education benefits. Let the Catholic Church, if they are serious, pay the bill for the illegals. They can do it. They can provide schools and healthcare. There are a lot of Catholic properties that could be sold to pay for their healthcare. No, they want the American people, other people, to pay for it. The taxpayers. That is not humanitarianism. That is not Christian charity. 
   Then what happens when the next wave gets here, 50 to 100 million illegals? First and foremost, the American people should be loyal to each other. We must care for each other. This is not hate mongering. This is not being against people. Americans of every race, every religion, every ethnic background, we need to be compassionate to each other and each other's families. We must not drain the limited resources that we have for the Americans in order to give it to the other people who have come here illegally, because we must first care for our own people. 
   That is not hate. That is the right kind of love you have in your heart for your family and your neighbors. This is not humanitarianism, when we give this away to others and encourage millions more to come here. It will cause the collapse of our system and all of us will be worse off. 
   The immigration legislation being foisted upon us will create a different America with a permanent alien underclass, people who may or may not share our Democratic values and may or may not be loyal to America's ideals. It is time for patriots to act, to stand up and be heard. Be angry. Call on elected officials to be held accountable. 
   This supposed comprehensive immigration bill must be defeated, and I would call on my fellow Members of Congress and the American people to join in this fight. We need every patriot to be activated now to save America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (EXPRESSING SORROW OF THE HOUSE AT THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE JUANITA MILLENDER-MCDONALD, MEMBER OF CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA -- (House of Representatives - April 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Speaker, I lost two people who were very dear to me this last week, and one was my brother, who passed away Thursday morning, and JUANITA, who just passed away on Sunday. 
   It is really an amazing thing as I have thought about this, just about how similar these two people were, because my brother was very, very active in politics, but he was really non-ideological. He was someone who had a very good heart and was a very generous person, was always looking forward trying to help people get something done. Does that remind of you anybody else? 
   That was JUANITA. I mean, there wasn't an ornery bone in her body. And in politics, you know, we get kicked around and beat up a lot and people lie to us, and people say bad things about us, and I never saw JUANITA ever get mean or vengeful at all towards anybody. 
   And we used to travel back and forth in the airplane. I see some of my friends here who traveled on that same flight. And it was always such a joy to be with her and to spend 4 and 5 hours at a time going across the country. And you can't say that about everybody. Who else do you want to spend 4 or 5 hours with? 
   She was a wonderful person. She had a wonderful heart. 
   And my brother wasn't as successful as JUANITA. When he passed away, he really didn't have a lot of professional success. 
   JUANITA, as we have heard today, had enormous professional and personal success in her life, being a woman who reached up to the height here of power and authority and influence here in Washington, DC and our Nation's Capital. 
   But you know what? Whether it was that or whether it was my poor brother who passed away, both of them died of liver cancer, I might add. Both of them died of liver cancer, just so close to each other. 
   But, you know, when they lay us down in our casket, no matter what we have accomplished in the material world, it is what we have done to try to help others, how good a heart we have, how generous we have been to other people, not just financially, but with our time and with our love and with our caring. Those are the things that we carry with us. 
   I believe my brother, he was a very accomplished and successful person in that way. And we certainly know that today, JUANITA was a wonderful success in her life. She cared about people. She never was captured by the meanness and orneriness that comes with politics sometimes. 
   She always wanted to get things done. She worked with me. Our districts came together in Long Beach and we worked together on so many programs for the people of Long Beach, especially in the areas of transportation and water and health care, and she was always there trying to talk to me, saying what can we get done. 
   I am a conservative Republican and she was a Democrat, but she always wanted to work together to try to do things to help other people. So I am very proud tonight to stand up and say that I will miss JUANITA. I am going to miss my brother, obviously. But this world has lost two wonderful souls, two wonderful human beings. And I am pleased to add my voice tonight to say, goodbye, JUANITA, and we are going to miss you. You had lots of love in your heart, and we love you. Bye-bye. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1908, PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the rule, as well as opposition to the underlying legislation. 
   Let us note that this debate has been limited today, which is consistent with the substance of this legislation. The process, as well as the substance of H.R. 1908 is totally unacceptable. This bill should be called the Steal American Technologies Act Part 2. 
   Yes, Mr. Berman and I have worked on this legislation over the years, and I thought that we had a compromise bill in 1999, with Howard Coble and others; and this bill just negates all of the compromises that were made and the honest attempts to reach a good patent bill. 
   Yes, there was a patent bill that was passed and went into law in 1999, let us note. This isn't the first patent reform legislation in the last 50 years; it's only the worst patent reform legislation over the last 50 years. This legislation, under the guise of reform, will dramatically diminish the constitutionally protected rights that were mandated by our Founders and that have been the impulse behind our Nation's prosperity and security. 
   H.R. 1908 will dramatically weaken the patent rights of ordinary Americans and make us even more vulnerable to the outright theft of American-created technology and innovation. This legislation represents a slow-motion destruction of our patent system. 
   So what's in the bill? First and foremost we know what's in the bill is a mandate to publish every patent application within 18 months, or after 18 months of that application being applied, whether or not that patent has been granted. 
   So we are giving every thief in the world in India and in China and Japan and Korea the details of our most up-to-date innovative ideas, even before they are protected by the patents. We are being told, of course, Mr. Issa has an amendment that will handle this. 
   Don't be fooled. Whether or not the Issa amendment passes, this legislation will still mandate the publication of most patent applications before the patent is issued. 
   America's secrets will be exposed to a world filled with infringers and thieves. So don't be fooled by the Issa amendment, just the way we shouldn't be fooled by the very nature of this bill being called a reform bill when it should be called the Patent Destruction Act. 
   Secondly, this bill opens up new avenues of attack before and after the patent has been issued, again weakening the inventor, strengthening the infringers, both foreign and domestic. 
   Third, the bill changes the criteria of deciding the validity for a patent, again at the cost of the inventor. Fourth, the bill changes the way damages are calculated, again, at the expense of the inventor, and in the process creating havoc in our courts and forcing judges to be economists. 
   The most fundamental of all, of course, we change the legal basis of our system from first-to-invent, which has been, historically, for 200 years, the basis of the patent system, and now we are changing it to first-to-file, the way they do in Europe and in Japan. Do we really want to have a country like Japan? Look at their creative history. They rely on all of our ideas to perfect. 
   In short, every promise of H.R. 1908 is anti-inventor, and every provision weakens the right of inventors and undermines one's ability to protect his or her invention. The electronic and financial industry billionaires who are pushing this are pushing it to facilitate their theft of new innovation. Yes, these guys are important to our economy, but the opposition to H.R. 1908 from the other economic sectors in our economy is deep and wide. 
   Many of those quoted by Mr. Berman as having testified in these hearings are opposed to this bill. Biotech, pharmaceuticals, labor unions, universities, small businesses, all are against, adamantly against, this bill. Let us protect the little guy from foreign and domestic scavengers who would steal our country's newest ideas from the best and most creative minds of our country. 
   I urge my colleagues to oppose this legislation and this rule.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. I thank my friend from Texas. 
   I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 1908. 
   The proponents suggest that it is the most fundamental and comprehensive change of American patent law in over a half century. Well, that's true, and that's why it should be defeated, because the changes are almost all aimed at undermining the technological creators and strengthening the hand of foreign and domestic thieves and scavengers who would exploit America's most creative minds and use our technology against us. It would be a disaster for individual inventors, with an impressive coalition strongly opposing this legislation: universities, labor unions, biotech industries, pharmaceuticals, nanotech, small business, traditional manufacturers, electronics and computer engineers, as well, of course, the patent examiners themselves who are telling us this will have a horrible impact on our patent system.     
   They are all begging us to vote ``no.'' This so-called reform will make them vulnerable to theft by foreign and domestic technology thieves. Our most  cutting-edge technology will be available to our enemies and our competitors. That is why I call this the Steal American Technologies Act. The billionaires in the electronics industry and the financial industries who are supporting H.R. 1908, many of them already have built their factories in China, would do away with the patent system altogether if they could. They are so powerful and arrogant that they have set out to fundamentally alter our traditional technology protection laws, laws that have served America well for over 200 years. 
   Yes, this is an issue vital to the well-being of the American people, to our standard of living; yet we find ourselves with a severely limited debate. There is only 1 hour of debate. Those of us who are opposing this legislation haven't even been given the right, which is traditional in this body, to control our own time. Yes, the way we are handling this debate is a disgrace. There will be 12 minutes available for those of us who oppose a bill that they claim is so important for the future of our country. 
   What do we know about this bill? It is a horror story for American inventors and a windfall for foreign and domestic thieves. We don't even know what is in the bill. The manager's amendment has been changed even after the committee did its business. So it wasn't even fully debated in the committee and much less fully debated at the subcommittee level. No, what we are doing is a power play here. That is what we are witnessing. The opposition doesn't even get the chance to argue our case adequately before this body or before the American people. Our inventors and our innovators are begging us not to pass this legislation. Foreign and domestic technology thieves are licking their chops. Let's not let the big guys beat down and smash the little guys, which is what the purpose of this legislation is. 
   There are problems in the Patent Office, that is true, that can be fixed without having to fundamentally alter the principles that are the basis of our patent system, which is what this legislation does. This legislation, in the name of reform, is being used as a cover to basically destroy the patent system that has served us so well. In the long term, it will destroy American competitiveness and the standard of living of our working people. That is what is at stake here. Overseas, the people in India, China, Japan and Korea are waiting. We have quotes from newspapers suggesting that as soon as this bill passes, they will have a greater ability to take American technology even before a patent is granted and put it into commercial use against us. 
   This is a shameful, shameful proposal. The American people have a right to know. We are watching out for their interests. I don't care what the billionaires in the electronics industry and the financial industry say. We should have more debate on this. We should have had 2 or 3 hours of debate on this if it is as important as they say. Instead, we have been muzzled, and it is a power grab. Vote against H.R. 1908. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. I would suggest that whoever does control the time should be in opposition, and if Mr. Smith, who I respect greatly, does not oppose the manager's amendment, he should not be in control of the debate against the manager's amendment, and I would note that there are others of us who would like to have that. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Michigan is recognized. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. I yield myself 3 minutes. 
   Let's just note when we are talking, Ms. Kaptur and Mr. Manzullo talk about one of the horrible provisions of the bill, which changes the whole concept of how damages are assessed, and who has benefited by this. 
   We have to ask ourselves, we talk about the Wright brothers, the little guys who actually made all the difference in whether or not America has a high standard of living, the damages that these inventors have when people violate their rights and how those damages are assessed. That's right in this legislation. 
   Yes, they are changing it to the benefit of the infringers. They are beating down the little guys, making it more difficult for the Wright brothers and for all the other little guys who have come up with these ideas in order to help the big corporations. 
   By the way, let me just add this thought: we are not just talking about American corporations here. We are not talking about making inventors just vulnerable to the big American corporations. We are talking about multinational corporations, and we are talking about foreign corporations. 
   Our little guys, with just this change, are going to be dramatically damaged. Their ability, in order to protect their rights, will be dramatically reduced. 
   This is just one example of the type of diminishing of the rights of the inventor in this bill. Yet, we aren't able to discuss it fully. One hour of debate for a bill that's being described here as one of the most important pieces of legislation in the century? One hour of debate in which the opposition was not given a chance to control any time in opposition? This is a disgrace. What's going on? 
   This alone should raise the red flag to all of our Members saying something is going on here; there is a power play people in our legislation aren't being able to control their time. What's happening here? We have a manager's amendment now that was permitted to be changed after it left committee. There wasn't even a proper debate on this bill then and this manager's amendment in the committee, much less the subcommittee. 
   So what we have here is a power play by somebody. The rules don't count when it comes to the bill, because somebody out there really wants it really bad in order to not give us a chance to give the other side, not give the full committee a chance even to discuss these details that are changed in the manager's amendment, not to let the subcommittee play its role. 
   Now, all I am suggesting is this should raise a red flag for all of our Members. All of us should be aware that when these types of shenanigans are being played, something is going on, that the legislation that's being pushed through probably is not good legislation, but, instead, helps a small group of powerful people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. First and foremost, let us note that over and over again we hear, well, they are not opposing the bill. Well, the labor unions and others, many of them are opposing the bill. But the ones you're describing, you're just saying they aren't necessarily supporting the bill. What we are saying, they are not supporting the bill. This has been reconfirmed by what my colleagues have said in the last 10 minutes. 
   Also, let us note, over and over again we hear, we're going to work this out. We're going to work all these things out in the bill as it moves through the process, which means to all of us there are major flaws in this bill, huge flaws in this bill, and we have to take it just on faith that they're going to work out all these flaws as it goes through the process. 
   I would suggest that we take this, we vote ``no'' on this bill, and then let's correct those flaws and come back to the floor when you've got a bill that isn't flawed. Let's go back to the floor when you can support a bill with an honest debate and not be so afraid of a debate that you'll neuter the chances and mute our opposition voices by giving us almost no time to discuss the issues. 
   I would yield to my friend, Ms. Kaptur. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Reclaiming my time, Ms. Kaptur has made a really important observation here, and that is, at the end of the day, yeah, the Issa amendment does make some changes, but at the end of the day, there will be American patent applications in which the inventor would like to keep secret until he gets the patent issued to him, which will be published for all of the thieves in China and India and Japan and Korea and elsewhere who would like to have all of that information before the patent is issued. There will still be a significant number of patent applications published for the whole world to see, and the patent applicant doesn't want that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. So in the end, where Mr. Issa's amendment does take things one or two steps forward, the fact is it doesn't come anywhere close to offering the protection that currently exists in the law that is being destroyed by the language in the Steal American Technologies Act, H.R. 1908. 
   Let me just note, for my own situation, in terms of the chairman asking  me about my credentials in terms of being associated with labor, I was a member of a labor union. I actually scrubbed toilets at times in my life. I have had menial jobs. I care about the working people. My family comes from working class farmers, poor farmers and people who went off to defend this country. 
   The American people, the standard of living of ordinary people depends on technology. This bill that's being proposed will give our technological secrets to our competitors which undermines the working people's chances here of competing with cheap labor overseas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. This is yet another example of why this overall bill should be defeated. The fact is that we shouldn't be changing the provision and permitting outside agencies and taking authority away from us from setting the basic ground rules about patents in the first place. This idea that, well, let me put it this way. This bill is so filled with this type of imperfection, and as we have had our guarantee from those people who brought this bill to the floor so precipitously, they will work really hard to make sure all the flaws are out. I would suggest that that statement alone should have all these red flags going up for all of us. And then the muting of the opposition and not permitting us an adequate amount of time to actually discuss the provisions of the bill and not giving us time to control our own opposition, again, should be the red flags for all of us who's listening to this debate. 
   I yield 1 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Gohmert). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Let me just note I think it is really much more important to talk about provisions of the bill rather than trying to point out things about each other, and that is one of the reasons we needed more time in this debate so that we could actually get into the provisions of this bill. 
   The fact that no matter what happens with Mr. Issa's first amendment, that still there will be patent applications that will be published for the world to see even before the patent is issued; that our overseas competitors will then have information that they will be able to use to outcompete us even before our patents are issued to those inventors who have applied for patents. Those are the issues we need to talk about. 
   We need to talk about why the assessment of damages has been changed in a way that helps these big guys, these big companies that Ms. Kaptur has just outlined, as well as the foreign corporations, I might add, at the expense of the small inventor. The inventor is just trying to prevent theft of his lifetime of work. We have to know why we have had different ways of determining the validity of a patent and opening up challenges in the front of the patent as well as afterwards so that we add cost after cost after cost to the little guy. 
   We need to discuss these things in detail. Instead we have 1 hour in which the opposition, I think, had 12 minutes in order to discuss these issues. This should raise a flag to everyone listening to this debate. Why is Congress trying to stampede the rest of the Members of Congress into voting for an act that could be so damaging to the American people? 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The time of the gentleman has expired. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to Mr. Roscoe Bartlett, Ph.D., a man who holds 20 patents, a man who is greatly respected for his scientific knowledge and who has been deeply appreciated for the advice he has given us in that endeavor in the last 15 years in Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Let's note that there are several amendments that were not permitted by the Rules Committee. I did not submit amendments because those of us who have been following this bill realize it is fundamentally flawed. The purpose of the bill is to support those large corporations that Ms. Kaptur noted who are dramatically supporting the legislation. And it is being opposed, I might add, by a large number of universities, unions, pharmaceutical industries, biotech industries, et cetera, et cetera. So we have everybody except the electronics industry and the financial industry, who are already over in China making their profit at our expense, are opposed to the bill. 
   I yield my remaining 30 seconds to the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Bartlett). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. I would, first of all, submit for the Record a list of several hundred organizations, including unions and universities, et cetera, all of whom have raised objections to the patent legislation, H.R. 1908, not necessarily that they're all opposed to it, but they have strong objections. 
   Organizations and Companies Which Have Raised Objections to Patent Legislation (H.R. 1908) 
   Organizations and Companies Raising Objections to H.R. 1908, the Patent Reform Act of 2007: 3M, Abbott, Accelerated Technologies, Inc., Acorn Cardiovascular Inc., Adams Capital Management, Adroit Medical Systems, Inc., AdvaMed, Advanced Diamond Technologies, Inc., Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, Inc., Aero-Marine Company, AFL-CIO, African American Republican Leadership Council. 
   Air Liquide, Air Products, ALD NanoSolutions, Inc., ALIO Industries, Allergan, Inc., Almyra, Inc., AmberWave Systems Corporation, American Conservative Union, American Intellectual Property Law Association (AIPLA), American Seed Trade, Americans for Sovereignty. 
   Americans for the Preservation of Liberty, Amylin Pharmaceuticals, AngioDynamics, Inc., Applied Medical, Applied Nanotech, Inc., Argentis Pharmaceuticals, LLC, Arizona BioIndustry Association, ARYx Therapeutics, Ascenta Therapeutics, Inc., Association of University Technology Managers (AUTM). 
   Asthmatx, Inc., AstraZeneca, Aware, Inc., Baxa Corporation, Baxter Healthcare Corporation, BayBio, Beckman Coulter, BIO--Biotechnology Industry Organization, BioCardia, Inc., BIOCOM, Biogen Idec, Biomedical Association, BioOhio, Bioscience Institute, Biotechnology Council of New Jersey. 
   Blacks for Economic Security Trust Fund, BlazeTech Corporation, Boston Scientific, Bridgestone Americas Holding, Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb, BuzzLogic, California Healthcare Institute, Canopy Ventures, Carbide Derivative Technologies, Cardiac Concepts, Inc., CardioDynamics, Cargill, Inc., Cassie-Shipherd Group, Caterpillar, Celgene Corporation, Cell Genesys, Inc., Center 7, Inc., Center for Small Business and the Environment, Centre for Security Policy, Cephalon, CheckFree, Christian Coalition of America. 
   Cincinnati Sub-Zero Products, Coalition for 21st Century Patent Reform, Coalitions for America, CogniTek Management Systems, Inc., Colorado Bioscience Association, Conceptus, Inc., CONNECT, Connecticut United for Research Excellence, Cornell University, Corning, Coronis Medical Ventures, Council for America, CropLife America, Cryptography Research, Cummins Inc., Cummins-Allison Corporation. 
   CVRx Inc., Dais Analytic Corporation, Dartmouth Regional Technology Center, Inc., Declaration Alliance, Deltanoid Pharmaceuticals, Digimarc Corporation, DirectPointe, Dow Chemical Company, Dupont, Dura-Line Corporation, Dynatronics Co., Eagle Forum, Eastman Chemical Company, Economic Development Center, Edwards Lifesciences, Elan Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Electronics for Imaging, Eli Lilly and Company, Ellman Innovations LLC, Enterprise Partners Venture Capital, Evalve, Inc. 
   Exxon Mobile Corporation, Fallbrook Technologies Inc., FarSounder, Inc. Footnote.com. 
   Gambro BCT, General Electric, Genomic Health, Inc., Gen-Probe Incorporated, Genzyme, Georgia Biomedical Partnership, Glacier Cross, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline, Glenview State Bank, Hawaii Science & Technology Council, HealthCare Institute of New Jersey, HeartWare, Inc., Helius, Inc., Henkel Corporation, Hoffman-LaRoche, Inc. 
   iBIO, Imago Scientific Instruments, Impulse Dynamics (USA), Inc., Indiana Health Industry Forum, Indiana University, Innovation Alliance, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)-USA, InterDigital Communications Corporation, Intermolecular, Inc., International Association of Professional and Technical Engineers (IFPTE), Invitrogen Corporation, Iowa Biotechnology Association, ISTA Pharmaceuticals, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Johnson & Johnson, KansasBio, Leadership Institute, Let Freedom Ring, Life Science Alley, LITMUS, LLC. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. I would yield myself the right to close, and this is the final, I guess, arguments in this debate. 
   We can correct the flaws at the Patent Office. We do not need to destroy the American patent system as it has functioned for 200 years. We do not need to make all of our inventors vulnerable to foreign theft so foreigners and large corporations can steal their creative genius and use it against us. That is what this bill does. It is being foisted off on us. The process has been flawed. As we can see, we have had limited debate. They brought this to the floor admitting there are flaws in the bill. We need to defeat the Steal American Technologies Act and go back and work on it so we can make real reform rather than a bill that is going to help America's economic adversaries. 
   I would ask my colleagues to join me in supporting the little guy against the big guy and demonstrating that that is the rules of the game here. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Pence). 
   The amendment was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to withdraw my requests for recorded votes on the amendments numbered 2, 3 and 4, to the end that each such amendment stand disposed of by the voice vote thereon. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from California? 
   There was no objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the NASA Authorization Act, H.R. 6063. I would like to salute Chairman BART GORDON and Ranking Member RALPH HALL and Subcommittee Chairman Udall and Ranking Member Feeney. 
   They have done a terrific job this year. There has been no better example of bipartisan cooperation and a spirit of goodwill that I have ever found in this Congress than what I have found in these last 2 years on this committee. I salute all those who are involved, and I am very proud to be part of this team. 
   Space-based assets have become such a part of our way of life that quite often they are taken for granted. Just recently, when we experienced hurricanes and noted the damage that was done by these great natural catastrophes, sometimes people forget how much worse it would have been had we not been tracking these hurricanes as they headed towards populated areas. 
   We were able to save many thousands of lives and save many billions of dollars in damage because we have had space-based assets that permitted us to be able to make that contribution to our fellow human beings, saving their lives and property in the face of an oncoming storm by giving them adequate warning. 
   We also know that today our telephone calls are cheap, and they are clear. But this is dramatically different than what it was before we had space-based assets up there taking care of our communications. 
   The fact is that space-based assets have permitted people to take time and to communicate with their loved ones. We talk about our country when we talk about life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, talking to your grandfather, or letting your children talk to their grandparents on the phone. 
   When I was a kid, it cost maybe $5 or $6, and you could barely hear on the phone. You could barely hear. It was so expensive, you called once a month at the most. Now people can talk to their loved ones. Space-based assets have  done this, have increased our happiness, our level of happiness in this world. 
   Again, those communications satellites also have brought down the cost of entertainment, as we know. The fact is, the competition the space-based assets have given to the cable industry have brought down that cost. 
   GPS guides us to our locations, whether we are talking about jets or talking about automobiles, or even where farmers will plant their crops. Space-based assets are making such a difference in our lives. 
   Of course, space-based assets are making America much safer. When we meet adversaries overseas, our people have that advantage. It's keeping us free, it's keeping us safe. 
   Of course, when you talk about safety, I have been particularly interested in ensuring that we pay attention to the potential threat posed by near-Earth objects. NASA, of course, has tracked and catalogued over 90 percent of those objects in space that could destroy the human race, and we are very grateful for that job. But that leaves, of course, thousands of space objects that could cause horrendous damage and loss of life that still need to be tracked. 
   This bill authorizes $2 million to keep the Arecibo telescope functioning. That Arecibo telescope in Puerto Rico is essential to this element of safety that we are providing by tracking near-Earth objects. 
   As I say, without the telescope, there may be, perhaps, something, if we learned early enough that we could deflect that might come here and kill millions of people. We are paying attention to this. This NASA authorization takes a step in the right direction there in keeping the Arecibo telescope alive. 
   We should be cooperating in space. All of these things cost money, and other countries have benefited by our research. We need to cooperate with Europe, Japan, Russia, and other countries to make sure that we can accomplish what we can do more by joining them than if we were alone in this. 
   However, that cooperation does not mean that we should not continue to be the leaders in space activity. We will no longer be the leading power on the Earth unless we are the leading power in space. 
   This is the 50th anniversary of NASA, and it is fitting that we set our sights on continuing to be the world's leading power in space. We can lead humankind into a better era. We have done that in the cause of human freedom. We will do that in the cause of technology and human development. 
   I stand here with pride and join my colleagues. I salute them for all the hard work they have done and in asking my colleagues to join me in authorizing NASA in this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (MAN-MADE GLOBAL WARMING -- (House of Representatives - May 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I preface my remarks with a personal statement that, while I am opposed to the advocates of man-made global warming theories, I am committed to a clean and healthy environment, to purifying our air, our water, and our soil; all of this for the sake of the people of this planet, including my three children, Anika, Tristan and Christian. I do this not because of some paranoid theory that humans are changing the climate of the world, but instead, I am very concerned about the health of the people of the world and, thus, committed to clean air, clean soil, and clean water. 
   Thus, we have, today, to take a look at the issues of global warming and pollution that confront our society because there are enormous implications to this whole discussion of what has been called ``man-made global warming.'' 
   Only 18 months ago the refrain ``Case closed: Global warming is real,'' was repeated as if the mantra from some religious zealots. It was pounded into the public consciousness over the airwaves, in print, and even at congressional hearings, ``Case closed.'' Well, this was obviously a brazen attempt to end open discussion and to silence differing views by dismissing the need for seriously contrary arguments and seriously listening to both sides of an argument. And rather than hearing both sides of the argument, this was an attempt to dismiss arguments even though the person making the arguments might have a very impressive credential or might be a very educated scientist or someone else who should be listened to. 
   And yes, there are dozens, if not hundreds, of prominent scientists and meteorologists, the heads of science departments at major universities, and others, who are highly critical of the man-made global warming theory. There is Dr. Richard Lindzen of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He has been adamant in his opposition, as has a Bjarne Andresen of the University of Copenhagen, Adreas Prokoph, a professor of earth sciences at the University of Ottawa, Dr. William Gray, a famous hurricane expert and former President of the American Meteorological Association, and Dr. Kevin Trenberth, the head of the Climate Analysis Section at the National Center of Atmospheric Research. All of these are respected scholars, all skeptical of the unwarranted alarmism that we are being pressured to accept. 
   But their views and those of so many more prominent scholars and scientists don't matter. The debate is over. Al Gore has his Nobel Prize, and the film, ``An Inconvenient Truth,'' its Academy Award. So shut up and get your mind in lockstep with the politically correct prevailing wisdom, or at least what the media tells us is the prevailing wisdom. And no questions, please, the case is closed. We heard that dozens and dozens of times. 
   So what is this theory that now is so accepted that no more debate is needed or even tolerated? The man-made global warming theory may be presented as scientific truism, but it is not. It is a disturbing theory that the Earth began a warming cycle 150 years ago that differed greatly from all the other warming and cooling cycles in the Earth's past. This warming cycle of 150 years ago, we keep being told, is tied directly to mankind's use of fossil fuels, basically oil and coal, which, of course, oil and coal and these fuels, these so-called fossil fuels, have powered our industries and made modern civilization possible. 
   Fossil fuels, we are told, puts an ever-increasing so-called level of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, and  the most prevalent of these gases, of course, being carbon dioxide, CO  
   2. This increase in CO 
   2 causes the warming that we are supposedly experiencing today. This man-made warming cycle, according to the theory, is rapidly approaching a tipping point when the world's temperatures will abruptly jump and accelerate with dire and perhaps apocalyptic consequences for the entire planet. 
   For skeptics of this hypothesis, the consequence of accepting this theory, the consequences are far more dire than any of the consequences we're supposed to be suffering out of a predicted rise in temperature. And by the way, that rise in temperature, of course, isn't really happening, which we will discuss a little bit later. 
   If one accepts this as fact rather than theory, this idea that man-made global warming is overwhelming our planet, then one would be expected to also accept controls, regulations, taxation, international planning and enforcement, mandated lifestyle changes, lowering expectations, limiting consumer choice, as well as 
   personal and family sacrifices that are all going to be necessary for us to save the planet from--well, from us. 
   It really takes a lot to frighten people into accepting such personally restrictive mandates that would result from implementing a global warming-based agenda. People's lives will change if we decide to implement a global warming-based agenda. Yes, people's lives will change, but not for the better if we have to end, for example, discount airline tickets and cheap travel. 
   Most people who listen to the global warming advocates don't understand that the global warming advocates believe that jet planes are some of the worst CO  
   2 polluters, and thus they have to be restricted, according to the theory. So how many people really do want to end the cheap airline tickets that can be had over the Internet? 
   Obviously one of the goals will be to severely restrict the use of private automobiles. Sure. Now, we know that. The fact that the automobile has been targeted for the last 20 years certainly suggests that automobiles are on the hit list. But don't worry, we may have to give up our automobiles, but the rich and the government officials will still have their private jets, their Suburbans, and even their limousines. But the rest of us, of course, will be relegated to public transportation. And we will have very limited travel rights unless we can, of course, afford the higher and higher prices. 
   Global warming predictions appear designed to strike fear into the heart of those malcontents who just won't willingly accept the mandates in their lifestyle changes that are needed in order to save the planet. These people, of course, won't accept things like higher food prices, which will come with an implementation of global warming mandates. And of course they certainly won't accept less meat in their diet. That's right, part of the manmade global warming theory and how we're going to solve this is to wean mankind away from meat. 
   A 2006 report entitled ``Livestock's Long Shadow'' to the United Nations mentions livestock emissions and grazing, and it places the blame for global warming squarely on the hind parts of cows. Livestock, the report claims, accounts for 18 percent of the gases that supposedly cause the global warming of our climate. Cows are greenhouse-emitting machines. Fuel for fertilizer and meat production and transportation, as well as clearing the fields for grazing, produce 9 percent of the global CO  
   2 emissions, according to the report. And also, cows produce ammonia, causing acid rain, of course. 
   Now, if that's not bad enough, all of these numbers are projected in this report to double by the year 2050. Well, not only are we then going to have to cut personal transportation, which will keep us at home, but when we stay at home, we can't even have a bbq. And heck, they won't even let us have a hamburger. 
   I would like to point out that before the introduction of cattle, millions upon millions of buffalo dominated the Great Plains of America. They were so thick you could not see where the herd started and where it ended. I can only assume that the anti-meat, manmade global warming crowd must believe that buffalo farts have more socially redeeming value than the same flatulence emitted by cattle. Yes, this is absurd, but the deeper one looks into this global warming juggernaut, the weirder this movement becomes and the more denial is evident. 
   Ten years ago, for example, the alarmists predicted that by now we would be clearly plagued by surging temperatures. In testimony before Congress 20 years ago, now, says James Hansen, a man who has repeatedly challenged people who simply want to make sure that his views are balanced off at NASA, but NASA's James Hansen 20 years ago predicted CO  
   2 would shoot up and global temperatures would shoot up by more than one-third of a degree Celsius during the 1990s. 
   So a rise in temperature was predicted, and it would lead to what? Rising sea levels. In the end, we'll have rising sea levels, perhaps even cities under water, droughts and famines, and of course an increase in tropical diseases. Yes, tropical diseases. Sometimes it's difficult for me to hear it when certain environmentalists use that as an example, considering the fact that tropical diseases, namely malaria, has killed millions of children in the Third World because the environmentalists have been successful in banning DDT. But that's another issue.     
   But the point is there are serious consequences, perhaps unintended consequences to following nonsensical extremism in the arena of the environment. 
   So were the predictions of global heating correct? Forget ``case closed.'' The question needs to be answered. Were all of these predictions correct? Mr. Hansen said it would rise by a third of a degree just a little over a decade ago. And the answer is that the predictions of a decade ago have turned out to be dramatically wrong. Temperatures during that decade rose only one-third of the jump predicted by Hansen, a modest 0.11, one-third of what he had predicted. 
   Furthermore, numerous and powerful hurricanes that were forecast by the National Hurricane Center, for example, at NOAA and others, well, by now we haven't seen such a trend, and by now we were led to believe there would be a drought and a melting of the ice caps would be clearly upon us. My beautiful Sierra Nevada Mountains in California were due to heat up, dry up, brown up, and burn, burn, burn. Yep, during the entire Clinton administration, we heard these predictions over and over again. During the Clinton administration, we saw scientists produce study after study predicting the horrific impact of the unstoppable onslaught of man-made global warming, which we were led to believe would be overwhelming us right now. Right now. Of course, if there was even a hint that the conclusion of their research wouldn't back up the theory of man-made global warming, these scientists wouldn't have seen one red cent from the Federal research pool during the Clinton administration. 
   In a September, 2005, article from Discovery Magazine, Dr. William Gray, now an emeritus professor of atmospheric science at Colorado State University and a former president of the American Meteorological Association, was asked if funding problems that he was experiencing and has been experiencing could be traced to his skepticism of man-made global warming. His response: ``I had NOAA money for 30 years, and then when the Clinton administration came in and Gore started directing some of the environmental stuff, I was cut off. I couldn't get any money from NOAA. They turned down 13 straight proposals from me.'' This man is one of the most prominent hurricane experts in the world, cut off during the Clinton-Gore administration because he had been skeptical of global warming. 
   In fact, Al Gore's first act as Vice President was to insist that William Harper be fired as the Chief Scientist at the Department of Energy. Now, why was that? Well, that's because William Harper had uttered words indicating that he was open minded to the issue of global warming. So off with his head. They didn't want someone who was open minded. They wanted someone who was going to provide grants based on people who would verify this man-made global warming theory. Now, that was 1993 when Mr. Harper  was relieved, the first year of the Clinton-Gore administration. So for over a decade, all we got was a drumbeat of one-sided research, setting the stage for the false claim that there is a scientific consensus about whether or not man-made global warming is real. 
   Unfortunately, for all those scientists who went along with the scheme, now, over a decade later, there is a big problem. Contrary to what all those scientists living on their Federal research grants predicted, the world hasn't been getting warmer. In fact, for the last 7 years, there has been no warming at all, which has been verified even by, for example, Michel Jarraud of the World Meteorological Organization. He's their Secretary General. He reluctantly admitted that global temperatures have not risen since 1998, according to a BBC article. Global snowfall is at record levels and there are fewer, not more, hurricanes. 
   Furthermore, there is some melting in the Arctic. We all know that there is some melting in the Arctic because we hear about it over and over again. In fact, NBC did some special on the melting of the Arctic and how bad it is and showed the pictures of penguins sitting on a diminishing piece of ice in the Arctic. Except there was a problem with that story. You see, penguins don't live in the Arctic; they live in the Antarctic. There are no penguins in the Arctic. So NBC had it wrong. Somebody must have told them that the penguins from the Arctic were being victimized by global warming. In fact, in the Antarctic, where the penguins are, there is a buildup of ice. It is getting cooler. And in the Arctic, of course, we do recognize there has been a warming in the Arctic, likely due to ocean currents that have changed in the last few years and not due to CO  
   2 that comes from somebody's SUV. 
   After hearing about the extinction of the polar bear, which has been drummed into our heads, we now hear that--and by the way, just today the polar bear was put on an endangered species list. But are the polar bears really disappearing? We now hear from Dr. Mitchell Taylor from the Department of the Environment under the Canadian territory of Nunavut and other experts, I might add, who suggest, yes, all but one or two species of the polar bears are flourishing. Yes, of the twenty-odd species, there are perhaps one or two that are suffering and not doing well, but all the rest of the species of polar bear are expanding. In fact, we don't have a situation with fewer polar bears; we've got more polar bears. Yet our government is putting the polar bear on an endangered species list, saying that if the ice cap melts, the polar bears will all be going away because their habitat has been destroyed. 
   Unfortunately, the debate on this case is not closed. So explaining emerging obvious differences between the reality and the theory needs to be addressed by the people who have been advocating global warming. The case is not closed. The gnomes of climate theory now have to come up with explanations for us of why it was predicted that the weather would be this way at this time and it is not. Why is it that basically we've had stable weather, if not a little cooler weather, for the last 8 years? 
   The first attempt to basically cover their tracks about this noticeable dichotomy in what they predicted and what was happening happened a few years ago, and it went very slowly but very cleverly. The words ``climate change'' have now replaced the words ``global warming.'' Get that? Every time you hear it now, half the time they are going to be using the words ``climate change'' where those very same people were so adamant about ``global warming'' only 4 or 5 years ago. So no matter what happens now, now that they've changed it to ``climate change'' rather than global warming, whatever happens to the weather pattern, whether it's hotter or cooler, it can be presented as further verification of human-caused change. If you just had ``human-caused warming,'' it would have to be at least warming for them to actually have any verification of what they were trying to say. But right now by using ``climate change,'' they can bolster their right to be taken seriously upon recommending policies, even though no matter what direction the climate goes, it is justified by how they are labeling themselves. 
   I'm sorry, fellows. Do you really think the world is filled with morons? When it comes to bait and switch, used car salesmen are paragons of virtue compared to this global warming crowd. Excuse me. It's not the ``global warming'' crowd now; it's the ``climate change'' crowd. Of course, they don't want any of us to own automobiles; so 
   what the heck. They can act like used car salesmen because there will be more jobs for them as being advocates in the climate change arena. 
   We just need to ask ourselves, if a salesman gives a strong pitch and claims something that is later found to be wrong, totally wrong, when does one stop trusting that salesman? Then if he starts playing word games, changing the actual words that he's using about the same product rather than just admitting an error, isn't it reasonable to stop trusting him? 
   Yes, Al Gore and company, we have noticed that you are now saying ``climate change'' rather than ``global warming.'' I know that people tried to slip it in, but we have noticed, and there is something behind this that the American people should take note of. Why has that changed? Well, that's because the world has not been getting warmer in these last 7 years, as they predicted it would be. 
   So instead of word games, what these advocates need to explain is what is happening in the real world today and why it doesn't match what they said was going to happen based on their ``case closed, man-made global warming is real.'' They must realize that someone is bound to notice that last winter was unusually cold and that chilly weather seems to be the trend. It actually snowed in Denver just less than a month ago, and people have commented on the chilliness of the weather this year. 
   So now we see a beehive of activity going on. Those federally funded scientists are trying to save some modicum of credibility by adjusting their computers and coming up with some explanations that keep man-made global warming as a theory but explains away the current dichotomy between what they said would happen and what is actually happening. Of course, computer models were used to justify their hysteria and their hysteric warming predictions to begin with. So now the computer's information input is readjusted and we can see all these things coming out of it. 
   Well, there's a lot of questions that need to be answered and a lot of things that were told to us that obviously are not true and are not consistent with what's been going on and what we see happening around us today. 
   And why is this of such concern to us? Why are we concerned that global warming as a theory has been presented and that it's false, and why should we be so concerned that it's being accepted? What could be the negative results of just accepting it from some people who might be very sincere, very sincere and concerned about the planet? 
   Well, what happens in such cases as this is that we have situations that occur and people then actually come to the point where they are focused on aspects of what's going on in the world that will not make it better but instead have terrible consequences in and of themselves. 
   For example, a deadly cyclone just brought death and destruction to Burma, and it was a horrible thing. Burma is a country that is run by a vicious dictatorship, and after the cyclone went through Burma, the dictatorship wouldn't even permit our supplies to be given to those people of Burma. Well, Al Gore is so committed to this idea of global warming, which, of course, most people call ``climate change,'' that when commenting on Burma, instead of talking about the monstrous nature of the Burmese regime, instead he had to say, ``The trend toward more category five storms--the larger ones and the trend toward stronger and more destructive storms appears to be linked to global warming and specifically to the impact of global warming on higher ocean temperatures in the top couple of hundred feet of the ocean, which drives convection energy and moisture into these storms and makes them more powerful.'' 
   What should Al Gore's reaction have been? Well, what it should have been was ``The Burmese regime is despicable. The Burmese people are suffering. They are dying by the hundreds  of thousands. It is despicable for this dictatorship not to permit our aid in.'' But instead that was ignored, and what Al Gore did focus on ``This is a chance for me to explain global warming,'' as the quote I just gave suggested.     
   Well, the Burmese cyclone hit Burma. If you take a look at what Al Gore's words were, he is trying to say that it is because of the warming of the water. I have in front of me, which I will submit as part of the Record, a satellite image of ocean temperatures taken by NOAA on May 5 which suggests the ocean in the area of the Burmese cyclone is one of the coldest water areas on Earth. 
   So what the heck is Mr. Gore talking about? What is all this mumbo jumbo? Again, he is warning about global warming because he is grasping at an attempt to try to verify in some way his predictions that have been all wrong for the last 5 years. 
   Dr. William Gray, for example, as I mentioned, the former chairman of the American Meteorological Association, a pre-eminent hurricane expert, has noted ``there is no reliable data available to indicate increased hurricane frequency or intensity in any of the globe's seven tropical cyclone basins.'' So hurricanes and cyclones are not a product of global warming. Dr. Gray, I think, has more credentials than Mr. Gore. But most convincingly, the most convincing part of this is that no matter what Al Gore says about the warming of this water, that is not what we are hearing from other sources. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (JUBILEE ACT FOR RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND EXPANDED DEBT CANCELLATION OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this basic legislation, which would instruct, of course, the Secretary of Treasury to negotiate debt relief for developing countries, especially those new democracies. 
   And let me note that much of the debt that we have heard about today that has had such a horrible impact on the way of living, on the standard of living of people throughout the developing world, that debt is basically a result of dictatorship. It is not a result of democratic governments making wrong decisions. By and large we're talking about governments that have been run by authoritarians and gangsters who are putting their own people in debt. I would suggest that anyone who lends money to a dictatorship should take notice and they are doing so at their own risk. However, these people who establish democratic government and replace dictatorships should not be forced to bear the burden of having massive debt. This is what keeps these countries down even once they've replaced their dictators. 
   For example, in the Soviet Union, once the Communist Party was displaced and they had free elections, we insisted that they not renounce their debt. We did not forgive their debt. That threw the Soviet Union into horrible economic chaos, which then democratic Russia that was paying for the sins of the Communist dictatorship that preceded it. We almost lost democracy in Russia because we were insisting on debt repayment and the people didn't have any moral reason to pay that back. 
   I will have an amendment, and I am very grateful to Barney Frank for backing my ability to propose the amendment, that suggests that it be a democratically elected government and not just someone who's suggesting they will be democratic in the future that gets this debt relief. This gives the right kind of incentive. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (JUBILEE ACT FOR RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND EXPANDED DEBT CANCELLATION OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Let me congratulate and thank Congressman Frank. Barney has been very fair. He backed my ability to have an amendment on the floor, and I will talk about that amendment next. But let me note when he stated that our goal is debt relief for these countries that are trying  to do right for their people, I think that in the manager's amendment, and the Congressman did reach out to try to find language that was agreeable, but I don't think that we have reached that language. 
   I think there is still wiggle room in the language of the manager's amendment that would permit countries that are governed by authoritarian people who are claiming that they are going to have democratic elections is still there. Our State Department quite often supports those governments and would like to claim they are heading in that direction, like the government of Ethiopia, which in their last election threw everybody who won the elections in jail. But now they are our greatest ally in Africa. The State Department would love to have debt relief to a country like that. We shouldn't be doing that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (JUBILEE ACT FOR RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND EXPANDED DEBT CANCELLATION OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chairman, the amendment I am offering is easy to understand. It insists that if we provide debt relief, the recipient country's government must have a democratically elected government. The reason this is important is very clear. The dictators and kooks and gangsters who rule many Third World nations and developing countries will simply steal more if we give them the chance. Those who steal from their people will steal from us. Debt relief to dictators is a license to steal. 
   I understand there are those who believe that we should not set such a high standard of having a democratically elected government as a prerequisite to debt relief. If dictatorships are overthrown, it is postulated then that democratic reformers will need time to hold a free election. The monetary impact of that short time period in order to have a free election organized is minimal and the number of such cases are very, very few. But that is the worst case scenario. The price of debt relief will in fact prevent foot dragging so there will be free elections at a quicker pace. 
   On the other hand, a standard of requiring only a commitment to future and free elections opens the door to large scale manipulations and backtracking on democratic commitments by dictators or by those holding power after dictators have been overthrown. Give those in power in the Third World countries a chance to put off elections and they will just do that. Giving them the wrong incentives and opening up the door to false promises for future elections and giving them a benefit for it enables large scale theft. 
   The chances of this negative impact, of having a lower democratic standard, is great as compared to the number of minimal cases that we will have if we are just asking true democratic reformers to hold elections before we give debt forgiveness. 
   We have seen it over and over again in the Third World. Third World politicians claim they will hold elections, but never quite seem to get there.     
   If we don't act to close it, this loophole will have a huge impact and allow debt relief to governments that have not instituted and have no real intent of instituting Democratic reform. 
   Yes, I have no faith in our State Department or this administration to enforce that rule to see if they are really intent on democracy. If our standard is that words are enough, the tough guys of the world who rule too many countries will lie and get their hands on the loot with our State Department's approval, surprise, surprise. 
   That's why my amendment is important. We should side with the Democratic reformers, not those who simply use the right words. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, which makes sense, and reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (JUBILEE ACT FOR RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND EXPANDED DEBT CANCELLATION OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. I appreciate that thought very much. 
   Again, I appreciate the fairness that I have been treated with. I will show my bipartisanship a little more. I  think that I have been treated more fairly and a number of my Republican colleagues have been treated more fairly since the Democrats have become the majority than I was treated by my own leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (AMERICAN PATENT LAW -- (House of Representatives - September 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, tonight I would like to raise a red flag to draw attention, the attention of my fellow Members, who are here assembled, as well as those listening on C-SPAN and those who will be reading this in the Congressional Record. 
   On Friday, legislation is scheduled to come to the floor of the House that will have a huge impact on the American people, yet it is receiving little attention. What is it? It is a proposal to dramatically diminish a constitutionally protected right by fundamentally altering America's patent system. 
   If H.R. 1908, the bill in question, passes, there will be tremendous long-term negative consequences for our country. 
   Patent law is thought to be so complicated and esoteric that most people tune out once they realize that's what the subject is. Yet our technological genius and the laws protecting and promoting that genius have been at the heart of America's success as a Nation. America's technological edge has permitted the American people to have the highest standard of living in the world and permitted our country to sail safely through troubled waters, the troubled waters of world wars and international threats.     
   American technology has made all the difference. And it is the American patent law that has determined what technology, what level of technology development that America has had. Protecting individual rights, even of the little guy, has been the hallmark of our country. Patent rights, the right to own one's creation, are one of those rights that are written into the United States Constitution. In fact, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, George Washington and others, all our Founding Fathers were not only people that believed in freedom, but they also believed in technology and the potential of American genius. Visit Monticello and see what Thomas Jefferson did with the time after he penned the words of the Declaration of Independence and after he served as President of the United States. He went back to Monticello and he spent his time inventing things, inventing pieces of equipment and technologies that would lift the burden from the shoulders of labor. 
   And then there was Benjamin Franklin, again, a man who participated in the Declaration of Independence as well as the Constitution. He was the inventor of the bifocal. He was the inventor of the stove that kept people warm. Until then people only had fireplaces. He had many other inventions to his name. Yet he was also a man, one of our cherished Founding Fathers, who helped us create this free Nation. He believed in freedom and technology and believed that with freedom and technology we could increase the standard of living of our people, not just the elite, but of all the American people. 
   We have had the strongest protection system in terms of patents in the world; and that is why, in the history of humankind, there has never been a more innovative or creative people. It didn't just happen. It happened because in our Constitution, our Founding Fathers saw to it that the laws protecting one's intellectual creations, both technology and written communications, that those creative people would own their creations. No, it's not just the diversity of our society that has created the wondrous standard of living that we have all bragged about. This is not simply the diversity of our people and some notion that we have by coming from all over the world that has created the idea that all people should have opportunity and provided our people with opportunity. No, the innovation and progress and opportunity that we've enjoyed in America can be traced to our law, the law that protected the property rights of our people, just as we protected the political, just as we've protected the personal rights of our citizens. 
   Eli Whitney invented the cotton gin. But he also invented interchangeable parts for manufacturing. How did that  change America? How did that change the world? It uplifted us so people could have different sets of clothing that they could wear. The common person was helped by the fact of America's creative genius. Eli Whitney was a product of the American Constitution. 
   Cyrus McCormick invented the reaper. Before that people had to carry heavy pieces of equipment, scythes and reapers that were based on human strength and not strength of technology. With the invention of the reaper, people had more food, people had full stomachs. 
   Samuel Morse invented the telegraph, and from it came, of course, the telephone. And then there was Thomas Edison who invented the light bulb and so many of the other inventions. These were not just accidents. These were created because these people were able to flourish because they had constitutional protections for their rights of their invention. 
   One segment of our population, black Americans, were prolific inventors. Even at times when their rights were not being recognized, even when they faced major discrimination in our country, and at that time, even then, the issue of patent protection for our black citizens was recognized and because of that, many black Americans excelled in the area of inventions, men like Jan Matzeliger, who invented a machine that was used in shoe manufacturing. And before Matzeliger, and he was a former black slave, before he invented this shoe manufacturing machine, people in this country and all over the world usually wore one or two pairs of shoes for their entire life. And it was he that brought down dramatically, brought down the cost of shoes for the entire population. One of our product American black inventors. 
   George Washington Carver, a world respected scientist and inventor, and so many more in the black community. Why? Because in that era, when blacks were discriminated against, as I say, we actually respected the rights of ownership of black inventors and thus they excelled when their rights were protected. 
   We are proud of our history of technology, because we know, as Americans, we have, as we have always known throughout our country's history, that these inventions that we're talking about, made by Americans of every background, helped elevate the standard of living of all Americans. It created more wealth, wealth that was created with less labor and less burden on our people. It increased the standard of living of working people in this country so that not only the elite prospered, but all of the people had a full belly and clothes for their children. 
   The opportunity of all people who are part of the American brotherhood and sisterhood, the well-being of those people can be traced, not just to our diversity, which is something we celebrate, but also to the constitutional protection of our rights. And one of those rights which is so often overlooked is the right of people, the creators of new ideas, to own those ideas, whether we're talking about the written word or whether we're talking about technological advances. 
   And then of course, when we're talking about this, how can anyone forget the Wright brothers. The Wright brothers. We remember the Wright brothers. They were two guys who worked in a bicycle shop. They ended up inventing something just less than 100 years ago, or just about 100 years ago actually, just a few more years than 100 years ago, and they were told, 110 years ago that it was impossible for them to make this invention. Yet, they went ahead. The elites were telling them it was impossible. They went ahead and they spent their own money, their own time. They saved up. They had very little capital. They were the ultimate little guys, and they moved ahead and they did finally receive a patent because they changed the future of humankind, because they were the ones, of course, who took us from our feet planted on the ground to taking us off the ground and putting us on the road to the heavens. Just two ordinary Americans. 
   We Americans are proud that with our opportunity all people have a chance and all people can help pull the rest of us up into the heavens like the Wright brothers. 
   It was not only the raw muscle of every American. And so often people mistakenly think that human progress is a result of whether people work hard or not. That is not why people have higher standards of living. There are many people all over the world who work hard. They work strenuously hard. They work 15 hours a day. Their jobs are grueling. But no matter how hard they work, their society doesn't progress. Their families don't live any better. 
   No, hard work is not the only thing. Yes, hard work is part of it, but ingenuity and creativity, the intellectual part of the equation is vitally important to the success of any nation. And, yes, the legal system is 
   also a vital part of that formula that will lead to uplifting all of humankind and can be seen in the example of the United States. So, yes, Americans work hard, just as others have. But Americans had their rights protected under law. And that's what permitted the innovators and the creators and the technologists to thrive in this country and what pulled the standard of living of all of our people up. What was established was a system in our Constitution and with our laws and our patent system that would protect ingenuity and creativity. 
   We treated intellectual property, the creation of new technologies, as we treated property, as we treated personal, and as we've treated political, rights. And that is what America is all about. 
   Every person has rights. Now, we didn't always live up to that dream; and, yes, there was discrimination, terrible discrimination against black citizens and we always have to recognize that. And against Indian Americans and others. But we have tried our best, and we are moving forward trying to perfect our system. 
   But every American, every American has benefited by the fact that our technologies have been protected under constitutional law; and thus our creators, our creative population has managed to bring about a higher standard of living and opportunities for all Americans. 
   Today we face a great historical challenge. And this challenge comes at exactly a time when our country is threatened from abroad economically, as never before. We must prevail over our economic competitors and adversaries, or the American people will suffer. 
   There are people who think of themselves at war with us. We know that radical Islam thinks they're at war with us. But we also have people who think they're at war with us economically. They're at war with the well-being of the American people. They see us and the well-being of our people as their target. We must win this war, this economic competition that we are entering, this economic competition based not on hard work but on technology and creative genius; and if we do not win this war, our people will lose. Our people will lose especially if we permit the technology and creative genius of our people to be stolen by people who are our economic adversaries and to be used to outcompete our own people. If we lose this battle, our people will suffer. Future generations will see their standard of living decline, as well as the safety and strength of our country. If we do not remain technologically superior, we will find that in the future the livelihood of our people and the safety of our country will be in jeopardy. 
   Our economic adversaries, and their allies within the American business community, and let us note that, that our economic adversaries have allies in multinational corporations, many of them who are, what, part of the American business community. But these economic adversaries are engaged in a systematic attack on our well-being, and thus they have noticed one of the strongest and most important elements of America's success has been the patent protection that we have offered the American people. 
   Today, multinational corporations, some based here in the United States, run by an elite whose allegiance is to no country, these people have tremendous influence near the Nation's Capitol. You can see it when it comes to China policy. You can see it when it comes to trade policy. And, now, in their attempt to undermine patent protections, you can see that in this effort to undermine the constitutional patent protections that our people have enjoyed for over 200 years.  
   There is a corporate elite at play who don't give it a second thought to move their manufacturing operations to China. Now, here you've got Americans supposedly, American businessmen. They're moving their manufacturing to a country run by a Marxist dictatorship. This corporate elite betrays American values and betrays the American working people themselves. What? Why do they do this? 
   Well, they would rather exploit Chinese slave labor with the full cooperation of a dictatorial Chinese regime, than they would pay the market rate for the American working person and as well, which is part of the price, of course, of having a free society in which they are protected here at home. Yet, they would go to China and make a deal with the world's worst human rights abuser to set up a manufacturing unit there. And this very same elite will do that and betray the American worker in order to make a 25 percent profit rather than a 10 percent or a 5 percent profit at home, while at the same time the American working people will get their share of the benefit because they're working in that company. No, the American corporate elite that goes to China would rather do that. Many of them, by the way, are part of the electronics industry, as we know. The electronics industry has moved in a big way to China. They've even, in fact, claimed that, oh, well if we just have more interaction economically with China, that, what will happen? Well, China will evolve into a democratic society. 
   Yet, these same corporate leaders, supposedly Americans, help the Chinese Government set up a computer system that will aid them in tracking down democratic opponents of the dictatorship. We know now that the Falun Gong in China is suffering immense repression, as are other believers in God. Yet, we have a business elite that doesn't blink an eye at that and goes there and invests their technology and their capital in creating manufacturing there.     
   Well, people who will do that won't think twice about stealing a small inventor's or a little guy's invention so that they won't have to pay royalties to that American inventor. Why should they? If they are willing to deal with the tyrants and the gangsters in China and betray the American workers, why would they care about giving royalties to some inventor? And what are they doing? They are helping steal the American inventors' products without giving the royalties, and, worse, they are taking it to China to use in manufacturing facilities over there that will even put more Americans out of work here. 
   How could any American do that? Well, they aren't Americans. What they are, if you get right down to it, they are globalists. Yes, people have to understand that here we are, our country has evolved into now this new dichotomy of globalists versus patriots. 
   Well, put me on the side of the patriots. We are supposed to be watching out for the interests of the American people. We are not supposed to be watching out for the American business elite any more than we are supposed to be watching out for the American worker. They are supposed to have equal rights. And one of those rights has been the protection of intellectual property. But the business and corporate elites that want to move to China, the same ones who are behind this legislation, H.R. 1908, the electronics industry, want to steal the technology being developed by the little guy in America so they won't have to pay royalties. That is what it comes down to. And these same people who are building the factories in China, the same people who are giving technology to China, the same people now who want to take the ideas of American inventors and take them to China and elsewhere without having to pay royalties, these are the people behind 1908. 
   The justification for this attack on the patent system, guess what, it is called harmonization of our laws with the rest of the world. If you ask those people why do we have to make these fundamental changes to our patent law? Our patent law has been there for 200 years. They will tell you that we have to harmonize our law with the rest of the world and our laws are totally different. 
   We cannot permit corporate elitists who consider themselves globalists to mold our policies, especially if it means diminishing the legal protections for our American citizens, especially those inventors and creative people who are coming up with the technologies that Americans are going to need to have if our country is to be prosperous and secure in the future. 
   If the globalists are successful, 20 years from now our citizens will wonder what hit them. Pearl Harbor happened in a moment. Our people woke up to the threat and they mobilized. Today it is happening slowly, and the attack is less evident. But rights are being eroded by the changes in our law that will cause a decreasing standard of living to our people and damage our way of life, and that damage will be devastating to the American people in years ahead, and they will never know what hit them. This attack is being conducted not by bombers in Pearl Harbor and Hawaii, but it is being done by lobbyists in the Nation's capital who are out to pillage our wealth and transfer that wealth and power overseas. You see it everywhere. 
   Who is watching out for the interests of the American people? We will let the public determine that. But first we have to get the public's attention. And these moves on this patent bill have been so quiet. The vote is going to be Friday, H.R. 1908. They are going to try to slip this by. One of the steps necessary for them to transfer the wealth and to cut down this dominance that the American people have over the global economy, one of the things they have to do to achieve that goal so we are harmonized with the rest of the world is to destroy our patent system and make it like the patent system from other countries. 
   Lobbyists have been hired by well-heeled multinational corporations and by companies who no longer have any desire to pay for the use of technology that has been developed by other American citizens, little guys. They, of course, are not saying we are out to destroy the patent system. They will be aghast when they hear that I am suggesting they want to destroy the patent system. They know that is what it is, but they will act like they are aghast. 
   Now, there are lots of flaws in our patent system. We hear about a widespread problem, and there are some problems. But we know that many of the problems are just being exaggerated. For example, we hear horror stories concerning companies that are tied up for years in court and eventually have to relent to trial lawyers in terms about delays in the system. We hear about that. We hear about examiners who are overworked, which is true. Our patent examiners are heavily overworked. They aren't getting the training they need, and they are not getting the pay they deserve. So we have got some problems in our patent system that we need to take care of. But that has nothing to do with H.R. 1908. 
   In reality, of course, some of these problems aren't real. Patent lawsuits are not a major problem, as people are claiming they are. Between 1993 and 2005, the number of patent lawsuits versus the number of patents granted has been steady at around 1.5 percent. In fact, in 2006 only 102 patent cases actually went to trial. So when they say we have got to do this to correct the lawsuit problem, there isn't a major lawsuit problem. 
   But there are real problems that need to be solved. Our patent examiners, as I said, are overworked and they are underpaid. They need to be trained. More money that comes from people buying patents, we need to keep that right at the patent office and train those patent examiners and give them the money they need so we can hire the top quality people. 
   Unfortunately, the legislation making its way through the system does not correct the problems. The problems are being used as an excuse, but the proposed changes that we are talking about here are not dealing with the problems. So there must be some other goal of this legislation. 
   So let's understand we need patent legislation that speeds up the patent process, provides training and compensation for the patent examiners, and helps us protect our inventors against theft. Yes, we need to help our inventors protect themselves against foreign threat and, yes, even domestic  threat. And we need to put some work into patent reform which will protect our inventors. Well, the bill that we are talking about has nothing to do with that. A bill that handled those goals would be justified and welcomed. 
   Unfortunately, what we are witnessing is a replay of the illegal immigration strategy. The American people are crying out for protection against a virtual invasion of illegal immigrants into our country. The special interests who benefited by this flood of illegals tried to push an immigration bill through the Congress that would have made the situation worse. That's right. They had a bill in the name of illegal immigration reform that would have made it worse. To confuse the public, they kept calling it a ``comprehensive'' bill as if it was designed to fix the problem. Instead, it was designed for one thing and one thing only. The comprehensive bill for illegal immigration was designed to give amnesty to all those illegals who came here illegally, which would have attracted, had we given them that amnesty, tens of millions of more illegals into our country. So it would have made it worse. But with a straight face, those who were advocating illegal immigration reform kept calling it a ``comprehensive'' plan even though they knew that implied they were reforming the system to make it better when, in fact, they were going the opposite direction of what the vast majority of people knew was the problem. And the problem was what? A huge influx of illegal immigrants into our country, and giving amnesty would have made it worse. 
   Well, the same strategy is seemingly being used by those who are behind the effort to destroy the American patent system. So you will never hear them say they want to destroy the American patent system the same way that the advocates of comprehensive immigration would never admit what they were doing was amnesty. No, they are out to destroy the patent system as it has worked since the founding of our country. Instead of arguing their case, they are simply calling it a ``comprehensive'' bill. Does that sound familiar? A ``comprehensive patent bill,'' that makes it sound like you are going to make it better. No, you are out to destroy the patent system. A ``comprehensive immigration bill,'' that sounds like you want to end this immigration influx into our country. No, it is going to make it worse. Well, that is why the American people are a little bit confused. 
   Who is watching out for the American people? The American people have got to pay attention to this. 
   This bill, H.R. 1809, is similar to the one that we barely beat back 10 years ago. I called that the ``Steal American Technologies Act,'' and that was back 10 years ago. And, believe me, we were up against the most powerful corporations. We were just a ragtag group of people. Marcy Kaptur on that side of the aisle and Steny Hoyer helped us out as well, Don Manzullo and myself and just a couple others. We fought these special interests, and no one thought we had a chance. But we won. And we won because the American people got wind of what was happening, and we won. We beat it back, and that was in 1997. But here we go again with a bill that looks almost exactly like that bill in so many ways. So I will just call H.R. 1809 the ``Steal American Technologies Act, Part Two.'' 
   First and foremost, we have to, of course, look at what does H.R. 1908 do? First and foremost, it is designed to weaken the patent protection of the American inventor. So let's just note that right off. The purpose of the bill is to weaken the patent protection, the constitutional rights that the American inventor has had since the founding of our country. 
   I support real reform, as do the others who oppose this bill, but the proposed changes in H.R. 1908 will cause the collapse of the American patent system, the system that has sustained America for 200 years, and that is the real purpose behind this bill. Make no mistake about it. 
   For the Record I would submit a list of those major people and organizations who are opposed to the bill, Mr. Speaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (FEDERAL RAILROAD SAFETY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chairman, the amendment I am offering on behalf of myself and my colleague from California (Ms. Richardson) provides authorization for the rails of the next generation. As this Congress looks at ways to curb pollution, new technologies such as electric conveyor systems are key in reducing our impact on the environment, while getting the job done more efficiently, thus promoting the economic prosperity and, of course, the well-being of the American people. 
   Currently, logjams occur as offloaded freight is bottlenecked at our ports waiting for trucks to take containers to interior rail and trucking hubs. Electric conveyor systems, on a set rail, can streamline this process, reducing costs to the American consumer as well as eliminating pollution that would otherwise come from these container hauling trucks. 
   It is also an issue of safety. American ports are found in coastal metropolitan areas. As the Minnesota bridge disaster reminds us, it is fitting that we look at the safety of our current infrastructure. But we should also look towards the future and the systems that will be in place in the years ahead. Electric conveyor systems have already proven to be extremely safe and efficient, but we would be remiss if we do not offer these systems the same funds for safety that we offer our current rail lines, and that is what this amendment seeks to accomplish. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.  
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (FEDERAL RAILROAD SAFETY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. I would yield myself 1 minute and I would just suggest that that is the kind of opposition that I like. I thank you very much. 
   The vision Mr. Oberstar has just laid out is exactly what we are trying to do. Mr. Oberstar, of course, is responsible for today, but he is also, by working together with us, we are trying to make sure that we are building a better tomorrow based on the technology of tomorrow that will overcome some of the problems of today. 
   And let us note for the record, this is probably the first legislative step toward the direction of fulfilling the vision that Mr. Oberstar just outlined for us of what the potential of this is. So if they go back in history and 5, 10 years from now we have an incredible working system that takes tens of thousands of trucks off the road and it helps our environment, we can look back to this vote and this floor discussion as the first step. 
   I appreciate that very much and look forward to working with you. I think this is the perfect bipartisan effort where all of us can come together of any project that I know of. 
   I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Shuster). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (FEDERAL RAILROAD SAFETY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. I yield myself the balance of my time. 
   Again, I would like to thank Chairman Oberstar for his support and partnership in this. I would hope that we start with a demonstration at the Port of Los Angeles/Long Beach, whereas it would take tens of thousands of trucks off the road just there, but something that would be a model for the rest of the country. 
   And let me also suggest that, as we have discussed, this is a project that could well pay for itself and be done with having people who are using the system pay back what the cost of the system is. So it is something that we can work on and mold together in a way that will really serve the environment and make our country more efficient. 
   Let me note that Juanita Millender-McDonald, who was the Representative from Long Beach as well as myself, was a great supporter of this concept. We talked many times on this. Maybe we will name it after her in her memory. We miss her today. But Ms. Richardson who took her place is very supportive of this as well, so we are working on this as a team. I deeply appreciate this positive spirit on both sides of the aisle, and ask my colleagues to support this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (FIXING THE ENERGY PROBLEM -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Speaker, for 30 years, we have seen the development of new major gas and oil developments in our country thwarted. For 30 years, we have had no new nuclear reactors built in this country to provide us electricity. For 30 years, we have seen no new refineries being built in this country. For 30 years, we haven't even seen a hydroelectric dam being built in this country. And people ask why are we paying $4 and $5 a gallon for gasoline now? 
   Well, what has happened, of course, is we have put ourselves in a position where the discretionary income of our people is being robbed from them because we were acting irresponsibly for these last 30 years. Congressmen, elected representatives of the people, did not stand up to a radical element which opposed all of these energy alternatives for America and has left us vulnerable to our enemies overseas. 
   It is about time we speak up, we stand up, and we do what is right so we can fix this problem that was caused by inaction for the last 30 years. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVISTS DEBT RELIEF ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this legislation. 
   Madam Speaker, today marks the culmination of work that should have been finished long ago. On April 14, 2005, the House considered S. 256, the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005, which was a much needed and responsible reform. Then in the minority, my colleague, Ms. Schakowsky, introduced a motion to recommit so that the bill would allow a targeted exemption from the bankruptcy means test for those National Guard and Reservists who had been called up after 9/11. 
   At the time of the floor debate, I was told by the Republican floor manager that the Schakowsky motion was redundant, that there was already such protection for our National Guard and Reservists under the Service Member's Civil Relief Act. Because of this, I voted against the motion and it failed on a party line vote, 220 yeas to 229 nays. 
   I soon found out that I and other Republican Members had been misinformed, apparently to prevent the then-minority from having any legislative success. 
   Yes, disabled veterans are exempt from the new bankruptcy means test, but not activated reservists and guardsmen, the men and women torn from their jobs and families, sent overseas to protect us were not to be given consideration under the Republican bankruptcy law unless they were disabled. Ms. Schakowsky's motion sought to correct that. In order to prevent even one success by the other party, the leaders of my party threw aside considering the well-being of our returning heroes. 
   A returning reservist or guardsman, who possibly left a lucrative job to answer the call of duty, gets the same tougher means test as everybody else. If they fail, they are presumed to be abusing the system as specified in chapter 7 of the bankruptcy law. Yes, they can then rebut the presumption of abuse by demonstrating a special circumstance before the court. They can beg. They can jump through hoops, they can hire lawyers, and then it is at the discretion of the court to grant these homecoming heroes special circumstances and allow them a chapter 7 filing. This should have been in the bill in the first place, as well as Ms. Schakowsky's motion should have been accepted by the majority. It is a shame that it wasn't. 
   The Schakowsky motion would not have killed the bill, as some Members have argued since. In fact, because the motion asked the Judiciary Committee to report the bill forthwith, we could have considered the bill on that very same day. And even if that were not the case, as now we hear from my side so often as we point out a motion requiring a committee to report the bill promptly could still be brought up the next legislative day. 
   No, this motion failed so long ago because of the worst type of partisanship. It failed because Republicans did not want to admit that the Democrats could better their bill. 
   When I found that there was no adequate protection for our returning reservists and guardsmen, I pledged to work with my colleague, Ms. Schakowsky, and make it right. 
   Subsequently, I introduced legislation to amend the bankruptcy law. Unfortunately, the Republican leadership refused to bring my bill up to the floor for a vote and it took a change in the majority for this pro-reservist, pro-National Guard bill to be brought to the House floor today. 
   This measure isn't costing any new Federal dollars. There is no new massive appropriation. All it is is a consideration for these people who have risked their lives for us and are coming home. But my party couldn't get itself to provide consideration for our homecoming heroes even though there wasn't any major cost involved. 
   In the meantime, party control of the House changed, and Ms. Schakowsky and I have been working diligently to get this legislation to the floor and get it passed into law. We are now considering this bill under suspension which means it is pretty well recognized that this has widespread support. It should have been voted on by the majority or at least accepted a long time ago. 
   I encourage my colleagues who voted ``no'' on the motion to recommit 3 years ago because they were misled to vote in favor of this legislation. This bill is not a wedge to reopen the bankruptcy law. Rather, it is a narrow, targeted change modeled after existing exemptions for disabled veterans, America's heroes in neighborhoods throughout our country, who have been called up for deployments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVISTS DEBT RELIEF ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. This bill will ensure that America's heroes throughout our country, who have often been called up for deployments that are for far longer than they were initially thought, will not pay a very high personal cost for their absence and their willingness to step forward. 
   As my colleague, Ms. Schakowsky, put it, these servicemembers have put their lives and livelihood on the line for us, and we owe them a great debt. This is one way that we can show our deep appreciation for the service of these people, as we should have done originally. Now it is time for us to repay that debt in a very bipartisan way. I thank very much my chairman and ranking member. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (ADVANCED FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - February 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word. 
   I rise to support this amendment. However, I will admit that it is rather more symbolic than substantive. And earlier this morning, Speaker Pelosi spoke before the Science Committee, as we have been reminded here during this debate. And during that testimony she declared her commitment to combat global warming. And that is a high priority. 
   Well, it is not then irrelevant for Members of Congress to call into question the seriousness of such public proclamations when personal choices are so extravagantly contradictory to those proclamations. 
   I am sorry. Speaker Pelosi, by commandeering a huge government plane for her personal transport to California, this is totally contradictory to the alarm bells that we heard her ringing in the Science Committee just a few hours ago. 
   And just for one, let me note that I certainly appreciate that Speaker Pelosi came to speak to us. And I certainly respect BART GORDON and the job that he did in putting together a very fine panel of witnesses for us. But I am personally a skeptic about global warming. 
   And let me just note that what we have here, after listening to the witnesses today, is the clear evidence that global warming and cooling have taken place in cycles throughout the history of the world. Right now, we are being told that this particular cycle is caused by human beings and how dangerous that is. 
   Well, let me note that even the witnesses today, the very witness that was showing how we can prove the Earth is warming on the chart, started his chart in 1850, which happened to be, by his own admission, the very end of a cooling period that had been going on for 500 years. So you start at the very low point and then you go to today and claim, oh, it is getting warmer. So what? You started at a low point. 
   Now, there is consensus that there is some warming going on, 1 degree over the last 30 years, supposedly. In reality, it is 1 degree over 100 years. And, yes, this is happening, but is it caused by human action? Even after hearing the witnesses today, I can't tell you that I don't believe, I still do not believe this is caused by human activity. 
   Now, why is this so important that we discuss this? Why is it important that we reject this alarmism? Because we are all now committed to an energy-independent America, and we are going to have to focus our energies and resources on developing new alternative sources of energy and technology that will make us independent of foreign oil. 
   And if we are alarmed by global warming and we are stampeded into focusing our efforts on something that is going to change a climate trend, instead of, for example, focusing on energy that will help clean the air at the same time, while making us independent, we are going to be making some bad decisions. 
   And who will be impacted by those decisions if we are stampeded by all of this alarmism about global warming? The people who will be better off are the researchers who have been getting grants by the billions of dollars over these years in order to claim that there is global warming. And I might add, there is plenty of evidence that researchers who are opposed to the global  warming theory have been cut off from research grants. 
   But who will be worse off? My children will be worse off. Your children and grandchildren will be worse off because we have not developed the technology aimed at cleaning the air and making us energy independent. Rather, we will have been stampeded into spending more money on useless research and money aimed at changing the climate trend of the planet, rather than on the health of the people of this planet. It makes no sense whatsoever. 
   If we are committed to energy independence, let's be serious about it. Conservation is part of the answer. And if Speaker Pelosi is serious, she should be serving as an example and not be doing things like commandeering a huge aircraft, which is enormously wasteful, to take her all the way to California. 
   And although this is symbolic, I think there is some substance here that does deserve to be commented on, so I am supporting this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (STEAL AMERICAN TECHNOLOGIES ACT, THE SEQUEL -- (House of Representatives - July 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, today I would like to discuss with the Members here assembled and those listening on C-SPAN and those who will be reading the Congressional Record an issue that may well be determined here on the House floor in the next few weeks, at least perhaps in this session if not in the next few weeks. It is an issue that will fundamentally alter and I would say dramatically diminish a constitutionally protected right and will have tremendous long-term consequences for our country; yet, very few people in this country know that this issue is coming before us. Very few of our Members even understand that an issue of this significance will be discussed here. But there will be a fight, and there is an issue of great importance that will emerge here in the not-too-distant future. 
   The fight over this issue of course is not a new fight. In the late 1990s, similar attempts were made at what will be attempted in the next few weeks. Those attempts were made, but they were defeated. They were defeated after the public was mobilized, and powerful forces that were at play here in our Nation's Capital were defeated. Without the public mobilizing against this particular change that was being proposed by the corporate elite here in Washington, our system of technology in the United States would have been dramatically impacted and the well-being of our people in the long run would be condemned. 
   The battle, which took place in the 1990s, lasted for years. Corporate pressure was brought to bear, and every attempt was made to accomplish what I consider to be an insidious goal through stealth, and it was being done in a way that would keep as low a profile as possible. We see that happening today. Very few of our Members know that there is an issue of this magnitude coming before us, but special interests are already at play. We see people, we see organizations being well financed to come here and talk to us about technology issues, not realizing the real purpose of these organizations and the financing behind them is to push forward a change that will dramatically impact America's ability to be the technological leader of the world and dramatically implicate our innovators and our inventors. 
   The American people, however, back in the 1990s, once alerted and made aware of the significance to our country of the changes that were being proposed, stood up and fought the good fight and beat back this attempt for fundamental change in a stealth manner. They in fact beat back the onslaught, but just barely. However, once the American people were made aware of the significance of what was going on, they won the day. 
   Does it sound familiar? Yes, it sounds tremendously familiar if you look at what just happened with the immigration bill in which the elites of this country were trying to foist upon us a  bill which would legalize the status of tens of millions of illegals that are in this country, only bringing tens of millions of more illegals into this country, an attempt to foist this off on the American people, to cover it up with clouds of smoke talking about a comprehensive bill whose only purpose was really to legalize the status, to give amnesty to those who are already here. And once the American people understood that, that bill was defeated. 
   We need that same type of mobilization if America's future generations are to be protected from the greatest theft of American technology and innovation that could ever be imagined by our people today. 
   Today, we face this onslaught that is very similar to that of the 1990s because the same goals are in mind by the same interest groups who would have fundamentally changed the American patent system, but they were defeated. Luckily, they were defeated because the American people, as I say, were mobilized. What we have here, as we had in the case of the fight on immigration, was that the issue itself, whether it is immigration or the fundamental changes being proposed to our patent system, are part of a greater threat. That threat which would manifest itself every now and then, perhaps four or five times a year we see this emerging, is part of a strategic maneuver by those who we would call globalists. 
   The fundamental threat is the globalism, which is being advocated and sometimes touted on television, et cetera, is something that, if we don't watch out, will be experienced at the expense of the American people. Globalism as it is being foisted on us as the immigration bill was will come at the expense of the American people of their freedom and their prosperity and, yes, even the safety of our country. 
   The battle at hand is the globalist strategy to deprive us, the American people, of the greatest source of our Nation's progress and strength: the creative genius of our own people; the innovation and technological leadership that has provided us with a decent standard of living for ordinary people and more freedom than any other country on the planet. 
   The globalists are at it again, seeking to change our laws in a way which would facilitate their power, would facilitate in this case the theft and transfer of American technology, the theft of the genius of our inventors, which has been one of our country's greatest assets. 
   People say, how could this possibly be? Well, how could it be that this Congress almost passed, there was a steam engine and a steamroller coming down the path at us that almost passed an immigration bill that would have brought millions, tens of millions, perhaps as many as 50 million more illegals into our country because we would have been legalizing the status of 10 million to 20 million illegals who are here already. How did that almost happen? Well, it almost happened because there are forces at work in a democratic society. 
   In this case, the globalist forces, the same ones who were at play on immigration, the ones who thought it would be better for everybody if we just had an open border with Mexico, because that is what really was the goal by the immigration fight. The whole fight was all about big businessmen who thought it would be really good to have an open border so we could keep down wages, and of course the liberal left of the Democratic Party who felt that as many immigrants that we have swarming into our country gives them a political base. Well, those same people who are pushing that are now working to push through wholesale changes in our patent laws, changes that will undermine our independent inventors and allow our competitors to steal our technology, American technology, and seriously weaken our country and its competitiveness. 
   The legislative vehicle for this legalized larceny is H.R. 1908, which I call the Steal American Technologies Act. In this case, because it reflects a very similar bill that was attempted a few years ago, we will call it the Steal American Technologies Act, the Sequel.     
   It is a dramatic altering of our patent laws, and our patent laws that they're trying to change have been in place since our country's founding. Patent law, of course, is an issue that is somewhat obscure, and it is an issue that is very difficult to understand in that it is related directly to new and unknown technologies and science, and deals with complicated parts of American law. 
   The globalists have hoped that this issue will seem so perplexing that it will be ignored by much of the public and perhaps not even understood by most Members of Congress. Yet, how Congress resolves this issue, once it's brought before us in legislative form, will determine the future well-being of our people and the security of our country. It is just that important. Just as the immigration bill was important and important for the American people to get involved, this issue is of equal importance to that in terms of our future. 
   This Congress will determine the fundamental patent law, the legal protections, the organizational structure in which we deal with technology commercialization. All of this will determine what our country is going to be like in the next 50 years and who and what kind of power we will have as a people on this planet. We will be making a determination of what the patent law of the United States of America will be for this generation and future generations of Americans. 
   Of course, in the past, our Founding Fathers were in the same position; they made the right decision. They put in place patent law, which now we are seeing the elite of this society and the globalists throughout the world trying to bring down this fundamental law that was put into place by our Founding Fathers. 
   Patent law is part of the American legal system and, as I said, it is something that perhaps has been taken for granted by the American people. Who pays attention to patent law? As I say, it's complicated, hard to understand. 
   However, every time we turn around, we can see that it is America's technological edge that has permitted the American people to have the highest standard of living in the world and permitted our country to sail safely through the troubled waters of economic crisis, of world wars and of international threats. It is American technology and our genius that has made all the difference when it counted. And it is the American patent law that has determined what technology and at what level of technological development that America has had. 
   This is not an obscure issue. This is an issue that will change our way of life. This is an issue of vital importance to every American, and it will determine the future standard of living of our people and the safety of our country. 
   We Americans came to this continent, by and large, as poor immigrants, millions of us. We faced the most undeveloped land imaginable. There was no land anywhere in the world at that time that was more undeveloped than the United States of America. When our Founding Fathers and mothers came here, they suffered deprivation. They were not safe. They were not prosperous. They died of hunger, and they worked very hard. And yes, we had space. Yes, we had lots of space and resources. But it wasn't the space and the resources that changed this group of huddled masses that came here, these poor souls that came here over those hundreds of years. It wasn't the resources and the space that changed their way of life and made them a prosperous and free people. 
   The secret of America's success is found not in our wide expansions or the deposit of minerals. Instead, the secret to our success can be found in the fact that our people had the freedom that our Founding Fathers fought for, and they had guaranteed rights, and also, of course, we, as a people, had a dream. We had a dream of a country where average people, yes, even people who are below average, can come and can prosper and can live at peace, a country made up of people from every part of the world, every race, every religion, every creed, every ethnic background, who could come and could live together in dignity and with liberty, and, of course, they could live free from fear. They could live with the understanding that everyone's child would have an opportunity to improve him or herself, to enjoy a rising standard of living that  was based on their hard work and, yes, as Martin Luther King said, on the content of their character. 
   We believed, as a people, in rights and believed these rights to be given by God and that the purpose of government was protecting these rights. 
   Well, most people, when they think of that, think of religion and think of speech and the right of assembly. But patent rights are a right of property. It's a right that is written into our Constitution. The United States of America is one of the only countries of the world to have written into its founding document, the Constitution, a section dealing with patent rights. 
   Let us note that in the body of the Constitution, before the Bill of Rights, the word right is only used once, and that is the right of an author or an inventor to own and control the product of his labor, his or her labor, for a given period of time. 
   In fact, Benjamin Franklin was a great inventor as well as one of our Founding Fathers and one of the great champions of liberty in the history of humankind, as was Thomas Jefferson, as was Washington. 
   It was George Washington who requested of the First Continental Congress that they pass, as one of their first laws, a patent law, the Patent Act of 1790, which became the foundation of America's technological progress from that point till today. 
   Others of our Founding Fathers were people who believed in freedom, but they also believed in technology. Visit Monticello and see what Thomas Jefferson did with his time after he penned the words of the Declaration of Independence and had served as President of United States. He went back to Monticello and spent his time inventing things, things that would lift the burden from the shoulders of labor. Yes, he, in fact, signed his name as the first Patent Commissioner of the United States, which was invested in the Office of the Secretary of State at that time. 
   Benjamin Franklin, the inventor of the bifocal and the stove, the potbellied stove, which made a huge difference in the well-being of people for hundreds of years thereafter. 
   These Founding Fathers were our Founding Fathers, and they knew that with freedom and technology, we could increase the standard of living of our people, all our people, not just the elite, but the average person could come here and live with a modicum of dignity and decency and prosperity in their lives. 
   Our people were not just the Americans who were here, our Founding Fathers knew that, but were the tens of millions of Americans who would come here in the future on such a grand scale. And we would know, and they knew that if the people were going to come here and occupy this land from one part of the continent to the other, that wealth would have been to be produced on a grand scale as well. It couldn't be relied on just on brute muscle strength and the strength of animals. 
   Instead, our Founding Fathers knew that machines and technology would produce the wealth necessary to have a free and prosperous society. That's why they built into 
   our Constitution the strongest patent protection of anywhere in the world, and that is why, in the history of mankind there has never been a more innovative nor creative people. 
   It's not just the diversity of our people that's given us this creativity. It's been the innovation and progress that was inherent in the way we structured our law, our patent law. 
   Recently I sat next to a Japanese minister over lunch, and he was telling me how Americans are always the ones who are coming up with the creative new ideas; what we do is just improve on those ideas, but we're trying to make our people more creative. And he was discussing different ways. And I said, it's real easy. All you have to do is make sure you change your patent system. You have a fundamentally different patent system than we do. He was shocked. He'd never thought of that. 
   And, in fact, the patent system in Japan was designed to help corporate interests utilize technology rather than protect the rights of the creators of new ideas. And of course, if the creators are being bullied and robbed, they're not going to come up with much. And guess what? In Japan, they don't, because your Shogun system of elitists in Japan steal the technology from their own creative people, and thus, their people don't create. 
   Americans have known that they have rights to own their own creations since the founding of our country. That has become part of our character, although most people don't relate it back to the law. Most people don't relate the character of our people back to the law when it comes to freedom of speech and those things in our Constitution as well, freedom of religion. But they are so important to the development of our national character. We would have had a different national character without those rights and without the rights that were granted to our inventors and our technologists in our Constitution by our Founding Fathers. 
   Everyone has heard about Thomas Fulton's steamboat. Well, let me note that Thomas Fulton didn't invent the steam engine. He invented the steamboat. Because in Europe and elsewhere, they didn't see technology necessarily as something that was very good. The average person thought technology was going to replace me as a job, and the steam engine was not permitted to be used there. 
   In the United States, the American people always understood machines will help produce more wealth. It will magnify the production and the by-product of our labor, and it's good for people to have a society which has more wealth rather than less. 
   So Mr. Fulton put that steam engine on a boat and put it to work because we knew, and the American people as well as our leaders knew, that machines, good technology will help all the people of a country. 
   Cyrus McCormick invented a reaper that helped produce more food so people were well fed in this country, as compared to other societies which have had so many famines. 
   Samuel Morse invented the telegraph, which led to the telephone, et cetera. Thomas Edison, the light bulb, and so many other inventions. 
   Black Americans, here's something that is never recognized too much out of the Black community, but Black Americans have been prolific inventors. Even at times of mass discrimination against our Black fellow citizens, the patent office and rights, property rights for inventions were respected, and the Black community succeeded in, perhaps more than any other community compared to their numbers, in offering inventions and innovations. 
   Jan Metzlinger was a Black, former Black slave who invented a machine that was used in the manufacturing of shoes which dramatically changed the shoe industry. And before then, Americans had one pair of shoes. They could expect to have one pair of shoes in their life. And it was a Black man who invented the machine that made the production of shoes so effective and efficient that people could have different shoes. And when they wore out, they didn't have to wear shoes that had holes in the bottom of them. 
   George Washington Carver, one of the great renowned American inventors, respected by scientists, respected throughout the world; there are so many examples of Black inventors, because their rights in that area, that one little area of the Constitution, while they were being suppressed in other areas, their rights for ownership of patents was respected and thus, in that area, they prevailed and they flowered. And they invented things that did wonderful things for our country and the rest of our population. It's too bad it took so long for us to catch up in the other areas of protecting the rights of Black Americans. But they can be proud that, even during the time when they were under suppression, that they were able to succeed in developing new creative ideas that helped this entire country. 
   We are proud of our history of technologies, because we know, as Americans, as we have always known, that these inventions, no matter who invented them, would produce more wealth with less labor and thus increase the standard of living of all of our people and the opportunity of all of our people. And thus, it built a society which we have become very proud of and that we should be proud of. 
   But I suggest today that if we change those fundamental laws, which this bill is attempting to do, we will obliterate, in one or two generations, the great  progress that we've experienced in the standing of the American people among the nations. 
   Yes, we look back at the Wright brothers; we remember them. The Wright brothers, who were they? They were men with little education, probably like Mr. Metzlinger. I just mentioned he worked in a shoe factory. These men worked in a bicycle shop, and they ended up inventing something about 100 years ago that they were told was absolutely impossible by the experts.     
   Yet they went ahead and they received a patent. They received a patent on how to shape the wing of their airplane, and they changed the future of mankind forever as we uplifted humankind off the ground and put us on a road to the heavens. Two Americans, ordinary Americans, not rich people, not educated greatly. Two people who ran a bicycle shop. These are the people we are proud of because we understand that is what America is all about that these people have their rights and freedom. 
   Innovation, a great creative genius, is the miracle that produced our wealth. Not just the muscle. It was the genius of our people. It was the tenacity of the Wright brothers and Cyrus McCormick and others and their genius that produced the wealth and produced these technologies that have changed all humankind and all Americans. And this creativity that we are talking about was protected by law. 
   We have treated the intellectual property rights in this country and the creation of new technology just as we have treated other rights. They are property rights and they are respected. They have been part of our country, part of our law, that individuals have a right, as determined by our Constitution and as outlined in our first fundamental laws since 1790, that these property protections would be afforded to American inventors. And that is what America is all about. Every one of us has that kind of opportunity. 
   Does anyone think that in World War II and in the Cold War that it wasn't our technological genius as well as our commitment to freedom that carried the day? We didn't fight the Germans and the Japanese man to man, just as in the Cold War, we didn't fight the Russians and the Chinese man to man in great battles. No. What happened is, if we would have tried to match them in pure muscle power, we would have lost. Instead, our aerospace workers, our scientists, our inventors, our computer specialists, our missile technicians, our rocket builders, and, yes, those scientists who came up with and are currently about to deploy a strategic missile defense system for the United States, all of these technological workers helped make the difference in those challenges to our national security, whether against the Nazis and the Japanese militarists or the communists. And, yes, perhaps even against radical Islam, should some regime there or in North Korea send a missile in our direction, our technologists may well be providing us a defense. Yes, we won the Cold War without having to suffer a massive conflagration because we relied not only just on the courage and the faith and the freedom but also in the superior technology that was flowing from our people. And that was because our American inventors were matched by no one in the world. 
   Today it is my sad duty to inform my fellow colleagues and the American people that we face a great historic threat. This threat comes at exactly the time when our country faces economic challenges from abroad as never before. We must prevail over our economic competitors because they are at war with the well-being of the American people. We must win or our country's people will lose. If we lose this battle, our people will suffer, their standard of living will suffer, their freedom will suffer. Future generations will see their standard of living decline as well as the safety and strength of our country. If we do not remain the technologically superior power on this planet, we will face new challenges and we will be defeated and our people will no longer have the prosperity and the rights that were the dream of those founders who came here 300 years ago to inaugurate this wonderful country, the United States of America. 
   Our adversaries have identified technology as our strong point. They see it right away. Americans are innovative, just like that Japanese minister that I was talking about. Americans are innovative. We have the new ideas, the new concepts. We have the ways of coming up with a different twist. We have the can-do spirit. There is nothing that can't be done with freedom and technology. 
   Well, they have identified this as our strong point. But it is also a weak point in that many Americans have no idea what legal structure was established that has protected this part of the American character, this legal establishment, this legal foundation that has permitted us to have creative people and build this type of genius within our society. 
   What I have been talking about is the fundamental patent law of our country. Our economic adversaries and their allies are engaged in a systematic attack on the patent rights of the American people. These adversaries, of course, among them are the leaders of multinational corporations, some of whom are based right here in the United States. These multinational corporations are run by an elite whose allegiance is to no country. Most significantly, we do not know if their allegiance is to the United States of America. 
   These are the same people who will take the product of research and development grants provided by the taxpayers of the United States and build factories in China based on those technologies. These are the same people who would eliminate jobs in the United States and create factories in China in order to make a 15- to 20-percent profit as compared to a 5- or 10-percent profit here. But over here they would be dealing with American citizens; over there they are dealing with slaves. The corporate elite that does this is behind and is pushing for the changes in our patent law that I am talking about today. And these multinationals and the elite that run them are not watching out for us. 
   If the globalists are successful, 20 years from now our citizens will wonder what hit them. Pearl Harbor happened in one moment. Our people woke up to the threat and mobilized. Today it is happening slowly. The attack is less evident, but our rights are being robbed and eroded, and changes in our law are being made that will decrease our standard of living and damage our way of life and will be devastating to the American people, and they will not know what hit them. This attack is being conducted not by the bombers on Pearl Harbor, but the bombs that are being planted are being planted by lobbyists in our nation's capital who are working for multinational corporations, who believe, perhaps, that we can make everything better with a globalist strategy. But they are willing to pillage the wealth of our country and transfer that wealth and transfer power overseas in order to succeed in building a new global strategy, a new global concept. 
   One of the steps necessary for this great global vision to succeed is the destruction of the American patent system. As I say, lobbyists have been hired by well-heeled multinational corporations and by companies who no longer have any desire to pay for the use of technology that has been developed by American citizens. They, of course, are not saying, well, we are going to destroy the patent system. Nobody is just coming up and saying we want to destroy the patent system. We want to steal all of America's technology. They are not saying that because we might be a little upset because we would notice that they are the same people who are setting up factories in China using slave labor and putting our people out of work. They wouldn't be that upfront. 
   Instead, they are suggesting our patent system is broken and needs to be fixed. We have heard it before: The immigration system is broken. We need a comprehensive bill. And in the end, the comprehensive bill that was coming over here that was being voted on would have made the situation a lot worse. This is exactly what this elite is trying to do right now in terms of American technology and the patent system. They are using a system that needs to be fixed, the patent system, which has some flaws, organizational flaws, and they are saying we are going  to fix it; yet the fixes they are proposing would destroy the system as we know it. 
   No. Instead, we need to correct the flaws in the system. And, again, if it sounds like a replay of immigration, it is exactly right. It is the same strategy. But they failed then, and if the American people are mobilized, they will fail again. 
   We hear about widespread problems in terms of the Patent Office. This is what we are going to hear from the elite, from the people involved in this globalist attempt to destroy America's patent protections. We are going to hear about patent lawsuits, about horror stories concerning companies that are tied up for years in court and then eventually have to give up and relent to trial laws because there are so many delays inside the patent system. And we are going to hear about examiners who are overworked, underpaid, and without proper education and training. 
   Well, in reality the patent lawsuits are no more of a major problem than they ever were. Between 1993 and the year 2005, the number of patent lawsuits versus the number of patents granted has held steady at about 1.5 percent. In fact, in 2006 there were only 102 patent cases that actually went to trial. 
   But there are some very real changes that are needed and problems that need to be solved in the patent system. Unfortunately, the legislation making its way through the system does not correct these problems. The problems are being used as an excuse to act, but the proposed changes are aimed at other than the more significant goals. 
   So let's understand that we need patent legislation. We need patent legislation that speeds up the patent process and provides training and compensation for patent examiners and helps us protect our inventors against foreign theft. We need to make sure that the people who are the inventors of our country can use this system. But the bill that is being presented to us and these maladies that are being used to justify this new bill do not correlate. 
   The fact is the bill will not solve the problems but will obliterate the fundamental rights that have been granted since our country's founding. Just like the immigration bill, as I say. The problems created by our current policymakers, of course, they could have corrected any of these problems with the patent system over the past 10 years, but those problems that are still around are being used as an excuse to destroy the system within a cloud of smoke. 
   Well, the people have been trying to do this, as I said, for over a decade, the power elite in this country, and they were thwarted. Now they are back. We can all understand what this is all about when we just remember the word ``comprehensive.'' That was being used as a cover not to reform and strengthen our control and management of immigration but to destroy our ability to stop the massive flow of illegal immigration into our country. That is the same thing that is happening in terms of patent legislation. 
   There are some problems with the way our patent system is operating. It can be much more effective. But instead of correcting those problems, it is being used as a smokescreen. H.R. 1908 is designed not to correct the problems but to destroy the patent protections our people have enjoyed. 
   So, first, H.R. 1908 creates a post-grant review process. What does it do? The first thing is a post-grant review process, which means that after someone is granted their patent, people can still come back and challenge them after the patent has been granted. For the little guy, this is a disaster because the little guy doesn't have the money for all the lawyers. Once the patent is granted, that should be a situation when the patent is granted. Instead, H.R. 1908 attempts to create an endless process of challenges to a small inventor. 
   Second, H.R. 1908 changes our patent system to award patents based on first-to-file rather than first-to-invent. This is a little hard to understand, but since our country's founding, if an inventor could prove that he has invented something, he would then be protected. His rights to own that would be protected. In other countries, if big corporations immediately just file patent after patent after patent every time they come to a small step forward, they can protect themselves, but the small inventor will never be able to do so. 
   Third, the most egregious of all the items in H.R. 1908, and people should pay attention to what I am saying here because this is fundamentally different than every patent system in the world, up until now the American citizen, if he has filed for a patent, until that patent is granted, the patent is kept totally secret.     
   In fact, patent examiners can go to jail for felonies if they disclose that information. And then, when the patent is granted, no matter how long it takes, even if it takes 10 years to do so, the inventor gets to have 17 years of patent protection where he owns that technology. That has been our tradition. What do we want to do? This bill, H.R. 1908, the ``Steal American Technologies Act,'' the sequel, what does it do? It wants to make sure that anybody who files for a patent, any inventor, if he has not been granted his patent within 18 months, perhaps because of bureaucratic snafus or whatever, that patent is going to be put on the Internet, that patent is going to published for every thief in the world, every Chinese manufacturer, every Japanese manufacturer, every Korean manufacturer, anybody in the world who wants to steal it will be able to have it and be in production before our inventors get their patents even granted to them. 
   So, let's take a look at these three proposals of this H.R. 1908. The proposed grant review process is a gift to the large corporations and the powerful elites, which they wish to destroy the small inventor. As I say, they are going to be able to grind the small inventor down. For the invalidation of a patent, a company, if they can show they've been economically disadvantaged by the patent, they can force a review of the Patent Office of that patent. So if somebody invents something that's going to be wonderful for a lot of people in the country but will put another business out of work because they don't need buggy whips anymore, then the buggy whip manufacturer, who now has a lot of money because over the years, under the old system, everybody needed a buggy whip, they're going to use that wealth to tie up and destroy those innovators who would bring us forward. Because now, even once the patent is issued, they can keep filing complaint after complaint, challenge after challenge. The little guys will never be able to cope with that. 
   Second of all, this legislation doesn't stop just there. As I said, it lowers the bar for providing a patent's invalidity to current standards of clear and convincing evidence. It basically lowers, for some of the standards that we have operated on, from clear and convincing evidence to the preponderance of evidence, which of course erodes the confidence an inventor has that his patent won't later be just revoked by the Patent Office. So it's changing the standards and allowing them to have future challenges. The small inventor is going to be ground down. 
   But, of course, the worst part, what's this? H.R. 1908 also, of course, does not limit the number of times that a patent can be challenged, so time after time grounds these down. So it's not just one challenge after a patent has been granted, but a continual challenge to the small inventor. 
   This proposed change from first-to-invent to first-to-file is yet another attack on the small inventor. The United States is unique in using the first-to-invent system. All the rest of the countries have first-to-file. And this has ensured that the true inventors will receive the benefit of their invention instead of a thief who happens on some information. 
   Changing it to first-to-file will create a massive problem for the small inventor. Inventors will have to rush to the Patent Office, hurriedly scrambling to file the necessary documents every time they've made one small step forward. This will cause less thorough applications. So we're going to have people who are applying, because they have to apply for so many, the applications will not be as well thought out and not as thorough. And this will add to the burden of the Patent Office, which will mean there will be even more work for the Patent Office and even more delays. 
   So this will benefit, yes, large corporations who can afford patent after  patent after patent after patent application, but for the small inventor who only has a little bit of money, he will be totally rolled over. 
   Now, the thieves in China and elsewhere are waiting for the day when we change this patent law to what this last suggestion is under H.R. 1908. Because this is very similar to the immigration bill. The only purpose of the immigration bill was to give amnesty, was to grant legal status to those people who are here legally. The only reason for the patent bill is this particular provision, and that is, American inventors have had a protection that their applications will be secret, if they file in the United States, that their patent will be secret up until that patent is granted to them, but this bill changes it. After 18 months, all patent applications will be made public. Now get into that: Under this bill, after 18 months, even if a patent hasn't been granted, everybody in the world is going to be able to know all of the secrets in the patent application. Thieves around the world will be counting down the days until America's best ideas are put on display and in great detail for everyone to examine, even though the inventor has no protection at that point. 
   How do we know that this piracy will happen? We know because Japan, which I have mentioned has a different patent system, already publishes patent applications, and it is suffering from a withering attack from China and elsewhere. The Japanese actually take their patent applications and, after 18 months, put them on the Web. Well, what happens? The Japanese patent applications on the Web, that Web site receives 17,000 hits a day from China, and 55,000 hits a day from Korea. The people viewing the Web site are not simply curious about some gizmo or gadget; they're interested in one thing: They want to steal someone else's creative ideas. 
   H.R. 1908 would give every thief in the world an opportunity to take America's technology and use it even before our people are granted a patent. Why would anybody want to do this? Well, the same people who want to do this are the same people who are building factories in China and use slave labor. I can tell you that right now. 
   This is basically coming out of the high electronics industry. You know what some of those people are doing right now? Some of those people are over there helping the Chinese Government track down religious dissidents, people who want democracy or believe in God, but want to use the Internet, our technology companies are over there helping them track these people down and throwing them in jail. And you know what they want to do here? They want to steal all the technology from every American inventor and not pay them a royalty. That's what's going on here. And of course, they're in alliance with the other global elitists from other countries. 
   This is not the type of force in our society that we should permit to make the rules on how this country functions. We would be giving, if this bill passes, our economic competitors, even our enemies, access to our Nation's technological breakthroughs and scientific achievements. H.R. 1908 does that by demanding that all patent applications be put on the Internet to view and to steal even before the patent is issued. 
   If it's hard to believe, people need to hear it again: We have an elite in the electronics industry that is so intent on taking the technologies that are being developed by our inventors and not giving them royalties, that they want to change this fundamental part of our patent law that has protected our individual inventors, protected them by saying, what you invent is yours for 17 years and that no one will know about your patent 
   application until your patent is issued; they want to change this fundamental nature of our system. 
   This provision is not only a bad idea and not only will it harm the American inventor, it will hurt the American people by putting us at risk to our enemies. Already we are seeing a flow of technology and of capital assets to China, which is a major adversary, maybe not an enemy now, but perhaps someday an enemy. Our schools are filled with graduate students from China and elsewhere, and they are learning the secrets that cost us billions of dollars of research to come up with. We are not watching out for the American people. And H.R. 1908 would, again, be a dagger in the heart of the American standard of living and our ability to secure our country. 
   What is really going on here is an effort. Of course, they will claim that we have to do this because Japan does it, and Europe does it. They want to harmonize America's laws, our patent laws, with the rest of the world. Well, why don't they try that with the rest of the Constitution? If we wanted to harmonize the freedom of speech and religion with everybody else in the world, would the American people stand for that? We have the strongest patent protection of any country in this planet, just like we have the protection for other rights. If people want to harmonize with American law, we want a globalist approach to patents or to technology and to freedoms and rights, people can harmonize with us. Let them come up to our standards. 
   If the American people were out to harmonize the law, that's one thing, but we wouldn't even dream of doing that. The American people would never go along with having our religious freedom or freedom of speech and other freedoms that we have that are guaranteed by our Constitution; we would never permit them to say, well, we have to have the same level of freedom as they have in Singapore or Vietnam or, let's say, Ukraine or Belarus. No. The fact is, the American people are proud that we have guaranteed rights and that our Constitution protects these rights. 
   And I know that many people do not understand the part that has been played by the rights that were granted in our Constitution to our inventors specifically, but they are vitally important to America's safety and well-being. If we move to harmonize patent law, no, things will not go more smoothly for our country and for the world, what will emerge is a global elite which wants to mandate upon the American people the same things they mandate on the surfs and the servants and the people of other countries who they feel that they are naturally endowed with the right to tell them what to do. 
   No, no. We believe that every individual has rights in this country, and we are not going to harmonize our laws, whether they're patent laws, and we are proud that we have a standard of living that has flowed from our patent laws and our technology laws. We are proud of that, and we are not going to bring down our standard of living in order to harmonize it with the rest of the world. 
   And yes, those businesses that are flowing over to China to use slave labor, yes, we do not want the elite of those companies making policy in the United States, especially if it's policy that would allow them to steal innovative and creative technology ideas from America's inventors, from the little guy. The fact is, we have had the strongest protection of patent rights of any place in the world, and thus we have had more innovation and a higher standard of living than the other people of the world. The common man here has the opportunity that common people in other parts of the world do not have because America has had technological superiority. And if our rights to our patent protection are diminished in order to harmonize those rights with the rest of the world, it should be no great surprise when we will end up with the same type of country that they have in those countries, that our people will have the same type of opportunity and standard of living and freedom that they have in third world countries. Is that what we want? Well, the corporate elite doesn't care what we want because they don't care about us. They were the ones that wanted to bring in tens of millions of more immigrants into our society illegally because they knew that if we legalized the status of those 15 to 20 illegals that are already here, that would bring in 50 million more. They don't care enough about us to want to stop that, and they don't care enough about us to want us to have a high standard of living. 
   This is another inherent conflict between the globalists and the patriots. If we do not win this battle, if we are not vigilant, America will lose and future Americans will not enjoy the freedom and prosperity and safety that we Americans enjoy today. 
   This destruction of our fundamental patent system is an abomination, a long-term threat to the well-being of  the American people, and it will benefit basically wealthy and powerful interests, an elite that has no loyalty to the United States or to our people. Our people have got to know that this is a threat to all of us. Our people need to unite, as we did on the fight against this immigration bill that would have been a disaster for our country and a disaster for ordinary Americans, we need to unite and we need to organize and we need to make sure that people in this body, in the House of Representatives, know that H.R. 1908 is something that is contrary to the interests of our country and is contrary to the interests of working people. And anyone voting for it, it won't be tolerated if that's the way people feel about it. Those advocating the ``sledge hammer'' approach to patent reform, allegedly addressing just small problems, but using a sledge hammer to fix those small problems, are, in reality, advocating a complete reconstruction, and I would suggest destruction, of our patent laws. If they really want to address specific problems, just like it was in the bill with the immigration, let them target those solutions instead of using a bulldozer in the name of knocking down a mole hill.     
   Yes, we can make our patent system more efficient. We can make sure that those patent examiners are trained and well educated and that they know the system and that the system works faster and more efficiently. 
   One thing we could do is make sure everyone who pays for a patent that that money stays in the patent system. Another thing is we can make sure that there are plenty of scholarships available for people who can get their PhDs in their scientific endeavors in these areas so they can come back and work in the patent office. We can correct our problem. But destroying and rearranging the rights of our inventors would be a catastrophe. Think about it. If you have a hangnail, and it is painful, and you go to a doctor, and the doctor goes to great lengths and says, oh, what a horrible hangnail you have there, you must be in pain, and, look, it has a little bit of infection, well, you might listen to your doctor. But what happens when the doctor says, well, I think we are going to get rid of that hangnail problem. We are going to amputate your leg. 
   This is what this is about. Those people are trying to amputate our legs in the name of getting rid of a hangnail because the Patent Office isn't working efficiently. Well, I would suggest that that doctor, if he suggests to you that he is going to amputate your leg, either he isn't incompetent or he doesn't like you. And you better check and find out. But either way, you don't want to follow his advice. 
   We are told by those people who want to totally change the patent system that these evil inventors, people like Thomas Edison and Cyrus McCormick, all of these inventors, the people who invented the drugs that have cured polio, these evil inventors, they actually abuse the system because they own it for 17 years. No. It has been that profitability, it has been that spur, that incentive to create that has come up with these miracle cures, that has come up with these machines that have made us more competitive. Our workers cannot be more competitive with the Chinese or the Indians unless we have the technology. If our technologists are going to have all of the product of their genius stolen by the Chinese and Indians even before the patent is issued, how are we going to compete in the future against China and India? No. These people who are inventors, they are not abusing our law. They are the heroes. They are American heroes, just like the Wright brothers were American heroes. They lead to a better way of life. 
   These large corporations who exploit people and have no loyalty to us, who have armies of lawyers who will steal anything and smash anyone who gets in their way, those are the people we have to watch out for. Those are the people who are behind this proposed change in our patent law. Property rights for the little guy is a good thing. And I don't care if the guys in the corporate board rooms don't agree with me on that. I know that as a Republican people think, oh, well, he must be for business. No, I am for Americans. And I know that today the American people are being abused. If it weren't for the American people, there wouldn't be any freedom anywhere in the world. Any hope for anyone, for mankind and humankind is tied to the willingness of the American people, because we care about them. 
   Why should we harmonize our laws with the rest of the world off of some global vision that some egghead in some university thought up and taught to his students 20 years ago who now are out trying to implement this global vision? 
   Our people are not fighting for a new world order. Our people, when they defend this country, are defending our rights and our liberties. If we ever lose that, if we ever lose the allegiance of the little guy to our country, we have lost everything. Because what it seems like here is what we have got going in this country, whether it is patent law or whether it is immigration law, is that the elite no longer have the allegiance to America's little guys. 
   You know, there is a story that goes with this whole issue. It deals with a little guy who invented the picture tube, Philo Farnsworth. There is a statue to him right down the hallway, a statue here in our Nation's Capital to a country hick named Philo Farnsworth. It shows him there holding a TV picture tube. You know what? Philo Farnsworth was a hick. He had a little training in engineering. He actually figured it out. 
   RCA, the most powerful company in the United States at that time, spent what is the equivalent of hundreds of millions of dollars to try to find the secret of a picture wave that you could have so you can have a television set and a tube that would capture that. Philo Farnsworth figured it out. He wrote RCA. He said, hey, I figured it out. Come on over and we will discuss it. 
   Sure enough, the head researcher from the labs at RCA showed up at Philo Farnsworth's home. Philo Farnsworth went out to the barn and showed him everything and how he had done it and how he figured it out. He had his notes. The guy took extensive notes and said, We will get back to you. Do you know what? RCA spent 20 years trying to steal Philo Farnsworth's invention. It went all the way to the Supreme Court. Thank God for the United States of America, the little guy, Farnsworth, beat RCA, the big corporation. That is why we have a statue to him here. That is what America is all about, protecting the rights of the little guy to make this a better world. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5501, TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I just came from a meeting with local doctors from my district. They told me that there is a severe shortage of funds necessary to care for America's senior citizens. We are having trouble finding the money to even take care of our returning veterans. Millions of Americans are facing foreclosure on their homes. 
   And now, with all of these challenges that we're facing at home, we are being asked to spend $50 billion to fight AIDS in Africa? This is as absurd and as irresponsible as it gets. 
   Where are we going to get the $50 billion for Africa? 
   Well, we can lower spending for our own people. We can raise taxes, which would likely throw us into a recession and leave us even less money for our people at home. Or of course we can borrow it. Yes, if we borrow it, it will probably come from Communist China and make ourselves even more vulnerable to their pressure. 
   We have exported our manufacturing base to China already, and now we want to borrow even more from these dictators so we can give that money away to others? 
   It is terrible that millions of Africans are suffering AIDS. But we cannot afford such totally irrational generosity. This is benevolence gone wild. 
   We can't afford to shortchange our own people, to raise taxes, or to borrow it. Yet, we expect the American people to absorb another $50 billion hit for someone else? 
   We can't take care of our own veterans when they come home from the war. We can't take care of our elderly. We have people who can't take care of their own health needs, and are at risk of losing their homes. And we are going to spend $50 billion in Africa? 
   Mr. Speaker, we have big hearts, but we need to use our brains. We cannot afford this type of $50 billion generosity. It's going to cost, this will cost the American people their way of life. It will cost them their health care, their education for their children. It'll cost our veterans. 
   Our economy is facing a catastrophic setback because of the irresponsible spending and taxing policies of the Federal Government. And now we're going to exacerbate that problem by making believe that we can still afford to save the world by funding every worthwhile cause out there. 
   I'm not in any way suggesting that helping people with AIDS in Africa is not a worthwhile endeavor. But the fact is, we've got to use our heads, or we will have serious negative consequences on our own people. $50 billion is way out of line, is way out of line.  
   It would be wonderful to help the people of Africa through this AIDS crisis by transferring tons of cash into African accounts. But I suggest to you that, as experience shows, just sending that much money will not cure AIDS in Africa, and will have serious repercussions on our standard of living and the quality of life of our own people. 
   I ask my colleagues to vote against this type of nonsense. Watch out for the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to sending $50 billion, $50 billion taken from the American people, to Africa to fight AIDS. 
   When it comes to this situation with AIDS in Africa, obviously, we have some people in crisis who are very deserving people. But where does that $50 billion come from? Are we going to be helping people overseas at the expense of the well-being of our own people? 
   There are only three ways of getting the money: We can take it from domestic programs, take it from those programs to help our own elderly and the health care for our own people, our own veterans; or we can raise taxes, which would knock the legs out from under our economy and make our deficit even higher; or we can borrow the money. And if we borrow the money, we end up spending hundreds of millions of dollars a year on interest. We're going to borrow $50 billion in order to help people overseas and then end up paying interest on it for the next umpteen years? This is benevolence gone wild. 
   Yes, we would like to help everybody in the world. But if we vote for this, it's the most irresponsible measure that I have ever seen in my term here in Congress for 20 years. We are taking directly from our veterans, from our elderly, and others to give $50 billion to Africa. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Thank you very much. 
   Thus what we have to decided to is, are we going to deprive our own people, our seniors? I just came from a meeting with doctors from my district. We can't afford to provide health care for our seniors, for our veterans. We can't afford all the educational things we want to do. How can we possibly, then, take $50 billion and send it to Africa, even though it's a worthy cause? 
   We should not be doing this. It is not in the interests of the American people. And I would call on my colleagues to oppose this totally wasteful expenditure of money.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (BE PREPARED -- (House of Representatives - October 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, ``Be prepared'' is the motto of the Boy Scouts of America. Unfortunately, for those Californians now in harm's way, the leadership of the U.S. Forest Service doesn't have the same commitment. Three years ago, the fleet of airplanes with firefighting capabilities available to the Forest Service declined dramatically, due to both attrition and accidents. I contacted the head of the Forest Service and aggressively suggested that steps be taken to ensure a surge capability in firefighting aircraft should a major conflagration erupt. 
   Much to my chagrin, the leadership at the National Forest Service was not responsive and our fire fighting aviation assets were permitted to dwindle. I continued to push the case for preparedness, focusing on the certification of specially designed Russian firefighting airplanes, so that water bombers would be available if our own depleted air assets were insufficient to handle an emergency. The availability of large American aircraft, like the DC-10, converted for firefighting purposes, was also suggested as a possible backup should the current number of firefighting aircraft prove inadequate. 
   The bureaucratic response from the U.S. Forest Service was disheartening, which is an understatement. The leadership did everything they could not to do anything. They bent over backwards to justify not taking steps to be prepared for the worst scenario. It appeared to be ``good ol' boyism'' and bureaucratic obstructionism with a vengeance. After all my pleas and demands, the Forest Service refused to take the steps necessary to be prepared for the worst. That intransigence was the order of the day at the Forest Service as late as December of last year, 2006. 
   The people of California are now suffering. It was only the intervention of Gov. Schwarzenegger that kept the privately developed fire fighting DC-10 available for the awe-inspiring part it is now playing in the current battle against the flames that have engulfed huge chunks of California. That DC-10, however, as well as the Russian waterbombers, is still not permitted to fight fires on the Federal lands in California, or elsewhere. 
   When the fire is extinguished and an-evaluation is done, one thing that must be determined is whether or not a lack of aviation fire-fighting capacity undercut the courageous efforts of those confronting this enormous blazing inferno. Did people lose their homes because the waterbombers weren't there to save the day? One way or the other, those who made the decision to do nothing at the U.S. Forest Service will be held accountable.   
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (DR. BERNARD SIEGAN: RECLAIMING A REPUTATION -- (House of Representatives - July 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to correct the record concerning a great economist and friend, the late Dr. Bernard Siegan, a distinguished professor of law at the University of San Diego. In 1988 Dr. Siegan was nominated by President Ronald Reagan to the U.S. Court of Appeals. He promptly came under personal attack, most notably from Professor Lawrence Tribe of Harvard University. 
   Tribe wrote a public letter on May 28, 1987, to Senator Joseph Biden belittling Dr. Siegan as being outside the mainstream of American jurisprudence. Tribe further asserted that Dr. Siegan ``reveals himself to be not a judicial conservative but an ideologue of the right, one who would deploy the Constitution in service of a conservative economic philosophy.''  
   In a widely quoted section of his letter, Professor Tribe assailed Dr. Siegan's support of the Brown v. Board of Education ruling as ``a component of the right to travel, a right long secured by the Federal courts,'' which was, of course, Dr. Siegan's reason for supporting Brown v. Board of Education. 
   At the time Professor Tribe claimed that this legal view was ``tortured'' and part of ``Mr. Siegan's radical revisionism.'' At the conclusion of the letter, Professor Tribe wrote, ``The notion that it is a black child's freedom to `travel' onto the school grounds that segregation laws infringed is so bizarre and strained ..... as to bring into question both Mr. Siegan's competence as a constitutional lawyer and his sincerity as a scholar.'' This type of assault was typical of the attacks which preceded the defeat of Dr. Siegan's nomination. That was back in 1987. And much has changed since then. 
   By the time that Dr. Siegan died in March of 2006, he had many books and speeches and articles that made him one of the most prolific and respected legal and constitutional scholars on the political right. He is today credited with being a father of the recurrent rejuvenation of property rights theory in law. 
   In response to Dr. Siegan's defense of his views regarding Brown v. Board of Education, Tribe replied in a letter to Dr. Siegan's wife, and this was September 6, 1991: ``I have reconsidered my description of your analysis of Brown v. Board of Education in footnote 10 on page 1379 of the second edition of American Constitutional Law. I agree with your general approach that Brown can be justified by arguing from the `liberty' component of the 14th amendment ..... '' 
   Now, that was a letter sent to Siegan years later by Dr. Tribe and when Dr. Tribe and Dr. Siegan were corresponding. These letters were found by his wife, Shelley. Tribe in that same letter writes: ``Although I do not reach the same conclusions you do, the issues you raise are important enough to be worthy of scholarly discussion. I am now in the process of drafting a rather substantial supplement to my treatise summarizing recent developments in constitutional law. In my discussion of the equal protection clause, I will include a citation to your book that I am sure will please you more than the citation did in the last book.''     
   Unfortunately for the public reputation of Dr. Siegan, Professor Tribe never did complete the supplement to his treatise, and Dr. Siegan, of course, passed away after that exchange of letters. 
   Mrs. Siegan wrote to Professor Tribe after discovering these letters and asked Dr. Tribe for information on the planned, but not completed, supplement. She also asked the following question: ``In the 19 years since you penned your letter to JOE BIDEN, I wonder if you have reconsidered your comment regarding Bernie's competence as a constitutional lawyer and a serious scholar?'' Tribe replied to Mrs. Siegan on September 21, 2006. ``Please permit me,'' he wrote, ``to apologize to you here for the unnecessarily ad hominem character of what I wrote to Senator Biden in May of 1987. To help correct the record, if only posthumously, I am sending a copy of this letter to Senator Biden. Despite the differences in our perspectives,'' he said, ``I came to think of Bernie, just as you write that he thought of me, as a colleague in the profession we both truly love and consider to be one of the noblest.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. ROHRABACHER. (MOTION TO GO TO CONFERENCE ON H.R. 3121, FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this motion to instruct, but I also rise in support of my colleagues who today are stressing the plight of the American people concerning the price of gasoline. 
   Let me just note that this weekend I was surfing in my district. My wife and I are avid surfers, and my friend and colleague from Florida, who also, of course, represents a State with a long coastline, should understand that we have had offshore oil rigs off California for many, many years, off of my district for many, many years. The only  oil spill we have ever had has come from a tanker which had an accident off our shore. 
   Those people who are adamantly opposed to offshore oil drilling, as we have just heard, are actually making us more vulnerable. They are making their pristine beaches more vulnerable to spills because a tanker has about a 500 percent greater chance of spilling oil than does an offshore oil rig. 
   In fact, let us note that we have heard the argument time and again, why aren't the oil companies drilling off the land they have already been given? In my area that is very clear. The reason the oil companies can't proceed is that they have been stopped by roadblocks put before them, legislative and legal and regulatory roadblocks by radical environmental groups that won't let them drill and won't let them get to that oil. As long as the alliance for the radical environmentalists and the liberal wing of the Democratic Party keeps hold, we are not going to get that supply. 
   The price of oil is high, gasoline is high because the supply is down. The supply is down because there is a coalition between the liberal left and radical environmentalists that have prevented any type of new supply from being developed in the last 30 years. It's as simple as that. The money being extracted from our pockets at the pump is a result of the lack of supply. The idea that pristine beaches are going to be threatened by offshore oil rigs has been used to diminish supply and increase the price of oil at the pump. 
   I rise in support of the motion to instruct and the arguments in favor of more supply of oil for our country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
