<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to address the House once again. 
   As you know, the 30-Something Working Group, we come to the floor with great pride and information to not only share with the Members, but also the American people, and make sure that we, the 110th Congress, the people's House, carry out the wills and the desires of Americans as it relates to making sure that they are represented in a fair and equal way, and also in a bipartisan way. And that is something I take great pride in because I believe that, as the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD will reflect or has reflected in the major votes that have taken place on this floor, had a lot to do with the American people and the way they live, and the way students were paying high interest rates. And we know it is still going through the legislative process, but it has now passed off the floor of the House of Representatives. And also as it relates to the minimum wage and small business tax cuts. It has all moved through in the 110th Congress under the Democratic leadership, and in a bipartisan way, with a number of Republicans voting for those measures. 
   We know the will and the desire was there to do so in the past, but the leadership was not there. So what we want to do, when I say ``we,'' Democratic majority, we want to make sure that we keep that even keel that we are on now, to encourage more bipartisanship, and to also encourage and push more leadership out of this House of Representatives. And I want to commend the Speaker and our Democratic leadership for allowing that to happen in the way that it has. 
   Saying that, Mr. Speaker, I think it is important to continue to talk about what we were touching on just the other day. The 30-something Working Group has been on the floor all of this week. This will make the final evening that we will be addressing the Members, on not only Iraq, but also how our veterans are being handled by, need it be the Department of Veterans Affairs, need it be the Congress or the administration. And I read off last time, which I will do before this hour is over, about the lack of funding and the cuts that have been made from the Bush administration in the past. And I think it is important for us to reflect on that. 
   I think it is also important for us to talk about, in the supplemental that passed this floor, how we put in billions  of dollars to make sure that we are able to take up the slack. Case in point, Mr. Speaker, this is the most recent Newsweek that has been published, Newsweek magazine. It is dated March 5, 2007. I have a copy of it. It actually came to my office. I took the opportunity to read this article. 
   You have Specialist Strock, who is on the front, Marissa. She is age 21. As you can see, she lost both of her legs from the knee down in Iraq. And it is entitled, ``Failing Our Wounded.'' As you know it is a special investigation report, and I think it is important that Members pay very close attention to what Mr. Ryan and other Members who will be joining me shortly have to share with you on this issue on making sure that our veterans are taken care of. 
   Now I know, as a Member of Congress, Mr. Speaker, and I also know just as someone who has been paying attention to the lack of dollars, especially as it relates to outpatient care of veterans, I think for Members like myself who have been in field hospitals in Iraq, that have gone to Germany and have visited the troops on more than two occasions, seeing the kind of care they get there. I have been to Walter Reed, I have been to Bethesda Hospital, but once you start getting out away from the general hospital treatment that our veterans are getting when they first are returning back to the United States, when you start getting into outpatient, even at Walter Reed, which a lot of this is being addressed, a lot of the bad stories are being addressed here in this Newsweek article, when you start getting out in the Midwest, when you start getting even down in my area in south Florida and you start getting a little up from Washington, D.C. into New York and out west, away from the eye of the four-star brass and all the folks that have an opportunity to go to Walter Reed and other places, you start really getting down to the nitty-gritty of what has been wrong with the planning, not only of the war, but the care of the men and women. 
   Now, you have heard me time after time again, Mr. Speaker, and Members, talk about how Members of Congress come to the floor and chest-beat about how they support the troops. Sometimes the debate really goes beyond the reason for a Member to come to the floor. I mean, I have been in my office and watched Members talk and they say, well, I support troops 110 percent. And then you have another Member say, well, I support the troops more than you do. As a matter of fact, I have a tattoo on my arm saying that I support the troops. I am saying that just to say that we have to go beyond our words and we have to act as though we support the troops, the full troops. 
   We have troops that have served, soldiers that have served, sailors that have served, airmen and -women that have served, Coast Guard members that have served, and on and on and on in World War II, I, you name it, Korea. You have Afghanistan; you have even some folks from there. You have folks from the first gulf war. You have Vietnam. All of these men and women that have allowed us to salute one flag, they are getting the real deal. They have been on a waiting list. And now we have put a mountain of new issues on the Department of Veteran Services, or some may call it the Veterans Administration. And I think that it is important for us to realize what is happening and what is happening in the real world. 
   Members of Congress and others, people of influence can go to a local hospital and Congressman, oh, you are here? Don't wait in that waiting room, we will take care of you. Oh, you have a family member that is sick? Don't worry about it, the hospital administrator will meet you at the front door. But to the person that volunteered to defend this country, they don't have that prerogative. They don't have a Member of Congress to show up with them and they can get to the VA. 
   A former friend of mine, still a friend, but he has moved on to a greater place now, Orange Hayes called me one day on my cell phone in Miami, he was at the Miami VA Hospital and he said, Kendrick, I'm not getting the kind of service that one deserves here in the VA. I am not highlighting my hospital, but one thing that I can say that he knew me, he knew my cell number, he knew he could call me. And what did I do? Of course I was there in a matter of two hours. And who was there? Well, let's put it this way: the head of the department dealing with his illness was there, the assistant administrator of the hospital was there, and the director of the nurses, RNs there at that hospital. He got what he needed. And he said, you know, in the best way he could, sat up in his bed and said, I'm so glad that you are my friend because now I have been able to get the kind of service that I need. 
   Well, that should have happened anyway. And I think we have good people in the VA. I know we have good workers there; they are committed. We have good docs there; they are committed. But as it relates to the resources and the priorities in this Congress, the question is, are we committed? 
   Now, this Congress is committed because we already talked about what we did in the supplemental budget. That is a budget that Members didn't even have an opportunity to work through the legislative process. That was left over from the 109th Congress Republican Congress that we decided to do the right thing and cut some projects that were nonpriorities and put over $3 billion in there to be able to assist in providing the kind of care for veterans. And we haven't even gotten started yet. 
   Now, let's just talk about getting started. And we want to thank The Washington Post for what they have done in highlighting the issues at Walter Reed outpatient. I have been there before. I didn't see some of the things that they saw; but luckily we had some men and women that stood up and said, you know, things are not what they should be there. And I understand, Mr. Speaker, you know, a two-star general stepped down today who was over the hospital. But you know something? I know within the coming days, Mr. Speaker, we are going to get down to the bottom of what it is all about for the veterans when they come back and when they go home. 
   When they come through Washington, D.C. and they land at Andrews Air Force base from Germany? When they land there, they are getting the care and all of the attention. But what happens when they go back to Sioux City, Iowa? What happens when they go back to Jacksonville, Florida? What happens when they show up at an airport in Wisconsin, are they still prioritized? Do they feel that we have their back because they had ours? And that is the resounding question. 
   Now, I am excited because, unlike the 109th Congress, the 30-Somethings would give our presentation and meet and talk about what should be happening. And if we had had an opportunity to lead, Mr. Speaker, and Members, and I know that Members who served in the 109th Congress and 108th Congress knew the 30-Something Working Group, if we were given the opportunity, if we asked the American people to have an opportunity to lead, things would be different. I am going to tell you the reason why it is different right now. 
   I am happy that the Budget Committee had hearings on this in the House, not several weeks from now, but have already had hearings. Chairman JOHN MURTHA of the Defense Appropriation Committee has scheduled a hearing on Friday, which is tomorrow, Mr. Speaker. I want our veterans to know that this Democratic House of Representatives has been on the side of making sure that our veterans get what they need, even when they leave the battlefield, even when they go back home; and that we do have Members on the other side of the aisle that feel the same way. But we are willing to provide the leadership of making sure that your issues are heard and that they are resolved, not just heard. 
   Having a town hall meeting talking about what can we do to make things better and not come into Washington and do something about it is not even worth anyone showing up at the town hall meeting or reading a letter and responding to it, though we are trying to do the best we can. This is actually taking place.     
   This is the action that is taking place. We also have oversight committee on government reform subcommittee chairmen will conduct a field hearing at Walter Reed on Monday, this Monday, not next Monday,  not some Monday in the future maybe we will get around to it. The Senate Armed Services Committee has planned a hearing for Tuesday. This is right now. This is right here right now in the moment, and again, I am so happy that these hearings are taking place. 
   The House Armed Services Committee on planning and oversight is also planning a hearing, and I am pretty sure that is days, not weeks. 
   So as we start to respond to what is already a major issue in our country, and we have outlined it as a major issue, we know that within the budget that there has been a number of veterans affairs programs that have been cut, health care programs. We have had fist fights mentally, I do not want to say literally, mentally and through dialogue with colleagues on the other side of the aisle about making sure that we do what we are supposed to do for veterans. 
   It is easy for someone to sit here in an air conditioned Chamber and pull out their voting card and say let us go to war, no problem; I am tough, I voted for it; you did not vote for it. Well, I am tougher than you. That is fine and that is good for Hollywood, but here in Washington D.C., it is important that we plan and that we make sure that the troops and the soldiers and the airmen and the sailors, we make sure they get what they need all the way around 360. You just cannot go a 180 and stop say, well, the veterans, the care is the hard part. You cannot stop there because that is not the responsible thing to do. 
   I think it is important to point out for every one soldier that dies in Iraq, 16 are injured. We talk about the fallen, rightfully so, and we should. We should highlight that, but we have to look at the injured. Sixteen, so think about it when you are watching television and when you pick up the newspaper and you see 3,158 of our men and women that have paid the ultimate sacrifice in Iraq, think about the 16 on top of every one that has been injured, and it is very, very important. 
   The veterans deserve a lifetime guarantee from the American people, a promise of proper medical care and treatment forever. That is what we have to back up here in this Congress, and I know that the will and the desire is here on this side of the aisle to make sure that that happens. 
   I think it is also important that we send legislation to the White House after we have these hearings to make sure that veterans know in the field that we have their back, that the men and women know that we have those individuals and also those individuals that are veterans who--already standing in line--that they get what they need. 
   Many of our veterans hospitals, Mr. Speaker, and outpatient centers, in some parts of rural America you have these clinics that are only open twice a month, and because of cuts, you have some clinics that are open even half a day on that twice a month. We have buildings that are crumbling, and we have VA hospitals that are still in the World War II era. I mean, they have not received the kind of renovation that they need. 
   There is a superinflux of veterans that are coming back from two wars that are ongoing now. Some people may not know it, but there are two different wars that are going on as I speak here on the House floor. We have to make sure that we are prepared to deal with those issues when they return back. 
   Now, I know the Secretary of Defense has already been to Walter Reed, but I can only imagine what we are going to find out in the coming days. I know that a number of other committees will continue to start to look at the issue of how the men and women are served. 
   Mr. Speaker, we spoke time after time again here on this floor, members of the 30-something Working Group, on the responsibility of oversight. I would be worried if we were on President's break last week, this week staff visited Walter Reed Hospital, and our staff from the House of Representatives continued to be deployed throughout the country of getting down to the nitty gritty on what is actually happening in our VA hospitals, what has been the result of cuts year after year. Meanwhile, we have in the President's budget here to make tax cuts permanent, Mr. Speaker, not sunsetting in 2010, but permanent for the super wealthy in this country. 
   Meanwhile, we have veterans that are waiting to see the ophthalmologist or a cardiologist for weeks, some cases months, depends on where they are in the country. 
   So I think it is important, especially as we start to go through the hearings for the 2008 Appropriations Act, I think it is important as we lead into the emergency supplemental, the 99-plus billion dollar supplemental for the war in Iraq, Afghanistan and other areas, that we think about what I am talking about right now. 
   We have some men and women that are on their third, some fourth, deployment. We have hearings now in the House Armed Services Committee about increasing the size of the Army and the Marines. Right now, there is a request for three new Marine brigades. This is 9,000 more troops and to grow it into 20,000. The Army will take some of those soldiers, but as we continue to make our military bigger, to be ready to carry on future conflicts, because of the lack of planning in Iraq, we are in this situation. 
   As we see other countries pull back their troops and start talking about deployment, the administration is saying that we need an escalation in troops. 
   I think it is important for us to realize, especially when you have future generations reading the Congressional Record, wondering what went wrong and who were the leaders, to make sure we got back on track. 
   Now, in November, the American people voted for a new direction. I am 110 percent in the front seat of that new direction, Mr. Speaker. They did not want what they had in the last Congress, a rubber-stamp Congress, and you have not seen the rubber stamp here that we used to have sitting right here, Mr. Speaker. 
   I mean, it was almost like a passenger in the left side of the car, steering wheel here, but it sat right here, to talk about the rubber stamp Republican Congress. I think the American people, and I am not talking about proud Democrats. I am talking about Independents, I am talking about Republicans, I am talking about folks who never voted before in their lives voted this time because they wanted a new direction. 
   In this new direction comes a great deal of responsibility, and in that responsibility, you have to have courage and you have to be willing to lead. I say to my Republican colleagues on the other side, many of whom are my good friends, my very good friends, that when it comes down to leadership, you have to be alone sometimes. You have to be one of the five, you have to be one of the 17, you have to be one of the 25 that are saying I am voting on behalf of my constituents, in this case that I am talking about here, my veterans, and making sure that our men and women have what they need. 
   There are a number of other issues that we can get into, but I think that it is important that we highlight the leadership when it is happening, not, oh, you know something, when you go home. Member, I want to make sure you go home and you tell your constituents there are hearings that are taking place. And you know who can take pride in that, Mr. Speaker? Not just on the majority side, Democrats say we are having hearings. Republicans can go back to their district and say we are having hearings. You know why we are having hearings? Because the leadership demands it here in this House. The Democratic leadership demands hearings on this issue to make sure that veterans know that we are not leaving them behind. 
   I think what is also important here, Mr. Speaker, is the fact that in the last Congress, we had the chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee who said, you know something, I am going to do what the veterans want me to do; I am not going to do what the Republican leadership wants me to do; I am going to do what is right. And guess what, he was stripped of his chairmanship. Not only stripped of his chairmanship, thrown off the committee. This is a man who went through whole process, whole seniority, serving on the committee and was thrown off the committee because he did the right thing on behalf of the men and women that wore the uniform. Not in this Congress. 
   In this House of Representatives, in this Democratic House of Representatives, we look forward to leadership opportunities. This is an opportunity.  
   In the supplemental budget, over $3 billion were given to veterans health care because we took the leadership opportunity to carry it out. We said we had the will and the desire. We have it. So I think it is important to speak in a bipartisan way, to be able to allow Members to go back to their districts, need it be Democrats and Republicans, and say we are having hearings. Matter of fact, the hearings that took place this week, there will be hearings tomorrow, there will be hearings on Monday, there will be hearings, I guarantee you, on a couple of days next week, and out of those hearings, action will take place. Not just hearings, say okay, let us just show, but action will take place. And as we figure out what is going on in other parts of the country, it is important. 
   What I want to make sure I do is I have the Web site because I want Members and I want to make sure veterans know and report where these issues fall short. I want to make sure the Members have it so this is the 30somethingdems@mail.house.gov, 30somethingdems@mail.house.gov. We also ask you to visit, which we will give you more information about what is happening here as it relates to hearings, and go to www.speaker.gov/30something/index.html. That is a lot there but on the top here, 30somethingdems@mail.house.gov. 
   We want to hear it, Mr. Speaker. We want to do something about it, and I think it is important that we have the opportunity to do that. 
   One thing I want to also point out here, Mr. Speaker, and I would encourage the Members once again, is if you have it, it should be in all the Members' offices, the latest Newsweek article or Newsweek magazine which is March 5, 2007. It came to my office. I know it went to a number of other offices. This is compliments of Newsweek. I get one at home, too. ``Failing Our Wounded,'' a special investigation. In this publication here you will hear a lot and see a lot. Also, you can go on washingtonpost.com, and in case you missed it, there is an area there where you can read about some of the failures of not only Walter Reed, but veterans services that are in so bad a condition right now because of the lack of funding and because of the lack of leadership from Washington, D.C., in prioritizing the needs of our veterans. 
   In the article, you have a number of hospital officials that knew of the neglect and also complained about it and voiced their opinion for years but have not been heard, and we know that we have a number of veteran organizations that have come to Washington, D.C., looking for justice. But guess what, I think they are coming this time knowing that they will have an opportunity to sit before a committee. I think they will come knowing that they will have a chance to see something happen this year and in the future budgets as long as you have Democratic control here in this House, and I think it is important and also with some of my friends on the other side joining us. 
   We talked about oversight. We talked about accountability, but I also want to say, as of a week ago, 52 hearings as it relates to oversight of the Iraq War have taken place.     
   Unlike the 109th Congress, the 108th Congress, and Congresses before that one, there have been a number of hearings that have taken place under the Capitol dome. 
   Why are these hearings important? Members are being educated on the issues. Why is education important? We can govern better. We can govern better on behalf of who? The American people. 
   That did not happen at the beginning of this war. That did not happen when we had bills sweep through this House of Representatives, and Members were challenged: if you didn't vote for it, you with not for the troops. 
   Well, the bottom line is that I think we are all, I haven't run into a Member of Congress who says I am against the troops, or an American who has said that I am against the troops, we are all for the troops. The real issue is, do we have enough leadership, or have we had leadership in the past to be able to make sure that we have our troops' backs like they have ours, in the care that they deserve for the rest of their lives? 
   And when we talk about that, we have to talk about individuals going back to their families, Mr. Ryan, who have real issues. Some of those issues can be between the years of being in warfare for 3 years, 4 years, and being asked to go back. We are talking about families, we are talking about communities, we are talking about something that needs special care and needs counseling and treatment. And so when we talk about those things, we have to do something about them. 
   So that is why I am very, very pleased that these hearings are taking place, Mr. Speaker, because the leadership is there to make those hearings happen. There will be Democrats and Republicans a part of it. I am glad that staff was deployed from the Democratic Congress to Walter Reed Hospital and other hospitals here in the Washington area, outpatient centers, to make sure that we can get to the bottom of the problem and make sure that we start working towards a solution. 
   And I want to say, Mr. Ryan, before I yield to you, that I commend the individuals that work in our veterans hospitals for blowing the whistle and talking to the press and talking to the staff about some of the issues that veterans had to face. I want to commend those veterans or those active duty and those individuals that are no longer on active duty, also our National Guardsmen and our Reservists that have been activated for sharing information. And we encourage you to continue to share information so that we can do better, because the willingness and the desire here is in this Democratic Congress to make sure that you get what you need and what you have coming to you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, I appreciate you coming down, sir. You are one of the most dedicated members of the 30-something Working Group. And I know 
   now that you are an appropriator that you have many more responsibilities. And I want you to continue to do those great things that you do on the Appropriations Committee, and I want to thank you for your service on the Armed Services Committee in the last two Congresses. But this is a very, very serious issue, Members; and I am glad that you did find time enough to come down here. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it is important that we look at some of the issues that we are facing here, not only on this article, or articles, out of The Washington Post, not only what Americans are going to be reading in Newsweek and other publications that are going to uncover or shed light on the obvious that so many veterans have been talking about for so many years. One thing for myself, being in the political minority in the last two Congresses and the frustration of not having the opportunity to schedule a hearing, Mr. Ryan said something and I want to just be able to shed light on it, because we have a lot of new Members and I want to make sure they understand. 
   Of course, when you are in the minority you can't call the hearing. It is what it is, like so many people say on the street. You are in the minority, that is it. You can try to do what you can do, but you are not going to call a hearing. And the fact that we have hearings that have been called and hearings that have already taken place and staff that has been deployed to tackle this issue already allows the American people to witness change, to witness a new direction. If I said it three times in my talk here this evening, I will say it again. In politics and what gives people the will and the desire to go vote in the first place is to witness change when they feel that it needs to happen. 
   We talked about a new direction, Democrats did, in the last election. And to actually talk about it and then do it is extraordinary, especially here in Washington, D.C. to be able to go back to your district and say we are going to do something about this lack of service, outpatient service, lack of priority, cut in funding. 
   I spoke earlier, and I am going to highlight what has happened and then I am going to say what we have done in the first action of being able to direct appropriations in the area that it should go in versus special interest giveaways, versus you have to be plugged in or connected to get certain things out of this Congress just on behalf of those that have served. 
   I just want to run down this line here, and I have a chart here. As you know, we have a lot of charts in the 30-something Working Group because we want to make sure that Members know exactly what they need to know, when they need to know it, so that their constituents and my constituents, I can't go home and say, I didn't know that, no one said anything about it. These bills are moving around, some of them are 500 pages. I didn't know what was there. So as we look at what is happening or what has happened, we have to reflect on the past to have a better future. And that is the good thing about what we are doing here. 
   Bush and Republican budget funding for veterans: January 2003, the Bush administration cuts off veterans health care for 164,000 veterans, 68 Federal Reg 2670, 2671, January 17 of 2003. 
   The reason why I read that probably means nothing to the lay person, but for those of you that know where to find this information, it is gold. As a matter of fact, it is platinum. Third-party validators is what we do here on the 30-something Working Group. And on the Democratic side, we believe in third-party validators. The Washington Post is a third-party validator of what we have been talking about in the minority. Now we are glad we are in the majority to do something about it. 
   Third-party validator is a Newsweek cover: ``Special Investigation on Failing Our Wounded,'' that we have been talking about and 12 years in being in the minority. Now we are in the majority, we are doing something about it, what I talked about and what am going to highlight again. 
   March 2003, Republican budget cuts off $14 billion from veterans health care. It passed the Congress with 199 Democrats voting against it. 199 Democrats. That is House Concurrent Resolution 95, vote number 82, and that took place on March 21 of 2003. 
   I think it is important also, on March 2004, Republican budget that short-changed veterans health care cut by $1.5 billion. 
   I think you are getting the message here, Members, of what we are talking about here. And I can go on and on and on about what has not happened and what we have fought for; but I want you to look right down here at the bottom, because this is proof in the pudding and this is the new direction, Mr. Speaker and Members, that we speak so much about here on this floor, and it gives me great pride. I mean, I feel almost fulfilled spiritually, leave alone professionally as a Member of Congress, to be a member of a majority that is about action and about a new direction.     
   When you look at this, January 31, 2007, that was just a month ago, we had to pass a concurrent resolution or a continuing resolution because the work was not done from the 109th Congress that should have been done prior to this time. We had to come in and clean it up. But guess what, in the cleanup we found some waste and special interest, giveaways, and we came up with $3.6 billion in health care funding to replace some of the cuts that the Republican majority made in the last Congress. I almost feel like an attorney in a closing argument. I can rest my case on that. 
   Now, Members can come down here and spend hours upon hours upon hours talking about I love the veterans, oh, I love the troops, oh, my goodness, I get teary-eyed every time I see a veteran or pass a post. But $3.6 billion is action, and I want to make sure the Members who voted against that continuing resolution know that you missed out on an opportunity to do something great, $3.6 billion for veterans health care. 
   Now, guess what, Member, if we didn't put that $3.6 billion and had an opportunity to do something about what did not happen in the past on behalf of veterans, could I speak here on the floor of the House of Representatives representing to the Members of this House of Representatives that we did the right thing back on January 31 of this year?  
   Sometimes we know of the glory but we have to tell the story, and the story is having the will and having courage, willing to do something on behalf of those who have sent us here, in this case, since we are talking about the veterans tonight, those that have allowed us to be in the Capitol, saluting one flag and secure, those that allow my children to live in a free society, those that have had friends that have paid the ultimate sacrifice, those that it takes longer than 2 hours in the morning for them to get out the door because of the price they paid. 
   Members, this has to be bipartisan, and so when we look at what has happened under a partisan venue, we have to be excited about $3.6 billion and counting in the future. We have to be excited about the oversight hearings that I have talked about that Mr. Murtha is going to have as chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee on Appropriations. We talked about the Armed Services Committee, oversight committee, going and having hearings. 
   We talked about the Budget Committee that has already had a hearing. We are talking about the Senate doing the same thing on that side. We are talking about deployment of staff into veterans hospitals finding out the damage, what has happened because of the lack of funding that has been cut off over the years. That is substantial; that is substantial. 
   I would urge the Members on both sides of the aisle to go home and tell your constituents that we are on the job, that we are going to make it happen on behalf of their uncle, on behalf of their aunt, on behalf of their mother that may be deployed right now. But when she gets back, we are going to have her back. That is what is important, not lip service, but action. 
   Now, as a Member of Congress it gives me no pride to talk about the failures of the Bush administration or the past Congress, or even this Congress. We are not even 3 months into a new Congress. We have had 52 hearings dealing with Iraq plus, and I have to make sure that staff gives me the new numbers when we get back here next week, and counting, to give the American people the accountability that they deserve, those that are in harm's way, that they deserve. 
   You let some tell you here in the House of Representatives, oh, Democrats are weak on defense. We are for the veterans, don't you know? 
   Well, you know something, the thing about the story is the fact that it has bumps in it. The thing about the Congressional Record is the fact that it tells the truth, and the truth will set you free like we have heard so many times in places of worship. But it will set you free when it comes down to the track record. 
   We have the Republican side that says the tax-and-spend Democrats. Okay, what does the record reflect? The record reflects great accountability. 
   Guess what, the only party in the history of this country that has ever balanced the budget was the Democratic Congress without one Republican vote, the only party. 
   They talk about budget reduction and all that, but the bottom line is you can't hold, you can't have one arm on special interest and another arm on responsibility and make sure it all gets out because you know what, in past Congresses, special interest has always won. So as we start to look at this issue, we learn more about what is going on in our outpatient services, and we learn more about the lack of service that our veterans are receiving, not just the new ones, but the ones that have been there and suffered for years, and have suffered even more of the cuts of the Republican leadership in the White House and here in Congress. 
   The story, goodness, a Republican chairman of a committee of the Veterans' Affairs Committee did the right thing at one point and said, I am going to do this on behalf of veterans here in the United States of America; and those that are abroad at foreign bases and their families, we are going to do the right thing for him, and he was stripped of his chairmanship. I challenge any Member to come down here and challenge me on that fact. They won't, because it actually happened. 
   I guarantee you, the present chairman of our Veterans' Affairs right now will not be stripped for working on behalf of veterans. That will not happen. I say that with great confidence. 
   So I am excited. I mean, we just broke for the week. I am just glad to be here tonight to just witness, like we say in the Baptist Church, a change in a new direction. 
   I am so glad that the Record will reflect, not just American people but Democrats, that when the American people voted for a new direction, it actually happened. We are moving in a new direction. 
   Every time I see the votes on the board right above our heads here, we have bipartisan votes, it makes me feel even better about what we are doing, because that means that you are doing the right thing. This is a partisan arena here in Washington D.C. By the rules it is partisan. By the fact that you cannot even call a committee hearing, it is partisan. It has been that way for a very, very long time. 
   When you start to see Members breaking ranks with partisanship to say, I need to vote for this very good thing for my constituents, that is powerful, because it hasn't happened before; and I am not talking about procedural votes to the Members. We know Members are going to vote on the issues. 
   As we start to do good things on behalf of our veterans, we look forward to that bipartisan spirit. We look forward to it, and we know that there will be votes that we have to be bipartisan on. But I can tell you one thing: when it comes down to our veterans, we have to be together on this. National security, we have to be together on this. We have to be together on a number of issues, health care, what have you, because the country is looking for us to be leaders. 
   I am so glad that we have a Speaker that is a leader. I am so glad that we have Members that are 
   serving in leadership positions on oversight committees that are leaders and really don't mind being talked about and misunderstood from time to time, because the outcome measures will reflect, out of the appropriations committees, Ways and Means, you name it, the Budget Committee, the priority of American people. 
   They are not just Democratic ideas. These are ideas that are American and that are right. We can't point at another country and say, look, wow, they don't even have good uniforms, when we are not following, we are not doing, we are not leading by example, just put it that way. 
   So I wanted to point this out, and I am glad that I had this information handy here to be able to share with the Members and allow them to have a chance to reflect on some of the issues of the week and also issues that will be coming up next week. 
   The last point, and I think this is very, very important, at Walter Reed today a major general stepped down. But you know something, it goes higher than that; it goes higher than that. A two-star general stepped down today from Walter Reed, stepped down, resigned. It goes higher than that. This reminds me of other issues that because of a lack of oversight have taken place in our Federal Government, and the first person to go is the person almost to the bottom of the totem pole. This goes higher than that. 
   I am excited that the Secretary of Defense did go out there, but I am going to tell you something. As we start to peel back the issues on this issue of failing our wounded, because of a lack of funding, more and more individuals, more and more e-mails that will be uncovered of who knew what when, who did not act, and it may lead very well back to the White House, may very well lead back to the past Congress, it may very well lead back to a high-level bureaucrat that looked the other way, because it was okay to look the other way. 
   This is not a witch hunt; this is about making sure that our veterans understand that we are moving in a new direction. If the administration is not willing to be a part of that new direction and wants to hold on to their original thoughts, then we are just going to have to show them that direction; and that is going to take courage, it is going to take leadership, and I know that the majority Members of this House have that courage and leadership. 
   Again, before I close, I want to commend the workers at Walter Reed. I  want to commend those that came forward. I want to commend those individuals that have been working for 15, 20 years, taking care of our wounded, taking care of our men and women in said communities, and we look forward to continuing to support them in that effort, and help is on its way. As a matter of fact, help is already there. 
   You can e-mail us, Members, at 30somethingdems@mail.house.gov, and our Web site is www.speaker.gov/30something. 
   I want to thank Mr. Ryan for being a part of this hour. I want to thank the Speaker and the Democratic leadership for allowing the 30-something Working Group to come to the floor one more time. It was an honor to address the House of Representatives. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to address the House, and it's good to be here before we go on 4th of July break to celebrate the birthday of this great country. 
   As you know, in the 30-something Working Group, we come to the floor to discuss a number of issues that are facing the American people, and also, I think it's important to identify our focus on the issues in Iraq and Afghanistan and the issues that are facing the American people. 
   I think, Mr. Speaker, the events over the weekend in Iraq and also in Afghanistan even give us further focus on making sure that the issues that are facing our men and women that are in harm's way are addressed here in the Congress. I think it's also very important for us to focus on what has not happened in this Congress as it relates to making sure that we meet the needs of our men and women. 
   We have appropriation bills that have been held up in the process that are now moving through the process. It's not because of the majority side's lack of will to be able to move them, it's the fact that we have some of our friends on the other side of the aisle that see it fit to slow the process down, but that argument is for another day. 
   As you know, I'm one of the Members, especially on this side of the aisle, that push for bipartisanship. Mr. Speaker, I spend quite a bit of time here on the floor talking about how when we work together, we're able to move the American agenda forward. And I look forward to continuing to stand up on behalf of bipartisanship here in the House to accomplish a goal to be able to make sure that our men and women in harm's way are able to receive the representation that the American people voted for. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think also what we should touch on is the fact that we have sent a number of documents to the White House, and those documents happen to be law, or proposed law. We had a bill that passed both House and Senate emergency supplemental that had not only benchmarks in it, but also withdrawal dates that were sensible and that were timely to let the Iraqi Government know that we will not continue to reward a lack of action on their side and accomplishment on their side as it relates to securing Iraq. That was vetoed by the President. But I can say that not one Democrat went to the White House and stood behind the President and said that we will stop any override of the President's veto.     
   I am so glad that we did send that bill there to show the American people that we are willing to do the things that we need to do. 
   We also passed a nonbinding resolution against the surge in Iraq, the escalation, I must add, in Iraq of U.S. troops and personnel. That was a strong message that the American people wanted to send out. That was successfully passed. Now, we are going to have two reports when we get back July 15, I would say to Mr. Larson, our Vice Chair, in a report in September. I think it is going to be very, very important for the Members to remember that we are Americans first, Members of Congress. Along with that, that first chair that I mentioned, and on the second hand, that we are from two different parties, because there are men and women who are counting on us to work together. 
   But those of us on this side of the aisle have to provide the leadership. If the leadership doesn't come from the White House, then we are here, sent by American taxpayers, American voters, to represent them from the said districts that we are from. But it is important that we provide that leadership and opportunity. 
   I would like to yield to my good friend, Mr. John Larson, from the great State of Connecticut. He is our Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus. I want to thank you, sir, for your leadership on this very issue of Iraq. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, I am glad Mr. Ryan from Ohio has joined us, Mr. Vice Chairman. I just want to commend you for your work with the Iraq Watch Group and the work that you have been doing here in the House, not only working with Members such as myself, but others that are trying to find a way that we, Mr. Speaker, can get our troops home more sooner than later. I think it is important that all Members focus on the fact that we come to the floor to make sure that we can work together. 
   Again, Mr. Speaker, I would like to not only warn, but I would like to bring to the attention of the Members of the House that when that bipartisanship is blocked or Members are discouraged from voting on legislation, or voting in the affirmative, or slowing down the process, when we are trying to carry out the work that the American people sent us up here to do, then we have to rise up, the majority that the Vice Chairman speaks of so much, to do the things that we need to do on behalf of the people.     
   I think, Mr. Larson, when you were talking, I couldn't help but reflect on what we were able to do last week as it relates to our military construction/VA spending bill, which was the largest single increase in VA in the 77-year history of the VA. It was a bipartisan vote that took place in the final analysis, and it was something that was well-needed. 
   This is far from what you remember under Republican control, when the chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee just got so fed up and could no longer tell the veterans groups in this country that he could help them, do what he thought he was supposed to have done on behalf of those men and women coming back, those men and women waiting in line 6 months to see a specialist or what have you. He was removed as chairman. 
   Now we are under a Democratic-controlled Congress, understanding our responsibilities, understanding we have two wars going on, understanding that the VA doesn't have all of the things that it needs to have because of the cuts that have been made, understanding there is a Secretary of the VA appointed by the President that was confirmed by the Republican Senate, understanding that he doesn't want to make career decisions like some Members have, one Member did, who used to be the Chair of the Veterans Affairs Committee. And I have that in my document that I will bring up a little later. 
   But I think it is important that we keep the focus; that we work double time in making sure that our men and women that are taking the fight to almost an unseen aggressor in the middle of a civil war in Iraq, with no end in sight, that they know that we are here, especially the majority of us here in this House, and will do everything in our power, go to as many meetings as we need to go to and get legislation to this floor and keep it in the forefront. 
   I say this, Mr. Larson and Mr. Ryan, because I know there are a number of  military families that are there waiting on their loved ones to come home. I know there is a wife waiting for a husband, or a husband that is waiting on the wife to come back. I know there is a child that wants to celebrate what my children celebrate, me walking through the door, their mother walking through the door, on a nightly basis, being able to do the things that families do. But if you are a soldier, you are deployed 12 to 15 months, Mr. Speaker, hands down. And we know with this surge that the troop levels have reached a level that has endangered the readiness of our country here. I think it is important. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Chairman, it is interesting that you would say that, and I can definitely share with you that we have to put a face on this issue. 
   Mr. Speaker, I know time after time again there are some Members that are concerned that we may have a single focus on Iraq, and that is not the case. We are moving the House. We have appropriation bills that are moving through the process. We have legislation. We have the 9/11 legislation coming up this week. The Senate is fast at work, doing work before we leave on Friday. It is important to put a face on this. 
   I said before, Iraq, Iraq, and that other issue, Iraq. But look what it is doing to the country. Look where it is holding up the resources; where it is taking up so much of our time, not only of the Congress, rightfully so, because our troops are in harm's way. 
   We have a President that is saying ``troops will be in Iraq,'' he said this in the past, ``troops will be in Iraq as long as I am President.'' ``We will be in Iraq,'' saying ``we.'' 
   This is the first time he has not had a rubber stamp Congress since he has been President. I think it is important that our colleagues on the other side of the aisle, those that have to vote with their constituents and for their constituents, make sure we can work towards measures in getting our men and women out. 
   But to punt the ball down and say, well, let's try on the next series of downs, we have to actually try to run the ball on fourth down. Running the ball on fourth down is having not only American families that are affected by this war in Iraq, but those that are not, letting their Members of Congress know that enough is enough. 
   Now, let me share this with you. We are going to fight the policy battle and we are going to make sure that our men and women have what they need to have that are in harm's way. That is  a no-brainer. I have never run into an American or even received a letter that says ``I encourage you not to support the troops.'' Or ``I don't support the troops.'' You never hear that. You always hear people support the troops. 
   The policy is an entirely different issue, and I think it is very important to say time after time again that to move in a new direction, that is the what the American people wanted last November, is being able to have not only the guts, but the integrity to move in that direction. 
   It is beyond good government. It is making a commitment to those who have made a commitment to us. And they are counting on us to stand up. And when I say us, I am not talking just about good Democrats. I am not just talking about Republicans. I am talking about all Members of the House. 
   The reason why it is very difficult, Mr. Larson, as you know, to move the kind of legislation that we would like to move through this process, is because in the Senate they need a number of votes to be able to do so, 60 votes, I think that is the number. 
   Here in the House, the majority is not all that big, even though we are in the majority. I know that the record speaks for itself, and before we leave here tonight, I am going to read what I read a week ago into the Congressional Record about the accomplishments of this Congress and what we have done as it relates to this issue of Iraq and where we have run into a roadblock with the President on not only vetoing legislation, with the help of our Republican colleagues on the other side of the aisle that have been standing with the President. 
   I would like, if I can, I don't know if my chart is on the floor, Mr. Larson, I had this chart with the President on it and the Republican Congress, where they borrowed so much money. I want to have a prop so I can make the point even clearer to the Members. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Vice Chairman, I just want to thank you for your continued leadership, and point out one fact before I go to my chart over here. 
   This is not an issue as it relates to, but in the 30-something Working Group, and let me just back up. In the 30-something Working Group, we like to have third-party validators. We like to have information so Members know exactly what they are voting on. We all have to go back home and talk to our constituents about the things that we have accomplished, and the resources we brought back to our district, and where we stood up on behalf of those that needed us to stand up for them. 
   There have been 47 key measures that have passed, 79 percent bipartisan consensus. I think that is important because what you are talking about as it relates to the Senate and what I have experienced serving with you in the 108th Congress and 109th Congress, we knew where our place was in those Congresses. We knew it was hard to bring a consensus vote because the leadership on the Republican side would fix the deck so we wouldn't have consensus, we wouldn't have bipartisanship. 
   With Speaker Pelosi, who encouraged bipartisanship where we can come together on issues, and these are major issues, these are not post offices. There is nothing wrong with naming post offices. I think Americans should be recognized at the local post office, and it is a wonderful privilege that we have here in Congress to do it. But I think it is important that everyone understands that across the board 47 key measures, and you know I love charts, Mr. Larson, we are going to review those 47 key measures so Members know the time we have come together on behalf of the American people. 
   I say all of this to say when I spoke of the rubber stamp Republican Congress, and I have my rubber stamp, and that is one thing I have protected. It is in my office and it is high up on the top of a cabinet. I keep my eye on it because I don't know, many of the charts I have had in the past that have been very, very effective in making the point to the Members, I call it a moment of clarity, fact versus fiction, someone, somehow these charts are leaving the floor. I don't know what is going on. I'm not saying anything, but I would love my charts back. Hopefully one of the Members will hear me. 
   President Bush, when you look at it, and this is by the U.S. Treasury, the foreign debt, when we talk about this war and we talk about the life of our men and women, many of them will never come home. A large number of our forces will never come home. And if they do come home, a number will come back with physical issues, emotional issues or mental issues that we have to deal with. 
   So what we did in an appropriations bill, over what the President calls for as it relates to mental health counseling, what the President has done in the past and what Members of Congress have done, the rubber-stamp Congress, the President, over 42 other Presidents, and this is my old chart. It is a new number, but this President has borrowed more from foreign countries than 42 other Presidents. So 42 Presidents over 224 years were only able to borrow $1.01 trillion. This President, $1.19 trillion at the end of the Republican control of the House. This is the Republican House here that allowed the President to rubber stamp. 
   Here is my point that I want to come back to that Mr. Larson made earlier. We as Democrats and a few Republicans, sent a bill to the President that we consulted generals, we had hearings. The Appropriations Defense Committee had more hearings than the last Congress had combined on the whole issue of Iraq and this was just an emergency supplemental. I think it is important for the Members to understand that we sent that bill to the President and the President had a meeting. Members of the Republican Conference went down and had a lunch. They all came out and stood behind the President I think on the east steps, I saw it on television, and said we stand with the President and we have made a commitment to the President that we will not take part in overriding his veto as Members of the House. 
   Here is the Republican Congress, here is the $1.19 trillion that we have borrowed from foreign nations. It reminds me of the past Congress. So when Mr. Larson started talking about those willing to stand in the schoolhouse door of good policy, Mr. Speaker, I am seeing that and saying, ``Okay, the American people have taken the majority from the Republicans.'' And I am speaking as a Republican, which is very highly unlikely here on this floor. Taken the majority from them and now giving it to the Democrats to move in a new direction. Just when we start carrying out the will of the  American people, Mr. Speaker and Mr. Larson, how can we stop this from happening? What can we do? 
   So the Republican says, ``Well, we don't have the votes on the floor because the American people have taken 
   that away from us. Well, maybe in the Senate, maybe we can drum up something. We need to have bipartisan support, but we are not going to get it because we are going to stand in the way as much as we can?'' 
   And I think it is important that the American people understand and Members of the House understand, both Democrats and Republicans, we were sent here to do something. I enjoy those Members who take extra time to work on the art of doing something and moving us in a new direction. But I see Members trying to find some sort of creative way to stop things that the supermajority of the American people want. 
   The first thing that they threw out, ``Well, the Democrats will leave our troops without what they need.'' 
   That didn't happen. 
   ``Well, the Democrats are soft on homeland security.'' 
   Then we pass a bill that has done more than the Republican Congress has done since Homeland Security has been created. As a matter of fact, it was a Democratic idea that started the Department of Homeland Security so we can have the consensus that we needed. And to have the Republicans come to the floor and say that, and the facts are not there to support their arguments. 
   But I wanted to have this illustration here of the Republican Congress with the President addressing the Republican Congress, the President is doing the State of the Union and the picture is taken this way to show the Republicans on that side, Mr. Larson, to go back to your point, so we have a moment again of clarity, a moment to say that not only do we have illustrations to show how it happened in the past, and that is the beautiful thing about history, and it is good you can bring this history up, and it can be lifted off the Congressional Record, but to be able to let Members know that there are only so many times that you can stand in front of the will of the American people and be rewarded. Because the American people, one thing that I saw, last November, I have said here on this floor the American spirit will always rise. The American spirit will rise above partisanship. 
   My message to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, and we always say on the floor ``my good friend.'' But you know what, they are good friends. We work with them every day. We live the same life. Many of them are away from their families. Some of them are living in this city. They miss their family members, so we go through some of the same things that our colleagues do. So we are all here in the Chamber and our card is the same shape, and we stick it in this machine and we vote on behalf of the American people. But I can tell you this, the American people will not reward when you go out of your way to stop their will. That is the point I wanted to make. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Larson, I just want to thank you for not only your passion but your leadership. Again, I go back to third-party validators. I go back to the will and the desire. Many times we stood here on this floor and talked about, Mr. Speaker, if you give us the opportunity, if we become the majority, what we would do. Six months hasn't really even clicked by yet. Let's just say 7 months hasn't. We haven't enjoyed 7 months of being in the majority of this House. It just happened in January, and we're talking late January, mid-January, where the power changed here in this House of Representatives. 
   And the bills, the 47 major bills, at least three actions that we have taken, on the action we have taken on Iraq alone, major. The hearings that we've had in the Foreign Affairs Committee, double-digit hearings. Armed Services Committee, double-digit hearings. In Government Oversight, double-digit hearings. You didn't hear about these hearings because they weren't called in the last Republican Congress. 
   Mr. Larson, when you were talking, I couldn't help but pull out of my book of information here, because every day we open this book, Mr. Speaker, and we find things, we call the National Archives, we call committees, we want to know what's going on here in this House, we want to know the Members that are trying to push these issues, moving in a new direction. 
   There's a bill, H.R. 13, by Sam Farr. He has nine cosponsors on that bill which is a bill that he has been working on. Representative Lynn Woolsey has legislation to bring the troops home, Iraq Sovereignty Restoration Act. Mr. Farr's legislation is to repeal Authorization for the Use of Military Forces Against Iraq Resolution of 2002, Public Law 107-243, and require withdrawal of U.S. Armed Forces from Iraq. That's the title of his bill.  
   We move on to Representative David Price, who has a Comprehensive Strategy for Iraq Act of '07 which would withdraw troops as quickly as possible from Iraq. He has a list of cosponsors that are moving down that line. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I just want to make sure we don't leave anyone out. We have House Resolution 15, also expresses the sense of Congress and also immediate repeal which is done by Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee. We have also ours truly, Congressman Larson, John B. Larson, repeal the Authorization for Use of Military Forces Against Iraq Resolution. You have Representative Ellen Tauscher. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. As we come to a close, Mr. Larson, I just want to again thank you for joining not only Mr. Ryan and I tonight but you have been here before in the past. I would encourage, especially with you being in the top four of our leadership here in the House, our elected leadership as relates to the Democratic Caucus, I know that you give voice to many of us that are out here pushing every day. We have good people working, not only Chairman Emanuel, but also Mr. Jim Clyburn and also Mr. Hoyer and Speaker Pelosi. 
   I think it's important that we continue to push this issue on, because we are going to need bipartisanship to be able to move this agenda of safety for our men and women that are in harm's way, move this agenda for those families that are waiting on their loved ones to come home, move this agenda, Mr. Speaker, that the American people want us to move in a new direction. If we can just put partisanship aside just for a moment to do that, it will be a place in history in this country that we stood up on behalf of those men and women that are in harm's way and we followed the will of the American people. I just want to thank you, Mr. Larson, for being here. 
   Mr. Speaker, I can share this with you. A, we appreciate the Members who have worked with us on the 47 
   bipartisan measures. B, I think it's also important to know that as these issues move to the floor, many of these issues never would have made it to the floor if it wasn't for the leadership of the Speaker and our leadership team and the great Members here in the majority and even some of our Members in the minority. You know, we like to share here, some of the bills, on eight bills combined, they have 79 cosponsors, 76 of them are Democrats, 3 are Republicans. As Mr. Larson identified, some of those members of the Republican Conference that have come forth, Mr. Speaker, and said, hey, I've heard my constituents, I see what the American people are talking about, those moderate voices that are there. They should be commended. We spend a great deal of time letting them know, and I know when I see them in the hall and even some of my friends that don't necessarily see the light on this issue, we still take the time to talk in a very sensible way on this because this is work on behalf of the country. 
   We have Members that are Reservists, that are National Guard men and women, that are in the Coast Guard and other branches of the military, they're all counting on us to have those conversations and continue to work through the issues. You want to look at good government, you look at good government. 
   As I close, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Larson reminded me of something on 9/11. Everyone came together. Yes, my mother was a Member of Congress at that time. I remember she voted against giving the President authorization to go to war after that as it relates to Iraq. But I think it's important to be able to reflect on the past and find times when we have come together and try to find those times in the future and also work with the President. As much as I disagree with him on this issue of Iraq, I do respect the office of the presidency. I know every Member of Congress does. All we can do is continue to try to work together. But I do share with the Members that it is going to take bipartisanship because there are ways that they can block this from happening. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, it was an honor addressing the House. I thank the gentleman from Connecticut and the gentleman from Ohio for joining me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, it is an honor to be here on the floor once again on behalf of the 30-Something Working Group. I am glad to be joined by my good friend, Mr. Ryan, from Niles, Ohio, who has joined me on a number of occasions here. We have joined one another.     
   We look forward to other members of the 30-Something Working Group joining us here on the floor. 
   There is a lot going on in the Capitol Building today, a lot of committees meeting, Madam Speaker. A number of bills are moving through the process, and the American people are being served, with a new attitude of the U.S. House of Representatives, especially 110th Congress, that we will work as every American does. We will punch in at the beginning of the week and punch out at the end of the week and work on the weekends sometimes. So that is a good attitude to have, especially when you have two wars going on. You have the President passing on a budget that the American people don't see eye to eye with, nor this Congress sees eye to eye with. But we will work those issues out, and we will talk about them a little further as we move along. 
   One of the other things that I think that we can touch on are some of the findings, that now these committees are meeting and we have some level of oversight, Madam Speaker, that we are going to find out some things that have been happening in Iraq or what has not been happening in Iraq. 
   We are also going to learn more about the President's budget as we move along. And I am having a copy of the budget brought to us here on the floor because I want to make sure that the American people and definitely the Members get an opportunity to see this big document. Yesterday and today the Ways and Means Committee held hearings and had the Secretary of the Treasury and now the Office of Management and Budget Director here before the committee today. And there are a lot of questions that are being asked, and very few are being answered. And we will talk about a little of that today. 
   But once again, I yield to my good friend Mr. Ryan from Niles, Ohio. I am glad that you are here and am looking forward to talking about some of the issues that are facing this Congress and the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Reclaiming my time, Mr. Ryan, I am just so glad you had those charts to really spell out what the President's budget wants to do to Americans versus for Americans. 
   And I think it is very, very important that we continue to march on and do the things that we need to do to represent the American people, Madam Speaker. The reason why we come to the floor to point some of these issues out, this is an unopened copy of the budget that we received this week here in the Capitol, in the House of Representatives and in the Senate, and it is our job to look through this budget and see what is good and what is bad for the American people. 
   The American people delivered this people's House a change. The change for accountability, the change for oversight, and the change to be able to make sure that this country moves in the right direction. America said they want to move in a new direction. We said we wanted to move them in a new direction and that we were going to be a part of that atmosphere. 
   The reason why we are pointing these things out, Madam Speaker, is because we want to make sure the Members know the work we have before us not only on the Ways and Means Committee, but also on the Budget Committee. Every Member of this House, their said committees are having hearings now, need it be the Secretary of Education or the Secretary of Labor or even the EPA Administrator, to come before their said committees of jurisdiction to talk about why they submitted certain things in the budget, need it be the environment or education or justice or what have you. 
   But I think it is very, very important to point out how this budget continues to move in the wrong direction, the President's budget, as it relates to the growth of our country and the health of our local communities and States. I learned a term about 8 years ago when I was in the State legislature, and it is called ``devolution of taxation.'' Cut the taxes at the Federal level, and pass unfunded mandates down to the States and local government. And in this budget I see the President continues to embrace that philosophy, devolution of taxation. 
   Let me go further on in that definition of ``devolution of taxation.'' Here in Washington, D.C., we have made a paradigm shift in this House to use the philosophy of pay as we go. We want to show how we are going to pay for it if we are going to fund it, not pay for it and continue to work on this chart and borrowing from foreign nations and owing foreign nations money, as the Republican Congress did and the President did. What we want to do is do it in a responsible way. 
   But as we start talking about devolution of taxation, when you cut opportunities for local government, and some statistics have shown that as it relates to this budget, from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, they estimate the total aid to States and local governments will decline, has declined $12.7 billion. So we pass this on to the States, and they have to fill the gap that we are not willing to fill, or obviously the President is not willing to fill, that we are going to try to do our best to fill here in this House of Representatives. They have to rob from Peter to pay Paul. Well, who is Peter? Nine times out of ten, it is a person that is trying to educate him or herself or their family, or grandparents that are trying to educate their children, that the tuition at the State university system is going to up.     
   The assistance for the elderly in a said State may end up being cut. Health care to children and other opportunities that States like to provide for the citizens of their State will end up being cut because they have to fill the gap that the Federal Government is not filling. 
   Then, on top of that, it continues to roll down, because, by constitution, by all State constitutions, they have to balance. They don't have the prerogative of saying, we will put it on a credit card or borrow from a foreign nation. They have to balance their budget. So they balance their budget on the backs of local government. Then the local government has to figure out how they are going to raise money, be it needed for education, school districts, or needed for local county or city commissions. Then they end up putting some sort of levy or penny tax or referendum on the local communities and voting for transportation needs or voting for parks and recreation. 
   The reason why that is happening more and more in U.S. cities is because of the kind of budget that the President sent to the Hill on the backs of the American people. 
   Now, what else is in this budget? You have to think about, this budget is standing for the individuals that are not even asking for tax cuts to be made permanent on behalf of wealthy Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, once again, thank you for your charts, sir, because we need to make sure the Members know exactly what was handed down from the President of the United States to this Congress and the work that we have cut out. 
   Some tough decisions are going to have to be made, Madam Speaker. Some millionaire may not get all of the tax break they have been waiting and counting on from the President of the United States. We have hardworking Americans out there looking for a break. We have small businesses out there looking for a break. Meanwhile, the President says, make my original thoughts permanent because I had a rubber stamp Congress in the 109th and 108th and so on, that did what I said do, continue that, and let's cut assistance to State and local governments. Let's cut the COPS Program. Let's cut Medicaid benefits. Let's make life harder for veterans as it relates to their benefits and the clinics that are open out there, that we just did something about in the continuing resolution. Let's continue that philosophy. 
   But for those individuals that are being driven and buying new cars every other year, let's continue to make life wonderful for them. And, by the way, let me send an escalation of more troops over to Iraq, where we just had a hearing just yesterday here in the House of Representatives that we are now getting down to the nitty gritty on what happened to $8 billion that no one can account for that was cash money. Very little of it can be accounted for, very little. Eighty percent can't be accounted for. Let's continue to practice that philosophy in Iraq. 
   So, Mr. Ryan, the only, I guess, comfort that I have at this moment is the fact that the American people voted to move in a new direction, Madam Speaker, and we are willing to take them in that direction. But, at the same time, Mr. Ryan, the philosophy of the 30-Something Working Group, we want to make sure that every Member understands their responsibility. 
   We have Veterans' Day coming up. We have Memorial Day coming up. We have a number of holidays that are recognizing the contributions of Americans that allowed us to salute one flag. The least that we can do is break it down to the point that every Member understands his or her responsibility in the House of Representatives. 
   So, if you want to be on the side of the super, super billionaires and millionaires, you make that choice. If you want to be on the side of the American people that work hard every day, to give them some sort of break so hopefully they can pay for tuition to make sure their children can make it through college, and, as Mr. Ryan said, in the first 100 hours, we dealt with a lot of that. We dealt with the minimum wage, which is now coming back from the Senate that will be over here in the House either today or tomorrow, or is already here. We dealt with the issue of being able to make a reverse about face on the interest rates that the previous Congress put on students and their families. We rolled that back. 
   There are a number of things that we have already put through the process, pay-as-you-go principles here in this House, to put this country on the right track. 
   Yes, tough decisions have to be made. But, at the same time, we have to be responsible, and we can't just rely on sound bites as though, well, that will get us past the process. 
   I believe that we can make it to the promised land, not through doing the same thing expecting different results, but having the kind of oversight and having the kind of foresight and watching out for these individuals. 
   Weatherization. You mentioned weatherization, Mr. Ryan, as it relates to keeping our most frail and poor warm during the wintertime. The President is asking to keep a tax cut permanent for super billionaires but cut weatherization assistance for a lady on fixed income in Detroit, Michigan. 
   I am just trying to understand the balance here and the priorities as we start to look at this. The President is asking for a cut in a number of the Department of Justice programs, Madam Speaker, that assist local sheriffs and police chiefs in combating and preventing crime. The COPS Program, zeroed out. 
   The President last week, Mr. Ryan, had an announcement come out that we are going to move for the maximum Pell Grant. Then the budget comes out, and it is the same level of what he has recommended over the last 4 years. So, the words don't match the action. 
   So our job here in the House, Madam Speaker and Members, is to make sure that even if the President makes a commitment to the American people and we agree with that commitment, that we have to find some room in this budget, which I know that Chairman Spratt and other members of the Budget Committee and members of committees that have jurisdiction and oversight, will have some say in how we move in the new direction as it relates to America. So we are going to have a serious paradigm shift. 
   I see Mr. Ryan here has one of our favorite charts out right now just to illustrate what past budgets have done, Madam Speaker, and where it left this Congress in spending the majority of its money, not on the priority that the majority of the American people would like us to balance on but because of bad management. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Mr. Ryan, for yielding to me. And I just think it is important that we have this dialogue here on the floor, Ms. Jackson-Lee, just to make sure that we prepare the Members for the decisions that have to be made. 
   We talk about bipartisanship a lot, and I have my information here to talk about some of the votes that we have moved on this floor in a bipartisan nature, and I know I will have it in a minute, that kind of set a tone through this Chamber that we can work together, Madam Speaker, when the ideas are good and when they are sound. 
   And I know that the budget is probably one of the most partisan votes that we have taken in past Congresses, especially the last two that I have been involved in, Mr. Ryan. But the way the President's budget has been drawn up, with cuts of 20 percent to first responder grants and high-threat and high-density areas, and a cut in State grants as relates to training and buying equipment and conducting exercises for their first responders by 64 percent, for many of the Members on both sides of the aisle that talk a lot about the war on terror, we have to make sure we are prepared. 
   All of these things, all of these speeches that people come to the floor and make, Members of Congress, this budget is not in the spirit of those speeches. And I think it is important that those Members on both sides of the aisle, and I would say mainly with my Republican colleagues, that they start preparing their leadership now on the things that they can vote for. And I know that making tax cuts permanent for the superbillionaires is not something that is going to fly back home. 
   Now, I was thinking about staying in the majority always, which is not a bad idea, but if that was my paramount reason for being here on this floor, then I wouldn't say out loud that they need to start telling their minority party, on the Republican side of the aisle, that there is things that I have to vote for. I am not willing to cut veteran benefits. I am not willing to not do the things that we need to do for the children of America. I am not willing to not give the middle class a tax cut or give billionaires a tax cut. I am not willing to cut local government assistance, especially in the area of homeland security and other areas of law enforcement. I am not willing to do those things because I don't think my constituents will send me back to Congress. 
   That is the kind of discussion they need to be having with their leadership, because one thing that I have seen, Madam Speaker, especially with the past votes that we have taken on the minimum wage, on taking big-time subsidies from oil companies, on the whole issue of cutting tuition, on the issue of a few of the other packages that we passed, but on the main issue as it relates to how we are going to move from this point of pay as you go, I have noticed that the leadership on the Republican side have voted opposite of the majority of the Members of the House, with some Republicans joining us on those votes, or we are voting together. I hate to say joining us, because it seems like it is something that was a last-minute thought.     
   No, they were great ideas, and they need to be passed, and they were passed overwhelmingly.  
   But as it relates to this budget, this is going to be one of the most important documents that we pass in the 110th Congress' first session, and I think it is important that Members start talking to their leadership now and saying this to the Republican side about the votes that they cannot and the votes that they will take. 
   Now, I have watched in the 109th Congress the moderate Members on the Republican side who went to their leadership and tried to make things happen, and you know something, if the leadership would have listened to some of the moderate Members of the Republican Party on the other side of the aisle, maybe, just maybe, the majority on the Democratic side would not be as wide as it is. 
   Now, the American people want us to move as one, not just as Democrats and Republicans. They want us to move in a responsible way that will lead this country in a new direction; not in a Democratic direction, not in a Republican direction, not in an Independent direction, but in a new direction. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Which is good and as American as apple pie and Chevy trucks and what have you. But I think it is important that we say this out loud, because when we get around budget time, there is a lot of interesting things that are said on the floor. Some Members are even gaveled down for some of these statements because they try to justify a good or bad vote. 
   With the continuing resolution that was passed, we saw a little spike in Members having to reflect back on to the rules, the Parliamentarian running around the floor saying, you cannot say that, you cannot do this. Before we get all animated and excited about this budget, I just want to make sure that the Members understand that you have to start having that discussion with your party leaders, especially on the Republican side of the aisle. 
   Now, let us just look at this. On the 9/11 Commission, 68 Republicans voted with 231 Democrats to do what the bipartisan Commission said we should do in protecting America, but the shocking part is that 128 Republicans decided not to vote with the majority of the Members of the House, Republicans and Democrats. What is going on there? The American people cannot understand that overwhelmingly. 
   Minimum Wage Act, 82 Republicans voted with the majority of the supermajority and every last Democrat, 233, voted to give the American people a pay raise after years and years and years, and as you can see here, Madam Speaker, over the years under the Republican Congress, Member of Congress did not have a problem in giving themselves a pay raise until the Democratic majority put a stop to it, saying that we will not agree to a pay raise until the American people get one. But 116 Republicans voted against it for people who were making $5.15 an hour. It reminds me of the President saying, let us make those tax cuts permanent for superbillionaires, and let us forget about the middle class, and let us cut programs on the local level for the most fragile Americans. 
   Stem cell research, again bipartisan vote. A number of Republicans voted against it. Medicare prescription drug price negotiating, 24 Republicans joined 231 Democrats; 170 Republicans voted against it. College Student Loan Relief Act, 232 Democrats voted for it, 124 Republicans voted for it, supermajority Members of the House, 71 Republicans, hard-core holdouts, on the bipartisan spirit. Held out again on creating long-term energy alternatives for the Nation Act; 228 Democrats voted for it, 36 Republicans voted for it, 159 Republicans voted against it. 
   I am saying all of this, and I am not trying to speak fast on this, Madam Speaker, I am just saying that if we are going to come together as a country, and we are going to work in a bipartisan way, now here I am in the majority saying that it is important that we work in a bipartisan way. 
   Madam Speaker, I know the officers of the House who have witnessed many of these 30-something sessions that we have had in the minority. They were like some of them Tivo'd it when we were on break because they just heard it so many times, and they wanted to hear it again. If I have said it once, I have said it 30 times: Bipartisanship can only be allowed when the majority allows it. 
   Now we have the will and the desire by the Speaker of the House of Representatives that has said that she wants to move in a bipartisan way, and we still have Republicans that are saying, no, we do not; we want to be different, even when we are wrong. And that is not the philosophy that the American people have embraced. I do not care if it is a Republican voter or Independent voter or Democratic voter, the American spirit will prevail, and that is what happened last November. 
   So we have some individuals that are saying, we are willing to continue to hold on to the old way versus moving in a new direction. I am not trying to be offensive. I am just saying, I am reading the Congressional Record and the vote chart. I am trying to encourage folks to work in a bipartisan way. So let us have the discussion now in the Budget Committee, in the Ways and Means Committee, and discussions in committees of jurisdictions standing. Let us have those arguments, but let us come together on the fiber of the budget and for us to be fiscally sound and for us to be able to move this country in a new direction. 
   That has nothing to do with what the Republican leadership may believe what is right or the Democrat leadership believes what is right. It is what is right for America. 
   So we are willing to do that. Pollwise, the American people are on the side of doing things that we are trying to outline here and that we are speaking against in this budget, and as we move through that process, I look forward to not only fruitful debate, but I look forward to a paradigm shift in the minority side, in a number of double-digit, hopefully triple-digit, Republicans voting for a budget that comes before this floor that this House hammers out. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I thank Mr. Ryan for doing such an outstanding job. I thought Mr. Murphy had the assignment, but I can see you have taken responsibility to do that. 
   Madam Speaker, we would like to thank the Speaker and the majority leader and majority whip and others for allowing the 30-Something Working Group to come to the floor once again. It was an honor to address the House of Representatives. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (RECOGNIZING AND HONORING THE LIFETIME CONTRIBUTIONS OF RAFAEL JOS&#201; DIAZ-BALART -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to come before the House today in support of Resolution 131, to recognize Rafael Jos&#233; Diaz-Balart, grandfather of two of our great colleagues here in this great House, Lincoln and Mario Diaz-Balart. 
   Rafael Diaz-Balart was a native of Santiago de Cuba and completed his law degree at the University of Havana in 1919. Soon after he joined the bar, Rafael Diaz-Balart became the municipal judge in the city of Palma Soriano, where he served with great distinction. Four years later, he earned a post of civil law notary in the town of Banes in eastern Cuba, where he was later then elected city council president and mayor of the city. 
   Upon his election to the Cuban House of Representatives, he founded the law firm of Diaz-Balart, Diaz-Balart and Amador in Havana, with his son, Rafael Lincoln, Mario and Lincoln's father, and Rolando Amador. Years later, he earned the post Land Registrar, a prominent achievement for lawyers in Cuba. 
   After the 1959 coup, Rafael Diaz-Balart lived in exile and became a proud citizen of the United States. In exile, Rafael Jos&#233; Diaz-Balart entered law school at the University of Madrid, and in 1965, at age 66, earned his second law degree. 
   While Rafael Diaz-Balart had many great accomplishments, his greatest of all may have been the honor and sense of duty that he instilled his son Rafael Lincoln and his four grandsons: Lincoln and Mario, whom I proudly serve with here in the House; also Jos&#233;, who is a prominent journalist; and Rafael, a successful businessman in Miami. 
   This week Florida International University Law School will be dedicated in the name of Rafael Diaz-Balart Hall, a tribute to their grandfather. The keynote address will be given by Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader-Ginsburg, and there will be countless Federal, State and local municipal elected officials. 
   This honor to the Diaz-Balart family is a testimony to the American Dream. Here is a family in a bloodline that left Cuban exile, but came to the United States to make this country better. 
   The entire family has contributed not only to the south Florida community, but the entire State of Florida, and also this great country of ours, which is the United States of America. 
   I think the House is full within its right to be able to recognize this great American for what he was able to do in his contributions to those that not only serve here in the House of Representatives, but serve in the fields of journalism and in business. I am honored to bring this to the floor at this time. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (RECOGNIZING AND HONORING THE LIFETIME CONTRIBUTIONS OF RAFAEL JOS&#201; DIAZ-BALART -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is very interesting when you look at this resolution, because it is the American Dream. Some Americans don't have the opportunity to have a resolution brought before the House of Representatives honoring the memory of their bloodline, their father and their grandfather and their entire family. But I can tell you that, in the words of my grandmother, saying ``isn't God good,'' this resolution displays the American Dream. 
   As we start to look at this resolution, as we start to reflect on the contributions of the Diaz-Balart family to the United States of America, to find that it not only didn't start totally with Rafael Jos&#233; Diaz-Balart, but he had a lot to do with the pilgrimage to the United States of America and the contributions that his grandchildren have made and that his son made in this society, that have made America better. It has brought us together in many ways. 
   Understanding a story of some of the issues facing America right now, as some folks may feel about recent immigrants to this country, this is a perfect example to set up on the pedestal of how those that come to our country with the will and desire to serve this country, not to pull from this country, but to serve on behalf of this country, what can happen. 
   We have four individuals that are the grandchildren of the very man that we are recognizing here in the House of Representatives, this great country of ours, individuals fought to allow us to  salute one flag. Two are contributing to this country, serving at the same time in the U.S. House of Representatives in this Congress and in the last Congress and the Congress before that, and one is at the top of journalism as it relates to Spanish language international television, and another is a prominent businessman in South Florida. I think this is a time that the House is rightfully recognizing these great Americans for what they were able to do. 
   Mr. Speaker, to Mr. Diaz-Balart and to Mr. Keller and to all of my colleagues here, it is a great honor to bring this before the House, because I believe everyone can understand the reason why we are here, and it is justified. But this could be one of many examples of families that have contributed to our country. I know they will continue to do so, and I know their children's children will continue to do so, and this moment in history will just be one beacon of light to show how appreciative we are for not only the Diaz-Balart family for their contributions but other families like them. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (RECOGNIZING AND HONORING THE LIFETIME CONTRIBUTIONS OF RAFAEL JOS&#201; DIAZ-BALART -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, in closing, I just would like to thank Mr. Miller of the Education Committee, also the majority leader's office and the Speaker's office for allowing us to bring this resolution so that it can be timely for the dedication this weekend when the good people of Florida and this great country and the Supreme Court Justice will honor the memory of Rafael Jos&#233; Diaz-Balart at the naming of the hall of the law school. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. It is an honor to be here on the floor. 
   As you know, in the 30-Something Working Group, we come to the floor to share information not only with the Members, but also with the American people. And I think it's very, very important, now that we are in our second day of reconvening after the new year, to wish everyone a happy new year, and hopefully we will be very productive on behalf of this great country of ours. 
   A lot has happened, Mr. Speaker, since my last time on the floor. The 30-Something Working Group had the opportunity to adjourn the House for the year 2007. One of the Members of your class actually had the opportunity to hit the gavel, Ms. YVETTE CLARKE. 
   We left, and a lot took place. There are a lot of Presidential politics that have taken place since then on both sides of the aisle, Republican and Democrat. There has been a lot said. There has been a lot of media coverage on different issues. But I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, the issue of the economy and the issue of the war in Iraq continues to bubble up to the top. The issue of health care continues to bubble to the top. 
   And also, as we reflect on what took place last year, the closing part of last year, it was very frustrating for many Americans because one may think that we would have accomplished, when I say ``we,'' those of us here in Washington, D.C., I'm including the President of the United States and the Congress, to achieve some sort of sensible plan as it relates to Iraq, and that was not achieved. More accountability, because we have control of the Congress, and I say ``we,'' Democrats have control of the Congress, small majority, but control. I had a chance to put some accountability measures in an Armed Services mark and the Foreign Affairs legislation. We were able to do that, but very limited because the President continues to hold on to the 40 Republicans solid that he needs to withstand a congressional override when he vetoes legislation that the American people would like to see enacted. 
   Even though it had bipartisan support, many pieces of legislation dealing with Iraq, also dealing with a number of other issues that are important to the American people, the President was able to use his veto pen for the first time, many times, and not for the very first time, but for the first time that he has been consistent in doing so. Sometimes it actually has sent the country backwards when we start dealing with issues that we're facing right now. 
   I come to the floor with a new spirit and hopefully a new outlook in the year 2008 that we will have a better way of working in a bipartisan way here in this House and in the Senate and working with the President. We can't say that there has not been reaching out, especially on behalf of Democrats to Republicans, here in the Congress. I can tell you that we have had an opportunity to work with President Bush and also congressional Republicans in talking about various issues that are facing our economy. We came in and had discussions with Secretary Paulson, who is the Secretary of the Treasury, about the economy. You will be hearing a lot more from him, Mr. Speaker and Members, as we start to approach the date that the President is going to release his budget, which will be in the early part of next month. I believe it will be the 4th. On February 4 he will be releasing his budget, as the date stands now. Well, between now and then there's a lot that has to happen. And we're just 12 short days, I must add, Mr. Speaker, from the President giving the countdown to the State of the Union. Those are the days remaining, the 12 days. 
   I can tell you, also, Mr. Speaker and Members, that it's important what the President says at the podium just below where you are, Mr. Speaker; what he says is going to be very, very important. Not only will the United States and the people that work every day, those that defend our country that are abroad, but other world leaders will be paying attention to what the President has to say. And I'm pretty sure he is going to have to say a lot. 
   In past State of the Unions, and this will be my sixth opportunity to be a part of this Congress and to witness a State of the Union in this Chamber, there have been some highlights and there have been a lot of disappointments. And I think that we have to plow through that now, Mr. Speaker, in a bipartisan way in making sure we do what we must do on behalf of the country. 
   I say that in the spirit that House Democrats in December had an economic forum, talking about the economy, talking about what we need to stimulate this economy. You've heard a lot of proposals on the campaign trail from Republicans and Democrats and Democrats and Republicans. And everyone has a great plan. But I think that it's important that those of us that are elected now to govern, that we govern, because I don't think the American people can wait until 2009 to get accountability and to get relief from this government. 
   Saying that, I want to commend the administration, the Bush administration, that they released $450 million from the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program. And I can tell you that it's very, very important to be able to assist some of our seniors and many of our low-income. But this money was made available because the Congress put $2.6 billion into that particular program and funding it in an  appropriations bill that passed in December and increased it by $400 million. So really, when you look at it, Mr. Speaker, thanks to not only a Democratic-led Congress, but also some Republicans that did vote in the affirmative to pass this work product out of this Congress, out of the $2.6 billion, within that we increased it by $400 million, the President released $450 million. I hope that we can continue in this spirit, Mr. Speaker, on behalf of Americans that are being hit the hardest in this economy as we move forward. 
   So many times that the administration, the Bush administration, and so many times within that 40 that we 
   talk about that the President has been holding on to, on many issues that the Congress and Republicans here in the House, and we've passed bills with bipartisan support, are able to hold on to not being overridden. And I think that it's time, it's high time, especially for those Americans that are concerned about what happened on Wall Street yesterday, I believe it's 45 points down now, I don't know how it's going to close today, but I think it's very, very important that we look at what is happening right now, what's happening with the mortgage crisis right now in this country, and what we must do by leadering up and reaching across the aisle to one another to make it happen. 
   We have achieved that, Mr. Speaker, in the first session. When I say ``we,'' I always used to say in the 109th Congress and the 108th Congress, bipartisanship is only allowed when the majority allows it to happen. And I can say that what I witnessed in the first session of the 110th Congress, bipartisanship was achieved because you can see that there were a number of votes, major votes on major pieces of legislation, that was bipartisan in double digit numbers, and sometimes three digit numbers, of Republicans voting in favor of major pieces of legislation that has passed off this floor and was sent to the President. And in some cases, the President vetoed it because we fell short of achieving the 40 that he always counts on to help him withstand a veto. 
   I think it's important, when we start talking about the letter that the Speaker and Senator Reid, the leader in the Senate, wrote to the President on the 11th of this month talking about energy, talking about gas. And I think it's important that the President responds to that, because as the President is flying to Saudi Arabia and other places, really talking with those leaders because of this very issue here, Mr. Speaker. We've gone from January 22, 2001 per gallon price for gas $1.47 over today's average of $3.07 per gallon. Now, Mr. Speaker, some Members may be saying and some staff may be saying, and I know the American people are saying, excuse me, Congressman, you must have the wrong number with that $3.07 because just earlier today I've seen gas not only here in Washington, D.C., but back in my district that has been hit real hard in Florida, upwards of $3.33, and that's just for regular unleaded, octane 87. So when you think about it, especially those small business men and women that may have an F-10 or what have you, that comes up to a lot of dollars. 
   And when you think about gas prices, even for those that use mass transit and those that are driving hybrids and other vehicles that are high mileage vehicles, it hits them, too. But think about when you go to the grocery store. That means that milk is going to cost more because of transportation costs. Everything will go up. And that's when we start talking about an economy that's out of reach for Americans that are making just the same as they were making last year or the year before. 
   And speaking of a bipartisan victory, Mr. Speaker and Members, the passage of the minimum wage bill that some in this Congress said over their dead body will they see the minimum wage increase, that it was increased. And at the same time, because of the respect that the majority here in this Congress has for small businesses, that's the backbone of our economy, that we were able to also put a package onto the minimum wage bill that also provided some relief to small business people. 
   But I think it's important, Mr. Speaker, and I won't digress into how we got to this point because I think that's self-explanatory. I think we know that governance has a lot to do with it, and we're trying to bring about that kind of change with the passage of the energy bill that this House passed in the first session of Congress. But $3.07 is something that we must address and that we have to address. And until we get to the point, Mr. Speaker, that Republicans are able to work along with Democratic leadership, Democratic chairmen, Democratic leaders, and not really bringing about the difference between us and them and making a political statement, but kind of being under the same banner of ``we want to work together.'' And a good step towards that direction, Mr. Speaker, was today, seeing the Republican leader stand with Speaker Pelosi and also with the majority leader and the whip on the Republican side and so on and so on, it's good to see that. I hope that that relationship continues. I hope that that effort of coming together continues.     
   Definitely, the majority has shown, the Democrats have shown, we have shown, that we are willing and able to work in a bipartisan way as it relates to putting together a stimulus package that would work on behalf of all Americans. And I hope that the President shares in that theme and that notion that the American people would like to see. And we do know the American people would like to see us work in a bipartisan way. 
   Speaking of that, Mr. Speaker, I talked about the Dow closing yesterday, but today the market finished 34 points down, and I can tell you that it's been a roller coaster day. And many Americans don't have a great understanding of how important the opening and closing of the market is, but it has a lot to do with our economy and it also will make investors more fearful of going out and doing some of the things they have been doing. So we as the government have to step up and rise to the occasion on behalf of not only the American people but also in making sure that we stand up to keep our economy going for small and medium-sized and large businesses. 
   I think, Mr. Speaker, as we continue to head down the days to the State of the Union, we know that there will be a lot of things said, and we know that the American people are going to be paying more attention than they were paying even last year to the President's State of the Union for the following reason: States, come this February 5, Super Tuesday, will stand in judgment of those that will replace the President of the United States because of term limits, will be the nominee on both sides, and they will be paying attention to the issues. Well, I want to make sure that my colleagues know and all of my colleagues know in Congress and also in the executive branch, those of us that are ``working to make this government better,'' that we understand our responsibility, because I am a little concerned, Mr. Speaker, that some may feel that one can play Presidential politics as real Americans are going through real life issues, and I think that it's important that we don't allow that season to seep into this Chamber or seep into the Senate or seep into the President's office to logjam what we must do on behalf of the American people. It's okay to take a stand and say, This is what I would like to have, but it's another thing when one goes out of their way to stop progress, and I think that progress is something that we must work on very hard. 
   I want to, Mr. Speaker, share a couple of more points with you tonight. I think it's important that we look at the fact that we are still in a very difficult situation and we look at putting together this stimulus package, and I am speaking to the administration and those that are coming up with the budget, the Office of Management and Budget over in the President's executive branch. And also as agencies start to move their budget requests forward, there is a number of Members of Congress that are concerned about that very number to the far end, $1.19 trillion over the last 6 years, and the Federal debt continuing to rise, compared to the 224-year history of this country, from 1776 to 2000, $1.01 trillion. Forty-two Presidents weren't able to come up with that number, and we are about to double that number now. A lot of that number was brought about up until  2006, and we have worked very hard to bring that number down in 2007. 
   And as you know, there has been a great discussion on the pay-as-you-go mandate that we have put forth. And I know that the AMT, the alternative minimum tax, to avoid a tax increase on so many Americans was held to the last minute and Members had to vote to borrow the money to offset that. I'm hoping that as we move forth in the stimulus package and as we move forth in other tax reform packages, and I am speaking to my colleagues on the Republican side of the aisle that really strongly supported borrowing the money in both the House and Senate, I think that's important that we come together and think about not only the future but the present. 
   We used to talk about this debt dealing with the future, our children and our grandchildren. Well, guess what? The debt that's being accumulated now and the posture that this country is in right now in the fiscal sense today is dealing with our economy now, is dealing with how we are respected by other countries now. We owe more countries more money than we ever owed them in the history of the Republic. So that means that we are in a position now financially that we have never been in before. And so the President takes 8-day tours to other parts of the world, which he has done, and I think any world leader must do that. Everyone can't come here to the United States. You have to go visit them and take part in that cultural exchange and discussion. But I think it's also important, Mr. Speaker, when we think about that, when the Commander in Chief goes down those steps off of Air Force One, that that world leader should not be looking at that Commander in Chief and saying, First of all, you owe me money. You owe my country money. You borrowed money from us. That should not be the thought in that world leader's head. The vision that that world leader should have is, A, that I have communications with this world leader. We have a relationship. We have one that we can work together in making this world safer and also looking at our global economy. As this chart shows here, and you've seen it before, the largest foreign holders of U.S. national debt. When the Japanese leaders come to the United States or we see them abroad, any of our diplomats or what have you, they are thinking $644.3 billion and counting, and this number is higher now. 
   China as of 11-05 was at $249.8 billion. China now is at 349.6, and that number is a little higher than that now, and I know I need to get this chart updated. But I think when we look at that and we say that we want China to do things better than they are doing as it relates to providing products that will be safe for U.S. consumers, but as we look at China, I can't help but think about the conversation I had earlier today with my colleague TIM RYAN from Ohio, who said that he has had 1,100 jobs leave in the last 2 months from Youngstown, Ohio, or around that Niles, Ohio, area. But meanwhile, not only is China the benefactor of those jobs in many cases, but they also have the opportunity to use those dollars that they have 
   accumulated off of commerce or what have you and use those dollars to buy our debt. So that's a win-win situation. Not only am I the recipient of your jobs that used to be your jobs, but I am also the recipient of being able to buy your debt where you have to pay me back with interest. 
   So as we look at this economic stimulus, you have to think about what's happening, and that's the reason why I hope that the President responds to Speaker Pelosi's letter and also Majority Leader Reid's letter, which if he doesn't respond to it, I will have it on the floor to ask the President or someone over at the administration to respond to it because these are very trying times for everyday Americans. And it's not trying times just for Democrats or independents or Republicans. We're talking about all Americans and what they are facing right now. 
   I was about to put this chart up, but let me just point out over here, OPEC nations, that's Saudi Arabia. So when the President is over there meeting with the leadership in Saudi Arabia, with the King, Prince, and what have you, they can't help but think, You owe me money. You owe Saudi Arabia money. So when you look at this debt that is record breaking at the $1.19 trillion, that's how we're getting there. We are getting there with an administration putting forth budgets that are still borrowing money and also holding the Congress hostage and getting us into a position to where now the American people will have to pay through the nose or lose tax benefits to continue that philosophy. 
   So I think the key would be a more bipartisan effort here in this House and in the Senate to pass a good stimulus package, hopefully in concert with the President. But if it's not in concert with the President and the administration, and Secretary Paulson is going to have a lot to do with that and a lot to say about that, the Secretary of the Treasury, and if that does not happen, since there have been committee hearings and there have been Budget and Ways and Means and Financial Services and other committee meetings and the American people have had an opportunity to hear hours and hours of debate on the committee level and also here in this Chamber, this may very well be a sign to put together a stimulus package and at least stand next to our work product and not whither under the President's threat of a veto. If he does veto it, that means we have to go back to the drawing board if there are 40 Members that are willing to stand with the President. 
   I would also add that in the 30-Something Working Group, we always take an opportunity to show illustrations of what we're talking about here. This is the veto where 40-plus Republicans went down to the White House and stood with the President when we put requirements on the administration to make sure that we have accountability measures on the Iraq spending bill. And this was something that the American people wanted, something that I believe had a big part of Democrats taking over the Congress, and we found ourselves in a situation being denied that opportunity to bring that kind of accountability to the issue in Iraq and the spending in Iraq and the lack of accountability in Iraq with 40 of our Republican colleagues plus going down to the White House saying, We stand with you Mr. President. 
   Now, I pulled that picture out just to say that it did happen and that it can happen. Do we want that to happen again? No. Can we work these issues out before we get to the point of the President saying, ``I have to veto,'' and a bus has to pull out in front of the Capitol and just over 40 Republicans get on that bus and go down to the White House and say, We stand with you, Mr. President, and God bless America and apple pie and Chevy trucks? We don't necessarily need to do that. We can head that off if we know that we need to work in a bipartisan way, and we are asking for that to happen here on the majority side.     
   The State of the Union is a very, very important time for the country, and also for the world. I took the opportunity today to pull some of the statements from the 2007 State of the Union. I think that it's important for us to look at what has transpired and what has not transpired; just some of the things that were said that have not come to reality or have not come to being a part of Federal law. 
   I think when you start dealing with issues such as health care, there's good lofty words that can be used, and during the President's talk on health care he said, a future hope and opportunity requires that all of the citizens have affordable and available health care. 
   The Republican record on that has been the President's tax deduction plan, which would do nothing to reinvest a majority of the 47 million Americans in his plan. And he also makes the health care problem even worse, a plan of raising taxes on many middle-class families and also undermining the employer-provided insurance health program over the next 6 to 8 years. 
   Now, I think it's important that we look at this issue, and we try to look at this issue, talking about a Democratic approach of dealing with that health care, and starting this issue with our very newly born citizens to this great country of ours through the SCHIP program. And our plan, looking at the direction that we were heading in, we were working to increase the availability of health care insurance to children, those that are in need the most,  and that was through the SCHIP program. And we were not able to do that, even after one, two, three attempts to get that SCHIP bill past the President's desk without the veto that he actually carried out and without a continued threat of a veto if we were to send it. 
   We did reauthorize the bill for another year, but that is not addressing many of the issues that are facing Americans right now, and I think as we start to look at this issue, Mr. Speaker and Members, we have to look at it from the standpoint of we have to start somewhere. What better place to start than dealing with our children? I think that it's important that we move in that direction. 
   Fiscal discipline and the economy. We talked about that, and some of that will be placed in this State of the Union, I am sure. I don't think the President can come in here in another 12 days or so and not talk about the economy. I mean it's almost like an elephant standing 3 feet in front of me, and I'm saying, I don't see the elephant. I don't see what you're talking about. That is the situation right now in dealing with the economy. 
   Another slogan issue, not really a plan, but a plan that's released nine times out of 10 in the budget or a piece of legislation, the President says, together we can balance the budget. 
   Well, let's look at that statement. ``Together we can balance the budget.'' Well, over the last 6 years President Bush has not put forth one balanced budget plan. First you have got to start with that. You have got to put on the table the work product that will actually balance the budget. 
   I think that when you look at historic numbers, where we are now, we turned a $5.6 trillion surplus into more than a $3 trillion deficit. The fastest growing item in the budget is interest payments to foreign countries that I have put up on this chart. It may not be the most exciting thing in the world, but I can tell you, once we start to really start moving down and paying down this debt, the goalpost continues to move further and further away because of the fact that we are not working together to make sure that we can balance this budget. The President said, Together we can balance the budget. Well, just because he says it doesn't necessarily mean that it's going to happen. 
   So when we start to move down the track, Mr. Speaker, in closing, looking at the economy; looking at the fact that the American people expect for us to work together, which we should; looking at the fact that this is not the centerpiece or peak of the political season, but there's a lot being said on both sides, Democrat and Republican, and I think it's important for us to look at the past, learn from the past, hopefully for a brighter future, looking at the past, what has happened and what has not happened, and looking at a brighter future. 
   The first session of the 110th Congress was a good session and a lot was done in the first session. I think it's important too, when we look at the past and start looking towards the future, in the first session of the 110th Congress, the 9/11 Commission recommendations to protect America from terrorism, passed, signed into law; the largest college student aid expansion since 1944; the GI Bill, that saved average students $4,400, that is in their pockets, passed, signed into law; the first minimum wage increase in a decade, there's a pay raise for 33 million Americans, that comes in handy now, passed, signed into law; Innovation agenda promoting 21st century jobs, passed, put into law. That is coming back towards making sure we are able to stay competitive with other nations. 
   The tough lobbying and ethics reform bill that was just held by independent reform groups, passed, signed into law; reconstruction and assistance of the Gulf Coast devastated hurricane areas, passed, signed into law. That was a long fought effort that was something where the people in the gulf coast asked for fairness, equity, and attention from this government. We were able to bring that to fruition through the first session of the 110th Congress, which is a Democratic Congress. 
   I can tell you there are a number of issues that have not been resolved, that were attempted to get resolved, but I think that some of those issues, we look at the expansion of research of stem cells, passed, was not signed by the President. Also, health care for 10 million children of working families, passed, not signed into law. Vetoed. 
   We also look at the other major, major pieces of legislation that were even threatened by veto that were stalled in the legislative process because the President issued a veto threat. 
   I think that as we look at the past success that we have had in a bipartisan way, and as we look at the future of what the American people are going through now and what they will be going through in the coming months, I think now more than ever in any other time since I have been in Congress, and it's now my third term, that the American people need us. The American people need us to work together like no other time in recent history. 
   Some forecasters have said this is going to be a pretty bad economic downturn. A lot of folks are using the R word, the recession word. We have to work together so that the American people don't suffer, and we will work together, especially on the majority side, in hopefully a bipartisan spirit to allow that to happen. But there has to be the will and the desire on behalf of the minority party, which is the Republican Party here in this Congress, and the spirit and desire on behalf of the administration to get something done. 
   I think the President should be more motivated than any other time in his Presidency to make this right and to be what he said he was in his first campaign, that he is a uniter and not a divider, a uniter and not a divider. I think the American people need to see that played out in this last year that he will be serving as President of the United States. 
   Once again, the majority in the House and Senate, the only way we can achieve bipartisanship is if the majority allows it. We know that the majority has the will and the desire to allow that to happen. The question is, the President and the administration, do they have the will and desire to allow bipartisanship to work between the legislative branch and between the executive branch? 
   I hope and I pray, especially on behalf of those that are punching in and punching out every day, on behalf of those that their only income is a Social Security check and what their family assists them with to keep the lights on, keep food in the refrigerator, I hope on behalf of those that are in harm's way, fighting on behalf of our country in Afghanistan and also in Iraq, and those that are deployed in military installations throughout the world, that their mother or their family members are able to survive here under this economy and the direction that it's headed in. 
   It's going to take bipartisanship. That means we need to rise up above Democrat and Republican, rise up over our differences, and stand on behalf of the American people who are counting on us. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, it's always an honor to come to the floor and address the Members. The 30-Something Working Group will continue to work hard on behalf of the common good, and also bipartisanship in the House and in the Senate, and hopefully with the administration. But we ask for the Members, if they have any questions or anyone has any questions or would like to share a story, that they can contact us at 30-Somethingdems@mail.House.gov, or just visit www.speaker.gov/30something, and we would love to have a conversation with you. Also if you wish to share your stories about what is actually happening in your hometown or happening with your business and what it will mean to you for us to work in a bipartisan way. 
   I think that is the spirit we want to pick up and the spirit that we want to have so that we can get something done on behalf of the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Reclaiming my time, when I came over, it wasn't like can we pause for a minute and let me catch my breath. I mean, I was actually anchoring this special order and sharing with the Members the great work that has been done. 
   I talked about the bipartisan vote that we took today on the whistleblower legislation. And, Mr. Ryan, I did go to the gym today to make sure that I am in the right shape to be a Member of this House and serve as an example of making sure that you take care of yourself, that you do the right thing, and you live a long time. 
   So, Mr. Ryan, thank you for being concerned about my health care needs and making sure that you came down and allowed me to catch my breath. But I am so happy to see you, sir, because as a member of the Appropriations Committee, I am honored just to be in the same Chamber with you, sir. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, I am glad, because you are a member of the Appropriations Committee. Let me just say this, Mr. Ryan. Putting everything to the side here that we have been talking about, again, I am glad, because you are here as a member of the Appropriations Committee. 
   We actually have some Members, Mr. Ryan, that are concerned about the kind of leadership that this Congress is putting forth on behalf of the men and women in uniform and the men and women that wore the uniform and their families. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. That is right. In full effect. You have here U.S. Troops Readiness, Veterans Healthcare, and Iraq Accountability Act. Expanding funding for veterans healthcare and hospitals. What is wrong with that? Nothing. 
   The Bush administration must meet military standards for troop readiness. Mr. Ryan, this is the DoD policy as it relates to troop readiness. The Congress had nothing to do with the policy. The Department of Defense came up with the policy. 
   So basically what we are saying, Mr. Speaker, through this act, follow your policy, because it is in the best interests of the American people and the troops that are in harm's way. 
   What is in that policy? Making sure troops have what they need when they are deployed. What else? Making sure we have a military that is ready to respond at a moment's notice when we need them. We will go deeper into that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, losing kids? We are losing 47-year-old Reservists. We are losing granddads in some instances that are still serving our country, Mr. Speaker, in the Guard, in the Reserve, active duty. 
   When you look at this, again, the Iraq government must meet the Bush benchmarks for reform. 
   Mr. Speaker, once again, this is not what the Democratic Congress put benchmarks on the Iraqi government for. The President of the United States of America, the Commander in Chief, marched down this aisle, walked that way and went up there to that rostrum right under where you are standing, Mr. Speaker, and said if they don't meet the standards and do X, Y and Z, then we are not going to be there forever. What is wrong with following the leadership, especially when you talk about accountability? 
   What is different this time, Mr. Speaker, is when the President has made those statements in the past, he had a rubber stamp Congress willing to do anything that he wanted them to do. But now you have a Congress that put forth legislation that will allow Members of the minority party, the Republican Party, Mr. Ryan, to vote with Democrats, for accountability, there is that word again; oversight, there is another word we use all the time; and to head in a new direction as it relates to Iraq. We have said that 100 times. 
   I think that is important, making sure that strategic redeployment of U.S. troops in combat by 2008, and reforming military efforts on Afghanistan and the fight on terrorism. What is wrong with all of that? 
   If I can, Mr. Ryan, I want to just talk about how the American people are way ahead of the Bush administration on this issue and the reason why we had this big transition in leadership here in the Congress back in September. 
   Nearly six out of 10 Americans want U.S. troops to withdraw from Iraq by 2008 or sooner. That is a CNN poll of 3-13-07. 
   Fifty-two percent think the United States should set a timetable for withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq. That is a CBS-New York Times poll on 3-12-07. 
   Sixty-seven percent of those polled by NBC-Wall Street Journal disapprove of the way the President is handling the situation in Iraq. That is an NBC-Wall Street Journal poll, 3-9-07. 
   I can go on and on and on, Mr. Ryan, of how the American people are with us as it relates to making sure that we do the right thing. 
   When we are in Congress and we are here, we are not generals, we are not in a forward area, Mr. Speaker. We have Members that have never worn a uniform, not even in school when they were coming up. We are not in the Armed Forces. Some of us are. Some of us are Reservists. Some of us are Guardsmen, Guardspeople, women, what have you. 
   But we have been elected to be Members of Congress to carry out the things that we talked about, oversight, accountability, being fiscally responsible, moving the country in a new direction, coming and voting on behalf of our constituents and the American people. 
   So, brave speeches on the floor about how Members support the troops. No, I support the troops more than you. No, I have a tattoo on my arm saying I support the troops. No, I have raised money back home. 
   That is fine. That is all good and dandy. Come to the floor and say what you want to say. 
   But when it comes down to it, where are the benchmarks as it relates to over $500 billion that has been spent on the war and $100 billion-plus that is going to be authorized sometime in the very near future? Where are the accountability measures? They are there to make sure you meet the benchmarks. 
   I know you can go further into that. But the 97 hearings to date, it is unprecedented in the past Congress and the Congress before that, Mr. Ryan. We have 
   been here for the last two Congresses, and I can guarantee you that 97 hearings at this point in the Congress did not happen. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Before the gentleman goes to the memo, you said this thing is not just about Iraq. 
   Let me just say very quickly, again, you know here in the 30-something Working Group, we love, we don't like, we love third party validators. We love it, Mr. Speaker. We can't get enough of it. It fires us up. We just love it. 
   Here is the deal. Requiring the President to honor the standards of the Department of Defense set for troop readiness, training, equipment before sending troops into battle, 70 percent favor requiring U.S. troops returning from Iraq to have at least 1 year in the U.S. before being redeployed to Iraq. That is a Gallup Poll, USA Today, 3-6-07. It is not a poll we did. This is just a poll that these news organizations have held. 
   Holding Iraqi government to the same standards for progress that the President outlined in announcing the escalation of troops. Seventy-seven percent favored requiring U.S. troops to come home from Iraq if Iraqi leaders failed to meet the promises to reduce the violence there. That is the Gallup Poll-USA Today. 
   This is very, very, very important. Providing urgency needed to support addressing the military medical care crisis at Walter Reed and other hospitals, 76 percent of Americans do not think the Bush administration has done enough to be responsible to take care of the needs of our men and women that are in uniform. 
   Mr. Ryan, the bottom line is that this is not a political speech that we are on the floor giving. This is reality. This is governance. This is oversight and this is accountability. 
   And for Members, Mr. Speaker, who feel that we shouldn't be venturing off into the area of leadership, maybe they didn't pay attention to what took place last November. I would say to some of my friends on the Republican side, because if this was political, I would keep it a secret. But you know, Mr. Ryan, we always talk about issues that may be detrimental to the Democratic forward progress of gaining more seats in the House. 
   If Republican Members want to vote on being with their, quote-unquote, leadership that has them in the minority right now, because they use catch words like well, you know, we don't need to make decisions because the President is making decisions and it is not our place to do it. Oh, we don't have to have accountability measures within the appropriations bill, within the emergency supplemental, because we need to leave the flexibility for Secretary Rumsfeld and unnamed individuals in the White House and unnamed folks over in the Pentagon to make these decisions. 
   I am going to tell you right now, that is the road leading to the minority, because it is a lack of oversight and a lack of leadership and a lack of accountability. And I am so happy, Mr. Ryan, I am very happy, it fires me up, Mr. Speaker, that we have a majority that is willing to do what we must do to give the American people, because we are responsible, they are our stockholders. They gave their tax dollars for us to have the opportunity to appropriate those dollars and have oversight over those dollars in an appropriate way.     
   And by reading these poll numbers and what you just shared, Mr. Ryan, is more than vindication, more than third-party validators; it is leadership, accountability, and being fiscally responsible on behalf of the taxpayer dollars. I can tell you that I don't know a Republican that would say, ``I am against accountability.'' I don't know of a Democrat who would say, ``I don't like being fiscally responsible; I like to be fiscally irresponsible.'' 
   I don't know an Independent who says, and Independents came out in record numbers this last election. They voted for a new direction, and I am so glad we are giving it to them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I thank the gentlewoman from Ohio. I am so glad that she comes to the floor often to share with Members and the American people on issues that need light. It is good when we are able to give good information out. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it is important as we go through this week of accountability in Washington, D.C. I think that is what people have been waiting on and counting on. The leadership is being provided to make that happen. 
   Earlier you heard me talk about the whistleblower legislation that was passed here today. When we start talking about ending waste in Federal contracting, we start looking at strengthening protections for Federal whistleblowers and moving to increase disclosure requirements for Presidential records, and also requiring disclosure of big donors to Presidential libraries. Providing long-term, overdue, constitutionally mandated oversight over veterans' health care crises and other Federal issues is very, very important. This is serious work, and there are some serious pieces of legislation that will cross this floor. 
   Tomorrow we will be dealing with the whole issue of accountability in contracting. That is so very, very important, not only with the war in Iraq and the war in Afghanistan, but many of the contracts that are being executed in Homeland Security and the Defense Department. As we start to look at future disasters, looking at future contracting in our Federal agencies, it is important. 
   Limited duration of no-bid contracts awarded in emergencies to 8 months; within the emergency, Mr. Speaker, if it is an emergency, it is an emergency, not an emergency over the next 4 years for no-bid contracts. And many of the bigger companies have taken advantage of the no-bid contracts and have been the headline of several news articles about the fact that we have not provided the kind of oversight needed. 
   Also, requiring large Federal agencies to develop and implement a plan to minimize the use of noncompetitive contracts in having no-bid contracts, and many of these Federal agencies have not only doubled, but tripled in some instances.     
   So overall within the Bush administration that has doubled under this administration. 
   Also, requiring large Federal agencies to implement a plan in minimizing the use of cost-plus contracting. Cost-plus contracting are the type of contracts that give contractors little or no incentive to control costs. This is so very, very important. This kind of contracting has grown by 75 percent under this present administration. 
   This legislation that we are passing or will pass tomorrow hopefully as we debate it on the floor is not for the Bush administration. It is for the future. It is from this point on of how we are going to deal with contracting, how we are going to cut out some of this waste that is taking place here in Washington, D.C., and throughout the Federal Government. 
   This is really tackling many of the issues that we have right here under our nose, Mr. Speaker. We do not have to go off into foreign lands and try to figure out how we can correct. We need to correct some things right here in Washington, D.C., on how we do business. 
   Also, requiring agencies to prepare a public letter explaining why they awarded a no-bid contract. Again, shedding light where we do not have light now. This is leadership and work. It takes work to uncover the fact that we must shed light on the issue of no-bid contracting. 
   Also, requiring that contractors that overcharge more than $1 million, that it is disclosed to Congress. We want to bring about accountability. Disclose it. Right now, contractors that go over and overcharge, go over the billions of dollars. When I was on Homeland Security Committee last year, the oversight committee, seeing all of the contractors that overcharged and was paid by the Federal agencies and Homeland Security, you charge us, you sent us a bill, we will pay it, no accountability, no oversight. Those days are over. It is going to start here tomorrow here on this floor. 
   I urge all Members to vote for the legislation in the affirmative, and Mr. Speaker, maybe tomorrow when we come to the floor, the 30-something Working Group, maybe we will have a bipartisan vote on this legislation. It is kind of hard for anyone to go home and say I voted for the Accountability in Contracting Act. Just the word ``accountability'' I have been using that for the last 3, 4 weeks. We will see. I hope we have it. 
   Also, making sure that we close the revolving door and requiring that former Federal procurement officers wait 1 year before seeking employment at lobbying and contracting firms; require that the Federal procurement officer wait 1 year before involving themselves in contracts given by the former employer. 
   I think it is important, Mr. Speaker, once again, we had just here on this floor, we have had Members that have anchored bills, led it through Congress and announced retirement, in past Congresses they have done this, announced retirement and go into the private sector and make millions, but that happens under the lights of this Chamber. 
   But in some of these Federal agencies, you have some folks that will start a project and then have an end date of when they are going to end their Federal employment to do what? To go out and manage the project. Again, I do not know an Independent, Republican or Democrat that would endorse that kind of activity. 
   Why will the Accountability in Contracting Act be on the floor to tomorrow? Because the Democratic leadership has the will and the desire to clean up the waste in Washington, D.C., not just talking about it, not just  having boards behind us saying we believe in accountability, we hate waste, but actually doing something about it. 
   This should be good for the private sector, too, of making sure that their employees and individuals that work with them and subcontractors that work with them on Federal contracts are accountable and that they make sure that they pay very close attention to what they are doing with the taxpayer dollars. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, with that, I look forward to coming to the floor tomorrow, talking about the victories of this week. I believe tomorrow will be our last day voting here this week, and I would like to just recap and also talk about what is coming up next week. The reason why we are going through this process is because not only has the leadership asked for inclusion of ideas, but to make sure that no one feels excluded of being a part of this process and having the opportunity to vote on legislation. 
   The bipartisan votes that I have mentioned earlier will continue to add on to that list, and soon I am pretty sure it will be in the high 30s and 40s because legislation that makes sense to the people back home are coming to the floor of the House of Representatives in a record number like it has never done before. 
   So I am happy that we are having these bipartisan votes. I am happy that we are working as though we were in the minority, hungry to provide leadership. I am glad that accountability is shining on to this floor and throughout the halls of Congress, and with that, Mr. Speaker, once again, it was an honor addressing the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so much, Mr. Speaker; and it is an honor to come to the floor once again. My good colleagues that have, we come to the floor working on behalf of the 30-Something Working Group; and I can just attest that it's just great to be an American and have an opportunity to share our thoughts and ideas and concerns. 
   As you know, the 30-Something Working Group, we come to the floor to shed light on the action of the House and to talk about this new direction that we fought so hard for last November, especially on the Democratic side of the aisle, to move this country in a new direction and exactly what the American people have called for. So we're excited. 
   I'm glad to have Mr. Altmire and also Mr. Murphy here with me tonight. And I know that Mr. Murphy has been pulling almost a double duty here. I understand he was Acting Speaker a little earlier tonight. 
   And I had the opportunity, while you were in the Chair, to join Speaker Pelosi celebrating her 20th year of public service, 20 years here in the House. There were a number of great Speakers that were there, honored her family for allowing her to serve this great country of ours, and also recognizing the fact that she's history as being the first female Speaker. But also there were people like Patti LaBelle there, and just a really star-studded event. She deserves that honor and that appreciation; and constituents also, I'm pretty sure, are pretty happy and proud. All Americans are. 
   With that, I, of course, we, Mr. Speaker, we and mainly as of late, talking about Iraq, and as we speak  here on the floor, there's a major debate going on just across the hall in the Senate dealing with comprehensive immigration reform. Just in the last 6 months, we have done so much and we've talked about so much and we've taken action on so many different issues; and I know that Mr. Murphy and Mr. Altmire and I will be addressing many of those issues tonight. 
   This is our first time since the Memorial Day break, and I had a wonderful opportunity to attend a NATO conference, parliamentary, that the Speaker appointed me and I think 12 other Members of the House, bipartisan, spent some time over in Portugal meeting with some of our European Union partners there, and had the opportunity to go to Tunisia to honor those World War II veterans that are, or honor those that paid the ultimate sacrifice. It's the only U.S. cemetery on the continent of Africa; and it was so very, very special and touching, just as an American and as a Member of Congress, to go there and lay a wreath on behalf of those that paid the ultimate sacrifice. 
   And then having, and still having, Mr. Speaker, the opportunity to come back here and join with my family, who's here in Washington, go down to the World War II Memorial, which had Tunisia and all of the different countries where World War II, we had fighting and men and women lost their lives, to make that connection, all in a 5-day span, is something great as an American.     
   I just want to share that with the Members of the House. And we know that one of our soldiers just today, one of the soldiers who was found in Iraq was laid to rest at Arlington Cemetery, and we know that there are two that are still missing of the recent ones that were missing from the IED that exploded recently in Iraq. So we paid honor to those that have paid the ultimate sacrifice and their families and also to those veterans that served beside them. And it was such a great week, and I know that many of the Members had an opportunity to go back to their districts to celebrate the life of those that paid the ultimate sacrifice. 
   With that, Mr. Murphy, I would like to yield to you, sir. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, I am just so happy that you had an opportunity to share some of your wisdom with us here tonight and also a perspective, especially someone who has been in harm's way and has been in the field with our men and women, and at the same time talking about education. 
   We just had a major education summit right before the break that the Speaker put forth, and Mr. Miller and Ms. DeLauro were a part of that effort, and we were just so pleased to do that. 
   In the 30-Something Working Group, we kind of like to have a conversation. We know that everyone has to make an opening remark or statement, but, Mr. Altmire, I am looking forward to hearing what you want to share with the members. 
   And, also, one of my constituents once called me. Serving in public service, you have an opportunity to hear some interesting things. He called me up. And you know these cable talk shows, where you go down to public television and you sign up and it's like a nonprofit organization. He called me, and I was a State representative at that time, and he said, Kendrick, I want you to come on my show. And I said, well, what are we going to talk about? And he said, we're going to talk about the consequences of the consequences. 
   So I had to kind of, I was on the phone and I said, ``consequences of the consequences?'' And he said, ``Yes, the consequences of the consequences could be consequential.'' 
   But in this case, as we look at the consequences of the consequences, using his description of what was going on at that particular time, I couldn't help, as I yield to you, but look at the Newsweek cover. 
   I went home tonight before I came over here. My wife joined me at the celebration for the Speaker. And this Newsweek cover that many of us will be reading this week says, ``After Bush. How to Restore America's Place in the World.'' I mean, this is not a Democratic publication, Mr. Speaker. I think it's important for us to understand that we are living in serious times. And here at the 30-Something Working Group, we try to break things down so that everyone can understand, where Members won't say, well, I didn't know exactly my role at that particular time. 
   There are very historic votes that are taking place here. We just had an emergency supplemental. I think that every vote that every Member took was a heroic vote and a sheroic vote, in my opinion, need it be in the positive or the affirmative. 
   But I think it's important for all of us to realize that we have a role to play. And many of us, I know I do, share getting our men and women back home and bringing an end to this conflict, especially as it relates to U.S. troops serving in combat posture on the streets of Baghdad in the middle of a civil war. 
   Mr. Altmire. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Altmire, if you would yield, and Mr. Murphy, I just don't want it to go by. You're talking about what we just passed before we left, received the funding for, with a major fight at the White House. I mean, the President wanted to veto it. He said that's not what I asked for. Meanwhile, Walter Reed was still standing by for the dollars to be able to make the corrections that they need to make. 
   We know that we passed the Chairman's, Mr. Skelton's, bill, Armed Services bill off this floor to help us with readiness and all of those things. The President said that he is going to veto many of these things that are over his mark. But what you're talking about is something that we couldn't even dream of in the last Congress. I mean, you start thinking about how we moved the ball down field, and I mean by force. And Mr. Speaker, I can tell you, many of us, not only do we have to eat our Wheaties, but we have to do our pushups. And mentally we have to prepare ourselves between our ears to go to battle on behalf of the American people and those that have served. 
   So I hear exactly what you're saying. I just want to make sure that Members understand. And guess what? Again, Democratic leadership. A number of Republican colleagues, I believe with maybe 80 of them, voted against the emergency supplemental to get these dollars to our veterans to show you that if we can get these great issues to the floor and that we can get a vote on them that the American spirit and the bipartisan spirit will then take off, versus those that said, well, we don't need to do it. And we are doing it in a meaningful way that veterans are going to see an improvement as we move on. 
   So I just wanted to hit that real quick, and I yield back. But I just wanted to be able to, especially from a person that was around as it relates to Members on the floor, now, I guess I'm the only Member that was in the 109th Congress and 108th Congress, to reflect on that historical note there of just leadership and making it happen on behalf of our veterans in Pennsylvania and other States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Mr. Murphy, it is very hard to move in a bipartisan fashion. One speaks constantly about the bipartisan spirit, about bipartisan action. Spirit and action are two different interpretations of actually getting something done. 
   The action part means that Members are able to vote with their voting cards or walk up to that desk and sign a card that says yea or nay and work in a bipartisan spirit on the yea. Many amendments from our Republican colleagues, some of them are passed and some of them are not passed. But the bottom line is they have at least the opportunity to come to the floor and to bring their ideas to the floor. Definitely in the area of financial services. 
   We have spent a very long time, Mr. Speaker, on this floor hearing Republican amendments that were offered in committee, offered in subcommittee. Some came to the floor and we were able to work those amendments out to become a part of the work product. Others just wanted to file an amendment, for whatever reason, but had their opportunity in this democracy to do so. 
   Many of the Members in this House, of course we have a lot to do, and Members when they come to the floor, they said, I thought this amendment was already voted down in committee? But many of the Members on the minority side, the Republican side, had an opportunity to offer it, Mr. Murphy. I think this really makes a difference between Democratic leadership and Republican leadership. 
   Even though we may not agree, giving the opportunity to others to be able to take part in this democracy, something that was suppressed in the two previous Congresses that I can speak to. And I can tell you that it should be well-noted here that this House has provided the kind of leadership to allow the minority party here in this House, which are the Republicans, to have a voice in the process of making laws. That is so very, very important. 
   I will say this and then yield back to you. Some are saying, why aren't you  treating the Republicans as the Republicans treated you or treated Democrats. Well, guess what? Forty-two new Members of the House, especially when you are on the Democratic side, all of you in this Chamber who are part of the majority makers, they voted for change. They didn't vote for the same. They voted for a government that can work in a bipartisan way. They voted for the kind of leadership to allow minority Members, who have constituents just like I have, to vote for veterans assistance, to be able to vote to make sure we put forth dollars to come up with alternative fuels and other ways that we can supply America so that we can invest in the Midwest versus the Middle East. They voted for all of that. 
   And guess what? That takes time and tolerance, Mr. Speaker, and that is something that the Republican majority in the previous Congress did not have. I am glad we have the tolerance. I am glad we are taking the time. I am glad we are working the way we are working, even though it is very painful for many of us and our constituents and many that have our families back in the district. 
   In this time and this place in history, when you have cover after cover, how do we restore America's place in the world, it is not how the world thinks about us. It is about what kind of leadership are we providing, not only for our constituents, but for the United States of America. And just at a time we are trying to dig ourselves out of out-of-control borrowing from foreign nations, we are seeing differently. 
   I am a Member of the NATO parliamentary group, and I can tell you, when you are talking to some countries, and it is kind of like you have to be quiet for a moment, have some level of contrition and listen to what other people are saying, because they feel we have been dictating to them what they should do and what they should think, and they are saying, by the way, you owe us money. You owe me money. You owe my country money. 
   So we have domestic issues that we have to cover. I know we are going to talk about stem cell research and I think that is very, very important. That is part of the new direction. It is leadership. Sometimes leadership is lonely. But we have to do it. 
   Mr. Murphy, I just want to thank you for bringing some of these issues to light and talking about what it takes to bring about bipartisan action versus Members coming to the floor and saying we should have a bipartisan spirit. 
   Well, spirit is a good thing, if you use it religiously. One of my friends, Dr. Michael Eric Dyson, I have read a couple of his books, he says spirit makes religion act right. The real issue is that it is good to have spirit. We all feel good about it. But action is even better. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, you are 110 percent right, and that is what folks voted for. They didn't vote for you to go be the strongest Democrat you can be, or I want you to go and be Republican-like. The bottom line is they voted for us to be Members of Congress, constitutional officers having a part in this process, one of the three branches of Government, and making sure that every Member is able to fulfill their constitutional duty and come here and participate. 
   I feel so good about it, it is like almost I have chill bumps. To be able to come to this floor, to be a part of the whole begging, if you get us an opportunity to train the thought it could. All of those things we talked about, you think about where we were and where we are now, and that we still have the kind of spirit that we had then, we still want to fight and we still have battles ahead of us. 
   We have a President that is saying you do anything over the budget that I set forth, no matter how good it may be, children's healthcare, veterans affairs, the issues dealing with the environment, I am going to veto it. 
   Well, you know something? We are here saying fine, if you want to veto it, then consider yourself challenged, versus, well, if you say you are going to veto it, then I guess we can't do it. Even though we have our challenges in the Senate, I think that it is very, very important as it relates to getting a number of these agenda items through, because of the close numbers there, I think the American people are going to continue to follow in the spirit of a new direction and help us carry out the agenda that they wanted originally, and hopefully some of our Republican colleagues in the Senate will be able to come together and have bipartisan action and move it forward. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I just want to say that Mr. Murphy presented himself so well tonight. Mr. Ryan is in Ohio tonight, and he BlackBerryed me and said he wished he could be here with us. As you know, Mr. Ryan is an outstanding Member of Congress. He had a death in his family and had to return to his district. We appreciate and recognize his absence. I am going to e-mail him back and say, Mr. Ryan, I think one of the reasons why things are moving so smoothly, you guessed, is because you're not here; but that is another issue. 
   Mr. Altmire, one thing that we need to talk about as relates to stem cell research, there are so many diseases that could be cured, and 72 percent of Americans are supporting this research. We have kids with juvenile diabetes. There are a number of issues that we want to try to move on. This is a leadership issue. The thing about leadership is it is lonely sometimes. 
   I get e-mails and calls from my constituents, I support this; or, Kendrick, I wasn't quite with you on that decision. But the good thing is something is happening, action versus inaction. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You couldn't ask for a better feeling being a Member of Congress. I always share out that. Out on the steps of the Capitol at least once or twice a week we have young people from our districts, and they want to hear from Members of Congress. The difference between us and the average American out there, and there are only 500-plus Members of Congress, we read something in the paper, something that could have been avoided, we hear a story from our constituents, something that could have been avoided, and to have an opportunity to vote on a piece of legislation like we are going to vote on tomorrow, no matter how many times we have to vote on it, we are a part of the solution to many of the health problems that are facing Americans throughout this country. We are the leader in the world as it relates to research and being responsible and being respectful. 
   To have 200 organizations supporting the bill is very, very important. It is supported by the American Medical Association, the AARP, the Association of American Medical Colleges, Parkinson's Action Network, the American Diabetes Association, Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, Paralyzed Veterans of America, all of these groups. That is just to name a few. And also, 72 percent of Americans support this bill that we are looking to pass. You also have a number of corporations that are out there calling for it. Think about the money that could be saved, not only the money, but the lives. This is what it is all about. 
   People ask: How do you feel being a Member of Congress? I feel good because I feel we can bring to the floor and bring to this government what is needed to help Americans, and I am glad we are a part of that. 
   Mr. Murphy, it is good having an authority on the floor. I was a member of the Florida State legislature, and a State legislature is an interesting organization to be a part of. I think the first line of public service is being a county commissioner or city commissioner. That is when somebody can leave their house and let you know what is on their mind. I am glad to have an opportunity to vote on this, and I look forward to releasing information to my constituents about what we have done, and hopefully put some pressure on the White House to do what so many Americans want us to do, and that is get at some of the issues that are facing our country right now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Mr. Altmire. 
   Also, we want the Members, if they want any information we talked about tonight or want to speak to us, we have the www.speaker.gov Web site. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, it was an honor to address the House, the 30 Something Working Group, tonight, the two MURPHIES and also Mr. Altmire and myself. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, it is an honor to come before the House once again, especially this evening. 
   As you know, the 30-Something Working Group, we come to the floor to bring forth the truth on behalf of the American people, not just Independents or not just Democrats, not just Republicans, but on behalf of the American people. 
   I am so glad to be joined once again by my good friend from Niles, Ohio, Mr. TIM RYAN, and I am always excited about being on the floor with him. I am excited by the fact that, Mr. Speaker, today that there was a conference report signed to support our men and women that are in harm's way in Iraq, Afghanistan, and in areas where they are staging to move into theater, one that brings about the equipment and support, going above and beyond what the President called for, but it also had benchmarks to bring about the kind of standards that the American people are crying out for. 
   It happened today at 3 p.m., and I am very proud of not only the Speaker but Majority Leader HARRY REID over in the Senate, Senator Reid. I think it is also important for us to realize that in both chambers it passed by a bipartisan vote. I think it is also important to note that as soon as we were able to get that conference report signed, that the President, one of his first actions was to announce officially his veto of that legislation, saying tomorrow that Democrats and Republicans will come together at the White House to discuss where we can compromise. 
   Let me just say this before I yield to Mr. Ryan. I understand that there is a discussion that is going on about who is right and who is wrong, but I think it is very, very important to understand especially on the date that Mr. Ryan is going to address in a minute, some 4 years ago, where there was a great announcement of accomplishment and now to continue to move on under that light of saying trust me, that everything is going to be okay, I think that those days are over. I am not saying they are over. The American people are saying they are over. 
   One time here on the floor, Mr. Ryan went down a litany of things, and actually I was checking out some of your work on YouTube recently, and it had the one when you came and you said, forgive me for questioning what the President says or what the Republican majority at that time had to say about the fact of liberators and paying for the war and on and on and on. 
   It continues, but the American people are now saying, Mr. Speaker, that we understand this Commander in Chief but we need the Congress to stand up and be the Congress, asking for accountability. 
   So, with that, I know that we have a number of things to talk about here this evening, and we also have some fresh quotes from former brass because, of course, if you are enlisted or you are inside, you cannot speak truth to power or speak your mind. This information has just been released not only publicly but to those of us here in Congress. We want to share that with the Members. 
   Also, I want to add that the death toll in Iraq is 3,351; wounded in action, returned to duty is up 13,875; and wounded in action and not returning to duty is 11,215. That is the latest at 10:00 a.m. today. As you know, when we come to the floor, we give that report of that information because I think the Members need to understand that this is not a political issue. This is a serious issue that is facing the country and also facing the men and women in uniform and their families. 
   So I do know that the American people are, and a super majority of them are, 100 percent behind accountability and also oversight. I think it is important that we have that, and the President is asking for a blank check. 
   The thing that I am disappointed about is that the President had an opportunity to share something great with the country about a dialogue, but he decided to misrepresent what is in the legislation. I think that as we continue to talk about this tonight, that we continue to share with the Members, because every time we take a vote, the vote gets greater on behalf of accountability. I am hoping that we can meter up enough on both sides of the aisle to make sure that we hang in there with the men and women in harm's way and those that may be placed in harm's way and not wince to the President on some sort of floating politics that is going on right now. 
   I hope they have a true dialogue. I am not about the political part of this. I am about the action part of this and making sure that our men and women have what they need. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have done what we said we would do: make sure that they are funded; make sure that they have the equipment that they need; make sure that the men and women that went over into harm's way, that the Department of Defense regulation as it relates to the downtime that they are supposed to have with their families,  that they will have it and that if the Department of Defense was going to exit from that, then there has to be a reason why they were going to exit, for not holding their end of the deal when these men and women signed up as volunteers. 
   So it is very, very important that those of us here in Congress make sure that within this democracy that many of these individuals are fighting for and making sure and those before them, the veterans, making sure we can salute one flag, that we honor them through our courage and integrity when it comes down to this very issue. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield to Mr. Ryan.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Let me just add to what you just said. Members may be in their office watching, or walk here on the floor and say, what's Mr. Ryan and Mr. Meek talking about, like we are independent individuals that just come to the floor just to say that we are upset. 
   I must say that a number of Americans live through the people they respect in government, be it Republican or Democrat. Sometimes they lead into this political process. People they get involved in government for different reasons. Some folks say I am going to latch on to this individual, or I am going to latch on to that individual. It might have been John F. Kennedy for someone else. It might have been Ronald Reagan for another lady, or whatever the case may be. 
   It may be Speaker of the House, who knows. But they get involved in government for whatever reason. We got involved in government because we are the same folks that went and signed up at the supervisor of elections to run for office, because we wanted to do something about what was happening here in Washington D.C. and represent the people, not just Democrats, not just Republicans, not just independents, but the people, and those that are yet unborn. 
   I think it's also important, when we start looking at these issues, we can just open today's Washington Post, May 1. This is May 1, and this is Tuesday. Front page, April, toll, is the highest of 2007 for U.S. troops, 100 U.S. troops in a month. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. What is so very important for everyone to understand here, that this is above and beyond politics right now. For the President to say, the President is making a political statement, he is making a political statement because he once said, as long as I am President, we are not going to pull back any troops from Iraq. Just because he made that statement doesn't necessarily mean that should be the case. 
   We live in democracy, last I checked. No one stopped me walking down the street. No one kicked in my door, because I have rights. I think it's important that the President understands that we live in a democracy. So, really, in my opinion, it's hard to talk directly to the President about something when he has made a statement, and he has said, I am going to stick by it. 
   This is not stick by your guns, you know, stick by whatever, however the song goes. It's not appropriate to use when you talk about the man, but it's stick by 
   whatever statement you made. I think it's important that people understand that we are going to the table of compromise, which the President said we were going to compromise, he didn't sound like someone who really wanted to compromise in this statement at 6:10 today. 
   He sounded like a person saying I am going to veto this, and they can come to the hill and the bottom line is the Congress is trying to do this, this and this. That is not looking at compromise, that is looking at keeping some sort of word that he has made. If you want to talk about word, I think it's important. 
   The good thing I like about the 30-Something working group members is the fact that the Congressional Record and past statements are so very, very important to today's reality. 
   The President said, in his comments, that he didn't believe the time lines, and he spoke out very forcefully against them. Yet in 1990, on June 5, then Governor Bush said about President Clinton, I think it's important for the President to lay out a timetable as to how long they will be involved and when they will be withdrawn, talking about another conflict. 
   It's good enough for President Clinton. It's not good enough for him. It's one thing for you, it's an old saying, it's one thing for you to ask somebody, you tell someone to do something when you are not willing to do it. I think it's important, after all of this death, after all of the conflict that is going on in Iraq, in the middle of the winter, in the  middle of the civil war, the American people are crying out. If it was political, and men and women weren't losing their lives, and Walter Reed didn't get a plane load of injured soldiers and Marines and airmen and the Coast Guard and sailors, then I would say, well, let's play the political role. 
   As far as I am concerned, when I talked to my friends on the Republican side of the aisle, I share with them, because I think there is some good Members that are there that want to speak their mind. When they see me in the hall or see in the cafeteria, they say, Kendrick, you know, you were on the floor the other day, you made a lot of sense. 
   I say, why don't you vote differently. Why don't you vote in the emergency supplemental to send the troops the money? Because the more bipartisan votes we have, the harder it will be for the President to do what they are doing. 
   Listen, to the Republican minority, you guys are on your way to a permanent minority in the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate following the President on this issue of don't ask any questions, just give me a blank check. The American people, unelected a number of Republican Members of the House and Senate last Congress. Why? Because they were rubber stamping everything that the President of the United States wanted. 
   You have witnessed this. We have seen the difference. Now we have the opportunity to lead in a bipartisan way. We send a bill to the President, he says he is going to veto it because he doesn't like it, and he misrepresents what the bill does. I think it's important, as we go through this whole discourse of how we are going to carry out for the next, how we are going to carry out the mission in getting the men and women what they need, I think it's important that we have a little truth that rises up out of all of this misinformation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, a mayor of a U.S. city has to carry out accountability for Federal money; State governments have to account for the dollars and the progress of programs, block grant dollars, that we send to the States. Here on U.S. soil, they have to be accountable to the Federal Government. If they are not accountable, they may very well lose, what? Federal funding. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. And what the President is saying, and this blank check; you know, Mr. Ryan, I really think that the President thinks that he has a rubber stamp Congress. I think that is what he is thinks, because that is what he is used to. 
   It is almost like having a situation if you are a small business owner and you come in and you have a shop in one county and you spend most of your time over in the other county, you come over to your other shop and you notice the way they are doing business and there aren't any accountability measures on productivity, there are no accountability measures on spending. And you are wondering why this shop, the shop in the opposite county that you are very seldom at is running on time or being cost effective, and then you come in and you say that there should be change; but then, better yet, the manager of that shop says, well, why should we change? I know we are not doing things the way you want us to do it and we know that we are spending a lot of money over here. Why should we change? Well, that is what we have right now. 
   The President is saying that the Iraqi elected officials and the Iraqi government don't have to be accountable and their feet should not be held to the fire. But, better yet, we have mayors, governors, State legislators, county commissioner, parish, what have you, they have to be accountable or they lose their funding or don't get their funding when you are in a war that is costing $500 billion and counting. 
   When you look at these issues, Members, you can't help but say something is not right here. These are the people that are here in the United States of America, States, cities, counties that have to be accountable through Federal law and Federal appropriations. And over here, we have the Iraqi government. 3,351 of our men and women that have died, over 26-plus thousand that have been injured. And wasted money. And 100 soldiers that died last month alone. And we don't want accountable measures over here. We want to trust the administration on it, and we just want to say don't put any benchmarks there, don't even put any real goals there, don't do anything, don't ask any questions, just send us the money; you don't know what you are doing. 
   Well, I tell you this much. As long as this majority is here in this House of  Representatives that passed a bipartisan bill, sent it to the White House, that had accountability measures in it, my prayer tonight is going to be for those that will be there at the negotiating table there in the White House come tomorrow morning that, on both sides, that they hold the interests of the American people before you hold the interests of someone that made a promise in Iraq, in a foreign land, to say that we are going to have as much flexibility that we are going to have, and accountability measures don't need to be in place. 
   It couldn't come at a worse time, Mr. Ryan. The newspaper is full and the media is full of how the American people have not been told the truth. It is sickening. I feel that it is something that I didn't do in the minority. Maybe I didn't understand something in the last two Congresses that I was a part of, of watching all of this lack of information that has been given to Congress and how the administration has gotten away with this, and they have gotten away with saying, ``I am sorry, that is all. What do you want from us?'' We lost e-mails, CIA agents have been outed, clandestine operations abroad have been jeopardized. Men and women, there have been cover-ups. I am talking about testimony before Congress just weeks ago, things have been covered up with friendly fire of certain individuals that signed up to defend this country. Meanwhile, we are sitting here being nice guys and nice ladies and not standing and hold their feet to the fire. 
   This is the reason why we have a U.S. House of Representatives, the reason we have a U.S. Senate, the reason why there are three branches of government, where we don't have kingdom politics where one just says this is the way it is going to be, like it or not. 
   Well, I have got a message for the White House and I have also got a message from the American people. The bottom line is we live in a democracy. We would love to sit down at the table of compromise so that we can come out with a work product. But don't sit there saying what you are not going to do and what you are going to do before you sit down at the table. At least the leadership here is saying that we are going to make sure that there is accountability and that there are benchmarks there for progress, and make sure the U.S. taxpayer dollars are being sent, not just some sort of slogan of saying, well, you know, I am trying to command from over here. I mean, it didn't make sense, Mr. Ryan. But the bottom line is, the thing that is good about this whole thing is that if this was a year ago, it wouldn't even be a debate. It wouldn't even be discussed. Accountability? Oh, no. The majority would say, we wouldn't do that. And now we have the accountability, we have the strength of the majority in the Senate and the strength of the majority here in the House. 
   But if there was a political question, like I said before, and one would sit back and just let it play out and say, well, one day we will get to that point. We cannot afford to get to that one day. We have to do this now. Not several months from now, now. The American people demand it, the U.S. troops deserve it, our veterans deserve it. 
   There are dollars in this emergency supplemental that fix Walter Reed and start to fix the veterans services in this country. There are dollars in here that help make sure that the men and women have the proper training and the equipment before they get to the field. Wow, Mr. Ryan, there is a revelation there, that we will have equipment and that we would make sure that striker forces have what they need of making sure they have a commander and a gunner and a driver, the essentials, that are trained in those categories before that striker vehicle pulls out of Camp Victory. Wow, there is something, that we are actually going to do what we said we are going to do, and we are going to take the Department of Defense's own regulations, Mr. Ryan, and put it into Federal law in this emergency supplemental; of saying that if you are going to spend these dollars, this $124-plus billion, that you are going to be accountable in these ways, Department of Defense. 
   The reason why the President doesn't like this, Mr. Ryan, is the fact that it is actually doing what it said that he would do, and he doesn't want his words to actually come to fruition when it comes down to the way he described it. He came here at this podium, Mr. Ryan, we were sitting right out here. He came to that podium and said: We are going to hold the Iraqi government accountable. We are going to make sure that they train the troops. All of these things that he said, we took note as the Congress and put it into the emergency supplemental. And I think it is important that everyone understands what that is. 
   One other thing, Mr. Ryan. The bill provides $21.1 billion for military health care, more than what the President requested; $900 million of that for posttraumatic stress disorder, $661 million to prevent health care fees increasing on our troops, $20 million to address the problem at Walter Reed. It provides $1.8 billion for more veterans health care, more than what the President has called for. I want to add again, $595 million to address the backlog maintaining the VA health care facilities, $250 million to hire additional personnel for the administration for VA health care, for the health care system, $229 million for treatment for the growing number of Iraqi and Afghanistan veterans, $100 million for mental health care in veterans assistance, $83 million to speed up the processing of claims for veterans returning back from Iraq and Afghanistan. It also provides other additional above what the President calls for as it relates to supporting of the troops. 
   And I think it is important that people understand, $2 billion for more strategic reserve readiness funds, which $1 billion is for Army National Guard equipment shortfalls. This is very, very important. $1.1 billion for more military housing and $3 billion more for making sure that there is mine resistant ambush protection, what we call MRAPs, for troops in Iraq. 
   Mr. Ryan, the reason why the President is talking about additional spending, I want to make sure that every veteran in the United States of America understands that he is talking about the money that I just described and then some. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, I know that the President is used to having bills come to his desk that he can't even wait for it to get through the door before he signs it in tax cuts for the billionaires and those super wealthy. But this time he had legislation that's before him or he had legislation before him that he vetoed it that would have helped everyday Joe and Sue that signed up to serve this country in the way that this country asked them to serve. 
   And, doggone it, if we can't stand behind them, then something is really wrong. 
   And I am really glad, Mr. Ryan, that I am not just speaking on the behalf of the ``if we could, we would.'' But I can tell you this. What the majority leader is doing when he sits down in the Senate with the President tomorrow and the Speaker of this House what she is doing when she sits down with the President of the United States tomorrow, I want them to feel that they are wearing the breastplate of righteousness to be able to go to the President and say, these are average people, they are not sons and daughters of millionaires and billionaires. And, you know something? They are going to have rights, too. They have rights. And they have the right to be represented, and they will be represented. And I am so happy that we are going toe to toe with the President of the United States, not for politics, but for the country and for the folks that their mom and dad, they may only own one pickup truck, some of them wanted to go to college but couldn't afford to go to college, some might have gone to college and went into the Marines or to the Army or to the Navy or to the Air Force or into the Coast Guard. Those that are serving in theater as officers, we owe it to them. That is the bottom line. They deserve the representation. 
   I know that the President is used to getting a blank check so Halliburton can spend all the money they want to spend and burn trucks and then get paid by the Federal Government. That will no longer happen, not under this watch, not as long as we have a Democratic majority in this House and a bipartisan spirit that is willing to send him the bill. 
   I don't want to challenge the President to veto another bill. I want to challenge the President to come to the table and sit down, and let's have a sensible conversation and let's come up with a work product that we can all  live with. It is not going to all be that he wants, it is not going to be all that we want. But doggone it, Mr. Speaker, when they rise from that table and we get the report, the rest of us, Members of Congress, the integrity of what we have sent to the White House when it comes down to accountability, when it comes down to performance, and when it comes down to holding the Iraqi government accountable and assisting our men and women that have served and those that are coming back from theater when they need veteran services, that must be there. That has to be there. And if the President doesn't allow it, then I would say our leadership should not allow him to have his way. 
   As far as I am concerned, it is a no-brainer; and that is the reason why the American people overwhelmingly support our position, Mr. Ryan. When I say our position, I am not saying the Democratic majority's position, I am saying the position of the bipartisan legislation that we passed through House and Senate. 
   I want to thank you for your patience, sir, because I thought it was very, very important that we talk a little bit about what the President did veto and what's in the legislation so that folks don't get the misrepresentation that has been given to them over the last hour or so from the White House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Mr. Ryan, it's interesting. You mentioned Chairman Murtha. Chairman Murtha was fine with the administration as long as he was voting with the administration in the minority, being the ranking member on Defense Appropriations. They didn't have a problem with him. As a matter of fact, he was held up as a hero, decorated veteran, longstanding member of the Defense Appropriations Committee in the House, ally, called to the White House for his advice. 
   As soon as Mr. Murtha figured out that, not only was the intelligence that the Congress was given was inaccurate, and as soon as he figured out that we could not win ``war militarily,'' and he went through a long assessment in figuring this out, and talking with professionals and talking with generals, talking with those that are still enlisted, going into theater, that's what you're supposed to do as an appropriator, making sure the American taxpayer dollars are being spent appropriately; making sure that what they're telling you here on Capitol Hill is actually reality, is the actual reality out in the field. 
   A lot of folks look to the Middle East when they think of the war. Well, the  effects of the war are felt right here in this country. You go to the military bases and you talk to these families. It's hard to go to many of these military bases because you see the children, you see the husband or the wife that's left behind. You see those that have lost their loved one, or those that are now, have their loved one coming back without an arm or a leg, or mentally affected by going into theater without the necessary time back home to recover mentally and physically from being in the middle of a civil war. I think it's important for us to realize that and understand that there's great gravity on this issue. 
   And the President may believe, in his own mind and also within his advisors that are standing around him, that he has to stick to his guns, he has to, you know, it's a fight at the OK Corral or here in the Capitol city. It's not a fight. We're all Americans. We're all on the same side. We salute one flag. 
   I think it's important for us to understand that there are some folks here, some of them wear blue jeans, some of them wear, you know, shop at big box stores and small stores in the small town, some folk never walked in a mall before, and if they walked in a mall they couldn't afford many of the things that are in the mall. These are a number of our, a super majority of the folks that are represented within the Armed Services. They aren't the only ones that serve their country, but many of them are financial challenged. And their voice is just as 
   strong as the next person, or should be. 
   And so when we talk about just the simple things on behalf of the men and women in uniform and making sure that we bring some sense to this, because if the President had his way, we would be there, my children's children will have an opportunity to see this war continue. 
   And I think it's very, very important that we talk about accountability; not talk about it, act on it. And that's what we're doing. We're acting on it. 
   Let's look at what the President is all concerned about. The President must determine that substantial progress, I must add, is made on security, political and reconstruction benchmarks by July, 2007. Well, the President can just say, well, you know, I think that's fine. I think we're making progress. 
   If the President cannot certify progress, redeployment must start by July with a goal of being completed, and it has to be certified, that if in July, certification is made, redeployment of U.S. troops may begin by August 1 of 2007, with a goal to be complete within 180 days, by March 31, 2008. 
   This is sending a message to the Iraqi government that they have to whip themselves in shape; they have to make sure that we train the troops. Now, this is combat, this is not cutting off training. Training will continue. The things that will take U.S. troops out of harm's way will continue. 
   We're patrolling the streets of Baghdad. We're patrolling the streets of Tikrit and other places. You hear reports of security forces, Iraqi security forces, it's very slim. But you hear an uptick in U.S. troops that are taking place, I mean, that are taking place right now. And so I think it's all important that we understand that accountability measures are in place. 
   Now, Mr. Ryan, when we talk about accountable. It's interesting. On the prescription drug plan there were benchmarks. You had to be enrolled by a certain date. And if you weren't enrolled by a certain date then there would be penalties for not enrolling by a certain date. 
   It's very, very important that Americans and the Members of this Congress understand that anything, to bring about progress, has to have benchmarks and goals. 
   To kind of just say, well, hey, here's $1 million. Don't worry about it. We don't care if you provide what you say that you're going to provide. We don't care how you spend it. You use your own discretion. You spend it. We're not going to say anything. 
   Well, that's been the case for about 4 years in this Iraq war. And now we're saying that we want to march by a different drummer's beat, one of accountability, one of making sure the integrity of what we tell the American people is actually, you actually see it, you actually are able to follow through with that, what you said that you were going to do, that you actually do it, Mr. Ryan. 
   And the problem is that the President is finding himself having to be accountable. And I can tell you right now that the political question, it's not an issue here, because the election took place last November. The people have spoken, so we don't even need to get on that issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Reclaiming my time, Mr. Ryan, I thought you made some very good points when you read the comments from the general, when you talked about the Jefferson backdrop and all today. 
   General Petraeus, whom I know and I have seen in theater, which I have been to Iraq twice, yes, he is a man that we all feel very good about. We know that he is carrying out a mission on behalf of his country. But we should not ride on the back of his accomplishments as a general and a commander in the field to justify the policy that is being carried out by this administration. 
   I tell you this, Mr. Ryan, that historians, in the very near future, are going to look back at this time and are going to wonder where the leaders were when this war and this moment right now that we are speaking in was taking place. When I used to play football, we used to have a saying, ``The blind leading the blind and the two shall fall in the ditch.'' The bottom line is if you know that the policy has been wrong, the intelligence has been inaccurate, and that everyone that has left the administration has just about written a book about when the lie was told and how they heard it first and when it was said, I think it is important that people understand and that the Members of this House understand how history will reflect on your vote and your lack of leadership or your leadership. One of the two. If you want to listen to someone else, and I talked to my friends on the minority side, the Republican side. There are some of their former colleagues right now watching us in this debate here on the floor and wishing that they could take their vote back and stand up to the administration. Maybe, just maybe, they would still be in Congress. 
   Mr. Speaker, I will close on this point: The bottom line is that it is time for leadership. It is time for Members on both sides of the aisle and especially on the minority side of the aisle,  the Republican side of the aisle, to go see the wizard, get some courage, and come back to this floor and back the will of the American people for accountability for our men and women in harm's way and making sure that we hold to the integrity of what the President said he would do and making sure that we hold the Iraqi government's feet to the fire as though we would hold the mayor of Youngstown, Ohio's, feet to the fire or Sioux City, Iowa. We are going to hold their feet to the fire for Federal dollars. Why can't we hold Iraqi government's feet for Federal dollars? And the President is saying don't hold their feet to the fire and don't hold my words, whatever I have said in the past, as though I meant what I said. And the bottom line is that we have a responsibility. 
   So as we carry out that responsibility tomorrow morning at the White House, I hope that we are at the table of compromise but also holding to the integrity of what we originally sent to the President. 
   There has already been compromise. The language changed from when we passed it here on the floor and it went to the conference committee. Some language was changed then because the President didn't like it, and then it came to the floor and we voted for that. And now it is to the White House, and the President says he still doesn't like it. Now we are about to sit down again with the President to talk about these issues. And then maybe, just maybe, there may be another vote here on the floor and the President may say he still doesn't like it. 
   So when it comes down to the speech of who is letting the troops down, I think it is going to become more and more evident to the American people and to the Congress that we have a problem on the executive branch end of not being at the table of compromise for real on behalf of our men and women in uniform. We are doing our job. Let's continue to do it. 
   With that, Mr. Ryan, Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the leadership for allowing us to come here to address the American people in the U.S. House once again. It was a great honor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to come before the House once again. I think it's very important to know that we have half a week and next week to complete the people's business. We have a lot that we are working on right now in the United States, also; legislation to redeploy our troops in Iraq, passing a farm bill that would help America move forward, to continue to have legislation that has already passed this House in the Six in '06 plan that we put forth in the first 100 hours of this Congress, getting it through the process. We celebrate this week, just yesterday, I believe, the increase that started with the minimum wage across the country. Americans have a lot to be proud of with this new direction of Congress. 
   As you know, in any democracy, it has to be a bipartisan spirit to get the job done on behalf of the American people. We are trying to do that in the best way possible. 
   Our friends on the other side of the aisle, on the Republican side of the aisle, in many cases are stutter-stepping and slowing down the process, but it's very, very important that their voice is heard in this Chamber. I think the days upon days and the hundreds of amendments that have been offered here on the floor and that have been voted on is evident of how this Democratically controlled House has allowed the minority party to be able to have access that only they could celebrate in the 110th Congress, which we weren't able to celebrate under the 109th Congress. 
   I also want to point out the fact that we have passed over 40-something major legislation where we have had bipartisan support, and I think that's important. 
   One issue I want to talk about tonight, since our time is limited, of the amount of dollars that we are spending in Iraq as we continue to try to redeploy our troops. We know the September 15 date is coming up, the second report of progress, or a lack thereof, in Iraq will be due. Members of the House are going to have to vote on the defense appropriations bill shortly thereafter that will set the tone for the remainder of the fiscal year. 
   As you know, we passed off this floor on a bipartisan vote continuing an emergency supplemental that would allow 3 1/2 months of funding for the war in Iraq with MRAP tanks and other equipment that the troops needed. 
   I think Members had voted in the affirmative, Members had voted against it, both were courageous votes. I think it's time to move in a direction of policy. No permanent bases, I understand, will be coming up on the floor. We also have other legislation calling for the withdrawal of U.S. troops by a certain date. I think that's also important and very courageous. I think the debate that is going on in the Senate and the House, led by Democrats, are going to help us as we move towards the September 15 date. 
   As you know, and the Members know, I speak quite often on leaving politics behind and putting good policy forward, making sure that we don't act as Democrats and Republicans politically, I will say that again, rather than representing the American people. The American people are way ahead of us on this issue of Iraq. 
   I think it's important as we continue to share the information as we get in. This came from the Congressional Research Service. The cost of the war in Iraq is rising per year. You see the number in the billions, $120 billion per year, per month; $10 billion per week. We are looking at looking at $2.3 billion a day. We are looking at $329,000, we are looking at, per hour, as you see it relates per hour; the $13 million. I think it's important to look at per minute, $228,938 that's there in the thousands, and then we have $3,816 per second. I think it's important. 
   I think it's also important we look at those numbers, the cost per year, we look at the billions. We are looking at $120 billion per year. That can actually pay for 4.7 million EMTs and paramedics. When you look at it for a monthly cost at $10 billion, which we are spending in Iraq, you can actually provide EMTs or paramedics for your local community or for the Nation, 395,000. 
   When you look at the per-week cost, $2.3 billion, 91,000 EMTs and paramedics could be provided for local cities and counties and parishes; per day, at $329 million, 13,000; and per hour, $13.7 million that's spent that could actually fund 543 new EMTs. I think it's important, especially for those cities that are struggling and those counties that are struggling and States that are struggling on this very issue of how they are going to provide emergency service in their local community. 
   If you look at the cost of the war, could enroll more kids in Head Start. I think it's important for us to look at the $120 billion, 16.7 million kids can go into Head Start; per month at $10 billion, 1.7 million kids could go into Head Start; per week, $2.3 billion that's being spent in Iraq, 320,000 kids could actually be enrolled in Head Start where we have a shortage of funding and every kid can't receive Head Start opportunities where kids can start early and be healthy, and parents can have kids that will be prosperous educationally.     
   Per day, look at $329 million; 46,000 kids could benefit. And the per-hour cost that we are spending in Iraq at 13.7, 2,000 kids could be enrolled in the Head Start program. 
   As we start talking about health care insurance for children, I am just looking at these numbers as a member of the Ways and Means Committee and I am just thinking of how many kids we can actually do good things for and Americans. We just pulled a few of these things. 
   The cost of Iraq could send more Americans to college. You know the numbers by now. As you know, this is the year number at $120 billion, and the per-month is $10 billion, the per-week is $2.3 billion, per-day is $329 million, and per-hour at $13.7 million. 
   But look at this side, on the far side here, Mr. Speaker and Members, the numbers of students that could be helped: 21 million students in the one year that we spend there. So this means 21 million young people would have an opportunity to go to college, that is amazing, for what we are spending in Iraq right now; 1.7 million students per month can receive an education in the United States and make  us competitive, not States competitive with other States, but this country competitive with other countries. 
   I think it is also important if we can tie this chart in with that. I think it is also important that 395,000 students can be funded within a week of what we spend. I just know that financial aid officers at universities and at community colleges and at technical centers throughout the country are saying, wow, look at that number; 56,000 students could be funded per day. 56,000. Think about the kids that are paying student loans back that are having to go out and scratch and beg, and people that are punched in right now and grandparents and parents that have picked up an extra job to put their kids through school looking at these numbers as relates to this endless war, as the President sees it, in Iraq, we could actually help. And this is almost sad when it comes down to per hour. With the $13.7 million that is being spent in Iraq per hour, 2,000 students could actually receive an education. 
   I am going to break out from the charts and the numbers. But if you look at the foreign-owned debt and you start looking at countries like Japan that are holding a great number of our debt at the 644-plus million dollars, I think it is important. We owe Japan this money, we owe China money, we owe the U.K. money, we owe OPEC countries money because of the mismanagement of the Bush administration and the former rubber-stamp Republican Congress. Our kids, our young people, our country have to compete economically, have to compete as it relates to the level of education so that we can have a workforce that is better than the countries that we have borrowed money from, and I am not proud of that at all. 
   Just to tie in that chart, and I will get back to that Iraq issue, this is what is happening here. You have seen this chart before. We have updated this chart. Since President Bush has been in office, it has doubled the foreign-held debt. 
   It took 42 Presidents 224 years to build up $1 trillion in foreign-held debt. If you look, you have the pictures of the Presidents here, we are talking World War I, World War II, the Great Depression, you name it, a number of other wars that took place, the Civil War, and all of the conflicts that took place, and the hard financial times that the United States has gone through, these 42 Presidents combined, $1.01 trillion. President Bush was elected, had a rubber-stamp Republican Congress, and they borrowed within 6 years, we are saying 6 years, more than 224 years of history and other financial challenges of the country, $1.19 trillion. We are moving, Mr. Speaker, into a pay-as-you-go effort to be able to knock that down, and we are passing budgets that will get us back into. 
   Back to the cost of Iraq. And me being a former State trooper, Mr. Speaker and Members, I think this is important. Look, we know by now and we can see because I have said it about five times, the per-year, the per-month, the per-day, and the per-hour costs of the war in Iraq. 
   The per year at $120 billion, we can actually hire in this country 2.6 million police officers that could be community police officers to prevent crime, that could be officers that can enforce the law in high-crime areas, officers that can go out and do the things that they need to do to make this country safer. In one month that it costs us in Iraq, 221,000 officers could be hired. In one week in Iraq, 51,000 officers. 
   I am talking about folks that are in local communities that are literally under lockdown in urban and rural areas in the United States that are trying to protect their families and maybe have one or two State troopers in an entire county or State police officer in a parish or in an urban area. I represent down in Miami where you can go for a little while before you see a law enforcement officer. And to learn in one day that you can hire 7,000 police officers that it costs in Iraq, for the lack of the COPS bill that has been destroyed under the Bush administration and the past Republican Congress, that we are pushing in our past appropriations bills that we have passed thus far to rekindle that program so that we can have community policing, something that sheriffs, something that city police chiefs, something that local communities enjoy, because they prevent crime before it happens. And the per-hour cost, $3.7 million in Iraq per hour, could fund 304 police officers. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, it takes a lot of courage, it takes a lot of backbone to come to this floor to make sure that we do what the American people have asked us to do in making sure that we provide opportunities for local communities to fund the necessary needs that they have. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield to the distinguished Member from Florida (Mr. Hastings). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Congressman Hastings, I am so glad that you did come down and that you did share your sentiments. And you are right, the point that we are trying to make here is that we are going to have to bring an end to this war as we see it now. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it is also important for all of the Members on both sides of the aisle to realize that, especially under the pay-as-you-go philosophy that we have adopted as the House in the majority and the Senate has adopted, that things are going to be hard back home as it relates to getting Federal appropriations back to our districts. 
   There is really no need for us to be here if we can't bring resources back, if we can't represent the people that woke up early one Tuesday morning for representation to provide not only voice here in Congress but also action. And without money, it is hard to bring about that kind of action. 
   I think it is also, Mr. Speaker, very important that Members do note that many of the U.S. Governors, and I am not just talking about Democratic Governors, mainly Republican Governors, that have raised the issue with the Federal commitment to the States, the devolution of taxation that has been taking place over the last 6 years, especially under the Bush administration. 
   I just want to break that down a little further where taxes, quote/unquote, have been cut here for the very wealthy here in Washington prior to the Democratic Congress getting here, and that responsibility with the lack of  funding, Leave No Child Left Behind. I am not cutting the student loan rates in half, which we have already passed in our Six in '06 budget. But in the Republican Congress, those States had the balance. Here, under the 109th, under the Republican Congress, they could continue to raise that foreign-held debt that I talked about. They could just say, well, let's just put it on a credit card and leave it for the next generation and this generation to pay for it. But we decided here, in the Democratic leadership and society, that we are going to move in a responsible way and not leaning on the backs of our children and our families that exist now as we compete against other countries, not only in the area of technology, but also in the area of financial strength. 
   And I think that the posture that we are in now, Mr. Speaker, of what I showed on that chart on foreign-held debt, this chart illustrates the posture that we are in right now: $1.19 trillion. And these are not my numbers; these are the numbers from the U.S. Treasury. So this is not something that I sat down my staff and said, Let's see what looks good or sounds good, because we know as the 30-something Working Group that I would like to add my colleague here Mr. Hastings that I am a part of the ``something'' of the 30-something. But I think it is important for us to point at that and take note to it. 
   Now, if you are a conservative Democrat, Republican, Independent, you have to have issue with fiscal irresponsibility. If you are someone that feels very strongly as it relates to the supporting of the troops, I think it is important that you pay very close attention to the amount of money that is being spent in Iraq with the lack of accountability, only now that the Congress started holding hearings under the Democratic-controlled House, holding hearings to check the issues and the questions of the no-bid contracts, the lack of oversight over the years. There are a number of things that are coming to light now, Mr. Speaker, because the committees are having committee hearings, subcommittees are having hearings asking the tough questions, let's just say questions in general about the war in Iraq. 
   I don't want to be in a position, Mr. Speaker, to say, I told you so. I want to be in the position to say that we were able to prevent the taxpayer dollar from being spent in an irresponsible way. There are a number of things that have taken place. I am looking forward, Mr. Speaker and Members, going to Iraq in the next 6 weeks prior to the September 15 report to bring about my own assessment of what is going on there on the ground. 
   Mr. Speaker, I went in my district to the Federal Reserve Unit of the Combat Engineer Unit 841 that is actually being deployed into Iraq and will be there at the time that I visit Iraq. My talk with them, Mr. Speaker, was that I hope that this would be their last deployment to Iraq, and something that we need to hold close to us.     
   And now, Mr. Speaker, I want to point this out because when I talk about a bipartisan approach, I want to make sure that we talk fact not fiction here on the floor, and I don't want in any way to paint some sort of butterscotch cloud world. 
   But I think it's important that we take issue with the fact that this House and the Senate passed legislation that had benchmarks in it, legislation that had redeployment dates in it, legislation that had an end date for combat troops to patrol the streets of Iraq and other areas, and leaving that responsibility up to the Iraqi Government. 
   I'm mentioning combat troops because I think it's important that we pay very close attention to it. Right now, as we speak, Mr. Speaker, there are troops right now, marines, soldiers, other branches of the armed services that are going through door-to-door checks, not only in Baghdad but throughout Iraq on behalf of the safety of the people of those towns or province or what have you. 
   And every door we kick in, Mr. Speaker, because, as you hear, the President doesn't speak of coalition anymore because the coalition is gone. The coalition, in their own way, as small as the coalition was, found a way to start redeploying their troops out of combat into the periphery that we speak of so much to provide support where their troops will not be in harm's way, where their money commitment will not be at the level of our money commitment of the numbers that I called off a little earlier. And I think that is very, very important for us to pay very close attention to that. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it's important to note that when this House acted, and we passed legislation, and the Senate acted and they passed legislation in a bipartisan way, before that bill could even get bound to take to the White House, the President called some of our Republican colleagues down to the White House. They had a lunch and they came out of the White House. And it's not one Democrat in this picture here, and said that we're going to make sure that the President is able to withstand an override of his veto by the Congress. 
   Now, I'm not judging Members for going down to the White House and saying that. But I just want to make sure, because I believe that a number of Members have gone back to their districts and, you know, I'm not trying to call any names or party affiliation, but I'm just telling you, not one Democrat went down to the White House to stand with the President on his troop escalation plan. 
   But I think the November election was all about a new direction. And there's a difference between making sure that the men and women have what they need while they're in harm's way. There's a difference when it comes down to the fact that we here in the Congress have to put forth policy and parameters on the taxpayer dollars to make sure that it's being spent appropriately. 
   You heard Mr. Hastings, who's a member of the Intelligence Committee, also is involved in many of the European talks and is a leader in one of the largest parliamentary councils in Europe that were a part of the coalition that made his statements about what we know and why we're not bringing about the accountability that's needed. 
   I hold this picture up because I want to discourage Members from going to the White House on behalf of party. And I think it's important that we look at it from that standpoint. As I come in for a closing, Mr. Speaker, as we proceed over the next week and a half, we're going to spend many hours here on this floor. We're going to have a number of amendments. Tomorrow, as we mark up and start to put together the Children's Health Insurance Plan in the Ways and Means Committee, there will be a number of amendments, as we start looking at the Medicaid and Medicare benefits, who's going to get what when and how it's going to happen, there are going to be a number of amendments. And it's nothing wrong with amendments and dialogue and discourse. 
   But I believe that the issues that we have to tackle as a Congress, we're going to need that Republican bipartisan support, along with this Democratic leadership. 
   Minimum wage never would have been increased if it wasn't for the leadership of the Speaker and a number of the Democratic Members that held to their guns to make sure that everyday people that punch in and out, Mr. Speaker, while we're here on the floor, those individuals that are bussing tables, those individuals that are cleaning offices, those individuals that are working shift work, as a security officer or as an individual that's trying to provide for their families. 
   And even for salaried workers, Mr. Speaker, I think it's important when you look at the increase in minimum wage, it helps salaried workers because they'll make more money and they will be able to pay more for health insurance, additional insurance if they're insurance at their job doesn't provide what they need; and it also takes a number of families over the poverty line. 
   But as we look at this, I think it's important, there's only so many times that Republican Members can go down to the White House and say, Mr. President, I stand with you, versus standing with those individuals that have said that they want something overwhelmingly, like the minimum wage and other areas. We still had Members that voted against the increase in minimum wage, which I can't understand, still today.  
   So with that, Mr. Speaker, I look forward to continuing to share with the Members, not only the costs in Iraq, but also our responsibility here in Congress. I'm glad that, from the Speaker on down to the newest Member of Congress, that we have a philosophy that we have to push forward, that we have to make sure the American people not only have voice but action in this House. 
   I encourage my Republican colleagues to be along with us in that spirit and have the kind of paradigm shift that we need to put this country on the right track and to make sure that our men and women have what they need. 
   And I can tell you, from the families that I saw at the 841 who were moving on into Iraq, from what I picked up, if you want to help the troops, let's bring them home. And that's what it's all about. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I can tell you, Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz, it was definitely a pleasure hearing you speak as we were talking before in the cloakroom, in the back here, Mr. Speaker, we were talking about what happened here on this floor less than 2 hours ago. A major vote that took place here in this House. And it didn't pass by one or two votes. It only takes one vote to win as it relates to a bill or what have you, a resolution moving through the floor here. I just want to say that I am proud of the Members that voted in the affirmative for this bill. The emergency supplemental funding bill has started a new era as it relates to how Americans think about the war in Iraq, how our troops are being treated in Iraq and Afghanistan and even here back at home on health care services. And also it gave voice to those individuals that went to the voting booth looking for representation, looking for a new direction, looking for the Congress to carry out the kind of oversight that we should carry out as Members of Congress on behalf of any action that will involve the American taxpayer and in many cases involve foreign nations loaning money to the United States of America. We have to pay all of that back. We have to be accountable to the U.S. taxpayer. And we have to make sure that we provide the oversight for the American people. 
   Now, I heard Ms. Wasserman Schultz speak to the point. As some members came to the floor to vote against the bill, some voted against the bill because that's just what they do. They vote against war. They vote against whatever their philosophy may be as it relates to war, but also you had people that voted for the bill that is against war, that want to see an end to war. No other emergency supplemental up until the one that came before this House today actually put forth benchmarks for the Iraqi government to meet, actually hold the feet to the fire of the executive branch saying that if you are going to send additional troops, then the parameters that you put on the Iraqi government will actually be enforced. Department of Defense regulations as it relates to how troops can be deployed and the readiness of our troops before they go into theater. They wrote that in the Department of Defense, the administrator, bureaucrats, Secretary, what have you, in the Bush administration wrote those regulations. We put it inside this piece of legislation and enforced it. And also we made sure that Members had the opportunity to show their constituents where they stand. 
   Now, let's talk a little bit about that, because I heard the gentlewoman from Florida mention something, folks coming to the floor, saying things like, ``never before in the history of the country that we've ever voted to micromanage.'' They would use words like ``micromanage.'' ``We've never come to the floor to limit anything as it relates to war.'' 
   And when will we have a victory? 
   And that has never, ever, ever happened.     
   You know, I am in my office, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and I am watching these Members on the floor, and I spoke to this point last night, because last night I was here after 10, 10:30, I actually closed the House last night, moved to adjourn the House last night, and I couldn't help but try to get the evidence to show that it has happened. 
   As a matter of fact, timelines have been set by some of the very Republican leaders that are now in the Republican leadership right now that came to this well here today and had issue with what the majority of the Members of the House wanted to do and ultimately did in the vote. 
   Mr. Speaker, I just want to make sure, because this is what this whole 30-Something Working Group is about, making sure that we shed light where it needs to be. Let's look at this. 
   Bosnia, June 24, 1997, the House brought to the floor an amendment that would set a timeline and a date certain for withdrawal of U.S. peacekeepers from the mission in Bosnia. Pay attention to these dates. 
   On December 13, 1995, an attempt to prohibit funds from being used for the deployment of ground troops in Bosnia. It actually failed 210-218, which I have the names of those individuals that are in the Republican leadership now that voted in the affirmative to try to stop that from happening. 
   December 13, 1995, a resolution passed expressing serious concerns in opposition to the deployment of troops in Bosnia, where ethnic cleansing was taking place. Some of our same Members in the Republican leadership voted to pass that piece of legislation. 
   Again, June, there was also another vote that was taken on June 24, 1997, voted to set a timeline, date certain for withdrawal of troops from Bosnia, and that passed 278-148. The date certain that troops had to leave was June 30, 1998. 
   I am going to say it again. Some of the same individuals that voted today against, their reason for voting against  this emergency supplemental for the men and women in harm's way and the veterans to be able to receive the kind of healthcare they deserve, voted for a timeline in Bosnia. 
   Let's talk about the comparisons here. The Bosnia conflict was 18 months, Mr. Speaker. This conflict is 48-plus months, moving well into its fifth year. The cost of Bosnia to the United States of America, $7 billion. The cost of the war in Iraq, $379 billion and counting, well beyond $379 billion in U.S. taxpayer dollars and loan money. 
   Casualties in Bosnia, casualties in Bosnia, I repeat, zero of U.S. troops. Zero. Casualties as of 10 a.m. today in Iraq of U.S. personnel, troops, men and women in uniform, 3,229. I would even go further to say 13,415 wounded in action and have returned to duty. I would even go further by saying 10,772 wounded in action who cannot return back to duty. 
   I think it is important that we look at the facts. Again, I want to say we didn't come down here to play around, we came down here to share the facts, because we are both very busy people and we have things to do and this is the end of the workweek and Members are heading back to their districts. We want to go back to our districts too. But we want to make sure this moment of leadership, this moment of courage, is in the Congressional Record, to let it be known that we did have Members that stood up on behalf of our men and women in uniform and we had the men and women of this House that were in the majority that were willing to put their name and their vote on the line on behalf of the men and women that serve our country and their families. 
   I have the vote sheet here from the Bosnia vote. Every Republican voted yes for the timeline, with the exception of two. It is right here. Any Member that wants to run down to the floor and take a look at that, they can. 
   Also we have here the vote as it relates to passing the resolution that we had today, which is the emergency supplemental, roll call vote 186. I can say for the two Republicans who voted in opposite of the Republican leadership, when we took the vote on June 24, 1997, were consistent today of the only two Republicans that voted in the affirmative with the majority of the House to make sure that we place benchmarks and a timeline in Iraq. Consistency for those two Members, that anyone can find in the Congressional Record, and we commend them for their consistency. 
   So I think it is important, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, that we look at the hard facts here and the tough votes that need to be taken. Does everyone agree with what is in the emergency supplemental? I don't agree with everything that is in the emergency supplemental. But for the greater good of the men and women in harm's way, I voted for it. 
   There are Members in here who had a rough time and it was also very tough vote for them. But they didn't want to continue to look in the eyes of their constituents as they go to high school programs and junior high school programs and they are asked a question, as I am asked a question, and I don't ask folks for their voter registration, I don't ask, well, are you a constituent of mine or not? 
   The prevailing question is, Congressman, how long are we going to be in Iraq? I can't answer the question, because the President says we are going to be there as long as we need to be there. And, guess what? Those very same individuals, Democrat, Republican, independent, some individuals never voted before in their lives, went last November and voted for a new direction, voted for leadership, voted for an opportunity to have this Congress stand in the position that it should be standing, and that is oversight and accountability on behalf of the men and women that are in harm's way. 
   So I feel that the Members that voted in the affirmative, voted for outstanding healthcare, moving in the direction of outstanding healthcare for our veterans, making sure that our men and women when they are deployed, some of them are deployed 120 days after they return back to their family because some bureaucrat in the Defense Department says, well, we got to make sure we keep our rotation and our troop numbers, levels, up to over 143,000 troops on the ground. I know this brigade has only been home for a couple of months, three months, we have to get them back in the fight, when the Department of Defense regulations rule against that. 
   But I must add, Mr. Speaker, to make sure since we are having a moment of clarity, in this bill it allows the President, if it is within the national security interests that these troops go back into theater, he has the ability to do that, but report to Congress on that action. 
   So anyone that says we are binding the President, we are endangering the troops, the general can't do what he wants to do, that has nothing to do with it. That is nothing but rhetoric. That is nothing but good talking points for a crowd that you may want to get a cheer out of based on where you are. 
   But the reality and the hard-core facts are we have been sent up here to legislate and to bring about oversight, and that the President of the United States is not the only person that can make decisions on accountability and oversight. It is the U.S. Congress constitutionally and also it is our duty. 
   We are not in the forward area. We don't wear a uniform. But we have been sent here to make sure things go the way they are supposed to go on behalf of the men and women in harm's way. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Ms. Wasserman Schultz, when you think about it, you can't help but think about the debate that took place, and the vote has now happened. And again, Mr. Speaker, I commend those that worked very hard day in and day out to make sure that Members felt comfortable in voting for this legislation. 
   I think it is also mindful for us to remember, because so many times here in Washington, D.C., and even when we return back to our districts, I return back to sunny south Florida; Ms. Wasserman Schultz does the same. Some of us go to the far West. Some of us go to the Northeast, where it is very cold and frigid. Some of us go down to the Southwest and Arizona and Texas and some of the other areas of the great part of our country. Some of us from the gulf coast, some of us from the great Blue Mountains. 
   I think it is very, very important for us to remember that over 56 of our men and women in uniform died this month alone, and we are not even out of this month yet. Over 55 men and women wearing the uniform, some citizens, some non-citizens, some are from the west coast, some are from the east coast, some are from urban areas, some of them are from rural America. They are not coming back home. Their memory will ever be in our minds and in our hearts. And we appreciate their paying the ultimate sacrifice. We pray for their families. And we stand on their behalf here today in making sure that we can bring the kind of accountability forward to this government and to the Iraqi Government, and to make sure that those that are in harm's way have what they need when they need it. 
   Also, what is in this bill, and I think it is very, very important because I want Members to not only go home and talk about that they voted for, the majority of this House, which was good, but for those who voted against it, I want not only them, but I want their constituents to know what they voted against. This is serious business. I have a lot of friends here in this Chamber. I don't know of a Member of the House that I have a negative relationship with that I don't talk to that person or that person doesn't talk to me. I get along. I am second generation here in this House of Representatives; my mother served here. But this is serious business when we start talking about the sacrificing that U.S. families are making to bring about some sort of harmony in the middle of a civil war in Iraq. 
   So the vote that took place today, Mr. Speaker, is a vote in the right direction and in a new direction, to let it be known that this House of Representatives is willing to play a role in the oversight of the U.S. taxpayer dollar, and also on behalf of those that are in harm's way right now. 
   Ms. Wasserman Schultz, I am glad that she is a member of the Appropriations Committee because they spent a lot of time with this legislation, this emergency supplemental. It is probably going to be the last time that we have an emergency supplemental outside of the regular budget process. And speaking of the budget, Mr. Speaker, we are going to be debating the budget here on this floor next week. We are going to have a great discussion about where our priorities are as Americans and the things that are important to the financial standing of the country and where we are going to make the kind of investments that we need to make on behalf of this great country of ours. 
   It is also important to understand next week that is tied in with this bill that we are going to also consider the Wounded Warriors bill that is going to be coming up next week, which is 1538, for consideration before this House that I must add that passed Armed Services Committee this week with a unanimous vote, to make sure that we correct some of the issues that are dealing with our veterans. And we are going to deal with H.R. 1401, that is the Rail Security Act that will be coming up next week. 
   This is serious business, and we have to be very serious about what we do here. And I want to make sure that this vote will be seen as one of the many. 
   Now, we had a vote, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, about a month ago that folks criticized, the vote to say that we are against the escalation, against the President's escalation of troops in Iraq. Seventeen Republicans voted with the majority of the House Members on that. Obviously, 15 of those Republicans decided to vote against the binding resolution. Remember all those, oh, it's nonbinding, it really doesn't mean anything; why are you doing this? Why are you spending a whole week of debate? Even the President said, oh, it's nonbinding. And the President said at that time a binding resolution will be coming which will be the emergency supplemental. I want to know the House of Representatives' stand on the binding resolution. 
   Well, that message is clear today where we stand. And I think that in the Senate, with the passage of the legislation even has a shorter time line passed the Appropriations Committee last night than what the House is calling for, I think the issue of a time line and benchmarks are going to be in that legislation when it goes to the President. Now, the President is saying that he is going to veto it. Well, that is all a part of his right to do so. But I think the American people and Members of this Congress have to rise up. If the President is not willing to lead us in a new direction as it relates to Iraq, then we may need to lead the President. That is the reason why we have a democracy. That is the reason why we have an executive branch and a legislative branch. That is the reason why men and women who no longer can walk on two legs now paid the price for us to have this democracy that we celebrate here today, which I don't take  lightly. That is the reason why this specialist here, that covers the page of Newsweek, paid with her legs. She is a patriot. 
   So if Members or anyone has a problem with the way our democracy is working, then you have a problem with America. I am glad that I am free and able to stand here on this floor to say that what took place here today is a great testimonial to that democracy. And just because you said that you are going to do one thing doesn't necessarily mean that you have to follow through on it to show folks that you are tough. 
   You have folks coming to the floor saying, well, by passing this emergency supplemental, it will waive the white flag. What white flag? Okay. Continuing to do the same thing expecting different results? The Speaker of the House took the well here earlier, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and said there have been three other escalations of troops in Iraq and the same outcome is the fact that 
   we lost more troops in the middle of the battle, in the middle of a civil war, and that did not turn the security situation around on the ground. 
   What did the Iraq Study Group say? They said that diplomacy is going to be the number one key in dealing with this. What did Mr. Murtha say, a decorated marine and chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee? This is a diplomacy issue, and we need to make sure that the Iraqi Government stands up not only on behalf of their country, but for the region and provide the kind of leadership that they deserve. 
   For every day we are in Iraq, Mr. Speaker and Members, that is a day that a U.S. city will not receive the kind of appropriations that it needs to be able to provide the quality of life that the U.S. taxpayers deserve. It is another day that we won't be able to fully implement all the 9/11 recommendations and be able to provide the kind of funding to secure the homeland. It means that what we pay now on the debt that the Republican Congress and the Bush administration has given us, that we will not have enough money to pay down on that debt, just on the debt of the money that this country has borrowed, and which is more than what we invest in education, more than what we invest in homeland security, more than what we invest in veteran affairs. 
   So I think it is important that this paradigm shift that took place here today is recognized as one of the great days of the U.S. House of Representatives and moving in a new direction, Ms. Wasserman Schultz. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, we have all worked very hard this week to see the positive outcome of the legislation today. 
   As I started, I would like to close in my comments today by saying that I am glad that the Members voted in the affirmative for this legislation that passed. I think the American people will reflect on this day, and historians will reflect on this day that this has been the first day by the House of Representatives since the start of the war in Iraq that there were true accountability measures in there. There is reporting back to the Congress that the troops were protected by the language that the Department of Defense used as relates to its own policy of deploying troops, of sending troops back into theater on another rotation of what they have to have. I think men and women in uniform and their families will be forever appreciative of our action here today. 
   It is like when you are working at a work site, not at headquarters, you are working in a subsidiary, and you know there are certain policies management is supposed to meet, but because nobody is watching, they decide to waive the policy manual and have you work overtime without being paid overtime, or have you working in conditions that you should not be working in just to keep their numbers up so they don't get in trouble with their bosses. 
   Well, with the emergency supplemental that we passed here today, we have the backs of those workers. In this case, we have the backs of the men and women who wear the uniform. 
   Furthermore, I think it is important for those who have served in a battle zone that we have started down the track of making sure that we provide the kind of funding so when they get back, they will be able to get the counseling that they deserve. There is money in here to prevent abuse as it relates to children and families when they get back to military bases, and there is money to make sure that veterans don't have to wait months to be able to see a specialist. I think it is very, very important because there is a back end to this war, and there is a reality to this war, and it is our responsibility to ensure there is assistance to those who need it when they come back. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want to commend the American people for the role that they have played during this whole war. This week here at the Capitol we had people that were supporting the war, and against war but saying we have to support our troops. And I commend both of them for exercising their rights as Americans to be able to speak to their government about their feelings. I am glad that we live in a country that you can do that. 
   I am glad that Members did come to the floor. Some of them voted their conscience, some voted partisanship, and some voted because it was the right thing to do on behalf of this legislation. 
   As we move on with this process of bringing accountability to the war in Iraq and bringing an end to the war in Iraq with troops on the ground, that Members continue to pay attention to what our democracy is all about. I commend the Speaker for standing in the wind, getting bugs in her teeth on this issue and being tough on this issue even when we were in the minority. Now we are in the majority, and I think the American people are going to be very appreciative. 
   I thank the gentlewoman from Florida for hosting this hour today. It is always an honor to come to the floor and talk about the actions of today and look forward to tomorrow. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to come before the House once again. And as you know, the 30-Something Working Group, we come to the floor two, three, sometimes four times in a given week, in a legislative week, to share with the Members some of the issues that we are working on and some of the issues that we must tackle here in the 110th Congress. 
   As you know, the work of the 30-Something Working Group has been going on now for, going on close to 4 years of hard work and making sure that not only the will of the American people prevails in this House, the people's House, this U.S. House, but to make sure that we act, we legislate in an accountable way; also bring about the kind of oversight, and put us on the new direction that we need to be in several of the areas that we face now, such as Iraq, such as making sure that we have affordable health care, making sure that we have a clean environment, making sure that we take care of our veterans. And fiscal responsibility is the backdrop of the overall accountable flag that we stand under. 
   Mr. Speaker, a lot has happened in the last couple of weeks, and a lot has happened since the 110th Congress took control of the U.S. House of Representatives, Democratic control, and working in a bipartisan way. 
   I spent a lot of time on the floor in the past talking about the bipartisan votes that have taken place here on this floor because I think that it is something that we should all be proud of. I am not talking about proud Democrats. I am talking about Republicans, Independents that are paying attention to this process, Democrats, first time voters. Individuals that are thinking about voting should be encouraged about the spirit that we have here in the U.S. House of Representatives and making sure that we bring work products that a majority of the Members can vote for, and that means Democrats and Republicans. 
   These are a few of the votes that I just want to highlight here once again: implementing the 9/11 Commission recommendations, H.R. 1, which was the first bill, Mr. Speaker, we spoke of that we had the opportunity to lead. When I say ``we,'' I am saying the Democratic majority, to be able to bring to the floor, which was a bipartisan 9/11 Commission. And it was a book that many read, and one of the New York Times bestseller books. Passed 299-128, with 68 Republicans voting for it. 
   Raising the minimum wage, H.R. 2, which was the second bill in this 110th Congress, this Democratic Congress that came up. Again, we must be reminded that the vote was 315-116, with 82 Republicans voting with the Democrats on that particular measure. 
   Funding for enhancement of stem cell research, H.R. 3, again, bipartisan vote, 253-174.  
   Making prescription drugs more affordable for seniors, H.R. 4, 255-170, which is a majority vote in a bipartisan manner. 
   Something that really means a lot to the 30-Something Working Group, reversing the increase of interest rates to students and also American families that are trying to educate themselves to take advantage of the high-tech jobs that we are trying to provide, and also the skilled labor jobs that we are trying to generate here in our economy, cutting student loans, interest rates in half, which was H.R. 5, which passed by 356 votes to 71. 
   Mr. Speaker, I just want to really make a case in point as it relates to that particular vote because young people are our future, and even working, some folks think that many of our students graduate from high school and they go right into college. We have many working Americans that have to work and go to school at the same time, or have to work and then go to school later. And they have to take out these student loans. And cutting that interest rate in half is going to mean so much to the forward progress of our young people and our middle-age population that is trying to educate themselves to compete, not only with the person that is standing next to them, but compete against other countries. 
   And so our education, the education of the people of the United States of America is paramount. And I am so happy to see, and this was one of the major objectives of the 30-Something Working Group, not to just represent those that are graduating from high school, but to also represent those parents that are trying to pay for higher education for their children. 
   The greatest goal, I think, for a grandparent or a parent is to make sure that their children and grandchildren have better opportunities than what they have had. And I am excited about that opportunity that so many are going to have. Now, we have moved here in the House to cut those interest rates in half. 
   Also, creating long-term energy initiatives, which was H.R. 6, which passed 264-168, bipartisan vote, something that was needed as it relates to using subsidies for alternative fuels. Making sure that we invest in the Midwest versus the Middle East is something that we have all embraced and something that we all feel very strongly about. 
   I am going to keep sharing that, Mr. Speaker, because I think it is important. In the 109th Congress, I spent a lot of time here working with the 30-Something Working Group talking about the uncontrollable debt that the Republican Congress kept accruing on behalf of future generations. And I talked about that, and it was a chart, and I had a rubber stamp. But I am going to talk a little bit more about it as we start to look at this question of accountability, the question of oversight, the whole slogan of moving in a new direction, fiscal responsibility. 
   And I just want to make sure that I paint this picture, because what we are talking about now in the 30-Something Working Group, we used to talk about what we, if we had the opportunity to lead, what we will do. Now we are talking about what we are doing. 
   But to be able to really paint a good picture, Mr. Speaker, for not only the Members to understand, but also the American people to understand, this is where we are right now, and we didn't just get there last week. 
   As it relates to foreign debt held by foreign nations, this is as of December 2006. We updated this chart because we had numbers in place. As you know, we had the little Velcro numbers, which I understand that we are going to get that soon so that we can pull it off to really show what is happening here. 
   We have Japan, that owns a part of the American apple pie at $644.3 billion. And I think that it is important to understand that they buy our debt. That means they have a piece of the American pie because of a lack of fiscal responsibility, because the President has passed budgets down that has asked for tax cuts for the super-wealthy, that we spent out of control with a lack of accountability and oversight, with two wars that are going on, just continuing to borrow the money with very little oversight. 
   I am setting the stage for a little later on in our talk here today. 
   We have China. As of 11/05 it was $249.8 billion. And now, as of December 2006, China has moved up to $349.6 billion. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it is also important, and I want to ask staff if we can get that Bush chart with the Republican Congress if we have that because I want to just show how historical these numbers are, because one may say, well, you know, there are a couple of wars going on. We have had 9/11. We have had a number of issues. 
   I have a chart that is really going to show that that is contrary, that logic is contrary to the obvious of what has happened.     
   It is because the administration has decided to borrow from future generations and the present generation where the economic outlook for our children and grandchildren would not be what it should be because of our lack of responsibility. Thank God that we have a Congress in place right now that is going to put accountability first. Fiscal responsibility we have already adopted in our rules and continue to live under that flag of oversight and a new direction: $349.6 billion; the U.K., $239.1 billion; the Caribbean, $68 billion; Taiwan $63.1 billion. OPEC nations, again, these are oil-producing nations in the Middle East, Mr. Speaker. Many of these nations the United States have bilateral talks and agreements with, but many of them are in question as it relates to the present situation in the Middle East. But guess what? They own a piece of the American apple pie. I don't even want to start to talk about gas prices and what is happening as it relates to OPEC nations. You have $67.8 billion as of 11/2005. And now, Mr. Speaker, December of 2006, OPEC nations, they have gone up in owning more of the American apple pie due to a lack of fiscal responsibility on behalf of the Bush administration and the past Republican Congress. Of the budgets that they have passed, they now own $100.9 billion of the American apple pie. 
   Korea, $70 billion; Hong Kong, $53.9 billion; Germany, $52.5 billion. 
   I think it is important that we pay very close attention to those numbers, and that is something that we should be very concerned about and continue to keep our eye on the prize so that we spend in a fiscally responsible way and that we make sure that we are accountable to the American people. And I feel good about the fact that we have a majority that is willing to fight on behalf of the greater good to make sure that we work on behalf of all of the American people. 
   Now, this chart is a little old, Mr. Speaker, because these actually have the 2005 numbers, and we are updating it. This is something I feel very fond of because I always said that this chart is going to end up being a part of the national archives one day because it really shows a story, and it is factual. 
   President Bush in 4 years, in 4 years, has managed to borrow more from foreign nations than 42 Presidents in 224 years of history. Now, these are 2005 numbers. I mean, I just want to make sure that we understand that these are 2005 numbers. So the numbers are higher now. Forty-two Presidents, look at them. All the way from George Washington, they were only able to borrow $1.01 trillion. President Bush and the Republican Congress, the 108th Congress and 109th Congress, borrowed $1.05 trillion in just 4 years. 
   Now, one would say, how can that happen, Mr. Speaker? How do these countries, China of all countries, Red China, own so much of the American apple pie? 
   Well, I can tell you how it happens. It has happened because the past Republican Congress rubber stamped everything that the Bush administration sent to this floor at the objection of so many Members of the House. 
   But now the proper leadership has stepped forward and said that we are going to pay as we go. So that means that this budget process will be more controlled than it has ever been in recent history of saying that, if you are going to spend, you are going to show how you are going to pay for it. Not where you are going to get it from because we know where they got it from. They borrowed it. It is like taking out a high-interest credit card and saying, I am knowingly and willingly using this high-interest credit card to carry out spending that I know I can't afford to spend. I know this. I mean, it is not  that it is an emergency. In the budget that the President has sent to this U.S. House of Representatives, the Bush administration budget, it is saying, let us make the tax cuts permanent for the super wealthy. Meanwhile, these countries that I outlined are paying for that tax cut. And I think it is important that we look at that. That is the fiscal responsibility end of the talk here today. 
   I think it is also important for us to realize the discussion that we are having now on Iraq, Mr. Speaker. We talked about oversight. We talked about accountability. But to date, as of last week, last Friday, there have been 81 hearings on the issue of oversight and accountability on Iraq, across the committees in the House. And I think it is important that the Members pay very close attention to this because, as these hearings continue to happen, we have learned more about what is happening in Iraq, what is happening in Afghanistan, what is happening with our troops here and our veterans here on the ground; hearings were not happening at this rate in the past. 
   Again, one of the obligations of the 30-Something Working Group is to make sure that everyone and every Member of the House understands that we are here to work, that we are here to make sure that accountability blows through the air conditioning ducts here in the hospital House. 
   Why are we spending so much time talking about Iraq? Next week there will be a supplemental that will be in committee, and it will be marked up. What we call a markup, that means that there will be a discussion about what goes into that supplemental bill. There will be appropriations, some $100 billion-plus, that will be in this bill, from what I understand. Why are we spending so much time having so many conversations about what should be in that bill? 
   This is why, Mr. Speaker: On March 8, as of 10 a.m., 3,178 U.S. troops died; dead, period. As of March 9, which is today, Mr. Speaker, 10 a.m., we have 3,186 troops that are dead. Now, I said, 3,178, as of yesterday, 10 a.m. Today, as of 10 a.m., 3,186. That is the reason why, Mr. Speaker, so many Members are spending time focusing on this issue of Iraq accountability and benchmarks on behalf of the American people and those that are in harm's way. That is not a Democratic issue. That is not a Republican issue. That is not an Independent issue. That is an issue that should be dealt with at the U.S. Congress, and it is going to take 
   courage and leadership and commitment and some tenacity to bring about the kind of change that needs to happen to make sure that those individuals that have died in the line of duty, that their memory is not in vain, and that we accomplish and we have benchmarks and we take the training wheels off the Iraqi government, period, dot. I can't sugarcoat it. It is what it is, and it has to be laid out that way for folks to understand, for the Members to understand, I must add, that it is very important. This conversation and this debate and the discourse that is taking place in committee, it is very serious, and it should be above politics. 
   The American people sent a very strong message in November. Democrats and Republicans, I am just going to say, the American people, period, sent a very strong message in November that they wanted to move in a new direction. They want more accountability. They want more oversight out of this U.S. House of Representatives. And they understand what is going on in the White House. There are places where Republicans won elections by landslides in the past. And guess what? In the November election, you couldn't elect a Republican as far as the eye can see or within eight or nine area codes because of the lack of oversight and accountability that was not carried out here in this House in the last couple of sessions of Congress versus this session. 
   Why is this issue important? As of 10 o'clock today, 23,924 wounded and 10,627 of those cannot return to battle or to duty. 
   What is in this so-called Defense supplemental bill? Some may talk about benchmarks. I want to talk a little bit about what is in the bill or what is going to be in the bill as the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee starts to what we call mark up and create this bill. The Speaker has said that U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act will provide our troops with equipment they need and require Iraqis to take control of their own country, help fight the war on terror and establish a date of withdrawal from Iraq. 
   Well, what is wrong with that? What is wrong with making sure our troops have what they need when they go to war? Mr. Speaker, I came to the floor 2 weeks ago because I happened to pick up the paper, and I saw some Members were complaining about the fact that the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee was looking to put language in the bill that said, if you are going to deploy a troop into harm's way that that soldier or that troop, that Marine or that sailor or that airman or that Coast Guard person, National Guard, Reserves, you name it, that they have to have the equipment they need to carry out the mission. What is wrong with that? That is almost like sending a football player out in the field without a helmet and shoulder pads and saying, go play. This is serious business. And I named the number of those that are wounded and have died, and I can guarantee you, if we had had some of the language that we are talking about in place, maybe, just maybe, a number of those individuals would be living today. It is important. We are not four-star generals. We are Members of Congress. And we have been sent here to make sure that we are accountable to those that have signed up in a volunteer Army and a volunteer Marine Corps and a volunteer Navy and a volunteer Air Force to go defend this country and that have allowed us to salute one flag. It is our responsibility and our duty. And while we carry out that responsibility and duty, one may be misunderstood every now and then. And if it is about being misunderstood, then that means that you are not leading. 
   My mother served in this Congress, Mr. Speaker, prior to my arrival here, and she said, ``Son, if you are not misunderstood from time to time, you are not leading.'' 
   I am glad to pick up periodicals, and I am glad to see the kind of discourse that is taking place on television, folks talking about what the Congress is doing, because you know something? At least we are doing something about the status quo. No longer will this House stand by, Mr. Speaker, and watch those that are unelected carry out the duties that the Congress should be carrying out. 
   I have been on the Armed Services Committee now three Congresses, Mr. Speaker, and I can tell you many times I sit there and I watch individuals that are on the panel before us, and I kind of want to ask the question, but I don't want to be sarcastic by saying, I hope you are not filling me with confidence that the troops have everything they need. 
   When I came to Congress, we went into Iraq. I wasn't here for the vote to go or to give the President authority or what have you, but I was here, and I remember asking the question, are we ready for this guerrilla warfare once we reach Baghdad? That answer was, ``yes.'' Do we have the equipment in place? That answer was, ``yes.'' Do we have up-armored vehicles in place? That answer was, ``yes.'' 
   News report after news report, document after document this big, Mr. Speaker, says the contrary. Two trips to Iraq represents something different from what I heard here in a committee room in the Rayburn Building that the troops have what they need. Well, guess what? We no longer want to go off of what someone tells us in Washington, D.C., that is happening or not. We want the President to have to be able to confirm that there is a need for additional troops or to send additional troops to Iraq. We want to make sure that the troops know that there is a Congress here that is going to put that language in place to make sure they have what they need. 
   I can't tell you how many marines and how many soldiers told me, sir, with all due respect, sir, I will be here as long as you want me here, but I went on a patrol the other night, and I didn't have the proper equipment. I didn't have the up-armored vehicles. And it takes a Member of Congress to go to someone and say, I heard a patrol went out last night and didn't have what they needed.     
   We are not trying to make command decisions on the ground. We are just trying to make sure the men and women have what they need. 
   Also within this supplemental that we are looking at is legislation that prohibits the deployment of troops that are not fully mission capable as defined by the Department of Defense. In other words, troops who are not fully trained, equipped and protected by the standards of the Department of Defense will not go. 
   Now, this is what the Department of Defense has asked for. Why can't the Congress then back up the Department of Defense and say we agree with you, even though we know you have not been practicing some of the things that you have adopted as policy? 
   The President can only deploy unprepared troops if he certifies in writing to Congress that the deployment of those troops are in the national interest. That means it is imperative that we send troops that are untrained and unprepared into harm's way. The President has to confirm that it is within the national interest that that should happen. That is not taking his powers away as Commander in Chief, it is just putting in another level of accountability, making sure that the President knows that there is a Congress here that is willing to carry out the accountability and the oversight that is needed. 
   It also provides that the Veterans Administration has to meet the obligations of the new generation of veterans that will be coming out of two of these wars. 
   There are two wars going on, Mr. Speaker. A lot of folks forget. Iraq? Okay. Afghanistan. But guess what? There are two different wars going on. Because of the lack of planning in the Iraq war, troops were sent to Iraq from Afghanistan, and guess what? The Taliban is back and strong in Afghanistan. Now we need more troops, more coalition troops, because of the decisions that were made in a Congress that did not provide the oversight that it should have provided to make sure that we brought about ultimate accountability. I think it is important that we endorse the philosophy that we are going to prepare for what is to come. 
   It is time for the Iraqis to take control of Iraq. We say it all the time. In this bill, the bill will require that the Iraqi government has to meet key security, political and economic benchmarks that were established, Mr. Speaker, by the President of these United States on January 10 when he addressed this Congress. What is wrong with that? The President said if it doesn't happen, then they will see a withdrawal and we will not be there forever. I am paraphrasing. This is what the President said. 
   Now, being a Member of Congress, now going on my third term, I think it is very important for us to understand, there are some things that the President has said during the State of the Union that ended up being reality, or becoming reality, and there are a lot of things that he said that did not. 
   I trust the fact that the Commander in Chief and Members of Congress will not send someone into war unprepared. I will trust that. I would want to believe that. But we know that it has happened, where we failed our troops as it relates to getting them what they need. 
   But I think it is important for us to understand, Mr. Speaker and Members, it is very, very important that we put in the language of this supplemental, which I must add, let me break this down more, when I say defense supplemental bill, that means this is an appropriations bill that is going to be $100 billion that will go towards operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and in other parts of the world as it relates to this issue of fighting terrorism. But it should not be a blank check. It should not be a one line bill. 
   Some would like to leave it up to the Pentagon. Leave it up to folks who we don't have any idea, the public, who they are. Unelected individuals. Leave it up to them. They know what is best. They are the professionals. 
   Well, I believe in professionalism too. But when I go down to the Seventeenth Congressional District of Florida and my constituents ask me, Congressman, what did you do to make sure that my tax dollar is being spent appropriately? ``Well, they just said send the money. I thought it was important. We just voted and let them deal with it.'' 
   It is not an us and them. It is a we. And when money is spent in an inappropriate way, when you have companies like Halliburton and other contractors that are under investigation, I must add, that are still receiving contracts, U.S. Federal contracts, the taxpayer dollar, then we have to have accountability. 
   Now, I don't know anyone that really has a problem with that. I can go to a rally of conservative to the right of the right of the right Republicans and ask them, do you want accountability measures in a $100 billion-plus supplemental bill, or do you just want us to pass it and say leave it up to whoever is making the decisions in whatever department they are in with no-bid contracts and allow some of the things that happened in Iraq, when companies get a flat tire and then they torch the truck and we buy a brand new tractor-trailer because it was better for the company if they just replace the truck. Which one do you want? Do you want accountability measures in it? Do you want benchmarks in it? Do you want to have hearings? 
   Do you see the number? Oh, goodness, I am glad the staff changed this for me, Mr. Speaker. It is that quick. I started talking about last week's numbers. I get new numbers. Ninety-seven hearings held on Iraq oversight. Do you want this? Or do you want seven hearings? Which one do you want? Do you want 96 hearings, or do you want seven? 
   We have Members around here complaining saying, oh, well, you know, I don't necessarily like all this, you know, what is going on. 
   Well, it is our job. When we have two wars going on and we have the kind of lack of fiscal responsibility that has not been taking place here in this House prior to the arrival of the Democratic controlled Congress, you have to sleep in shifts. You have to make sure you do what your obligation is, to have oversight. 
   I think it is important to be able to make sure if the Iraqis fail to meet the benchmarks, that it will mean the beginning of a U.S. withdrawal and that it will also restrict economic aid to the Iraqis. 
   The bottom line is, you cannot reward bad behavior or lack of good behavior. You can't reward that. You can't say, well, no, that is okay, that is fine. Take your time, whatever the case may be. Don't worry about it. 
   I'll tell you, there are some Iraqi forces that are fighting. There are some Iraqi forces that are doing some good things. But there are some folks within the Iraqi government that do not understand the urgency we have here. 
   The longer we are in Iraq, the more I have to tell my U.S. mayors, my Governors, my school board members, my constituents, no, I cannot help you with your project. No, I cannot help you, Governor, as it relates to the transportation dollars to help Florida become even a stronger State in the United States of America. Mr. Mayor, I know it is important that we have security in our community. Mr. Sheriff, I know it is important that you want that COPS Program back. But guess what? We have two wars going on. We got a tax cut for the super-wealthy that the President of the United States wants, and we are too busy fighting them on that. And meanwhile, we got folks foot dragging over in Iraq about accountability. They don't have any urgency. Some folks don't even have the urgency we have here in the United States. 
   This is snatching bread and butter out of the mouths of U.S. taxpayers and their children. Do you know why the interest rates went up on the student loans? To be able to pay for tax cuts for the super-wealthy, and to also continue the business of saying let's just rubber stamp supplementals and send it to the President of the United States and the Bush administration and the Department of Defense. And it took an election to bring about the kind of paradigm shift and the thinking that we should have done on our own as responsible adults and elected to U.S. Congress. It took an election to do that. 
   Thank God for democracy. Thank God for level-minded Americans saying I am going to put my party aside for a  moment. I have to stand up on behalf of my children, because this is now becoming personal. You have veterans that have served and that have fought and that have allowed us to salute one flag who are just turned, totally, politically about who they sent to Congress, and they made a change. And we are not going to sit there and allow their vote and their prayer and their hope that there will be change here in Washington, D.C., and just sit by and say we want to go along to get along. 
   Someone says something about maybe I am doing the wrong thing, and who am I to try to govern a war from Washington, D.C.? It is not governing a war. It is bringing about the kind of accountability that the American people have cried and have asked for. 
   The Bush administration and the Republican majority in the past are far, far behind where the American people are. And if we have to drag, pull, through this House and push legislation through to bring us up-to-date to where the American people are, that is what we were sent here to do. And Members who don't want to be a part of that experience, they have to go home and they have to face their constituents. 
   Believe what I am telling you right now. It is not just individuals that are walking around with flowers and saying ``I don't believe in war'' that are saying that we have to bring some accountability to what we are doing. There are individuals that work hard, individuals that have retired, individuals that are looking for a better future for their family. You have local government officials that don't even know how they are going to survive from this point on because we are sitting around here cutting taxes for individuals who are not even asking for tax cuts. 
   Mr. Speaker, let me say this: Super-wealthy billionaires that are not even marching the halls of Congress and saying please give me a tax cut, they are not asking for it. The Republican Congress just gave it to them. 
   So this paradigm shift, I want to prepare the Members, Mr. Speaker, that it is going to take some courage, and it is going to take some leadership, and we are going to be misunderstood. But you know something? Time after time again, history has reflected on leadership in a good way. 
   I can tell you right now, a perfect example, Mr. Speaker, and then I am going to move to the next point, when the Walter Reed story broke about what was going on at Walter Reed, and the Newsweek cover of this specialist here, this amputee that served and the kind of treatment that our soldiers were receiving at Walter Reed, the vindication for the Democratic majority was the fact that before this article came out, before we even knew of a Washington Post story, or probably even before the reporter started working on the story, we had an appropriation continuing resolution that we had to pass because the Republican Congress did not do their job and pass their appropriations bill, and we put $3.6 billion towards veteran healthcare because it was the right thing to do. 
   And the good thing about it is that I could stand here on this floor without any Member being able to march down here and say otherwise, that we did what we had to do because we had the opportunity to do it. And that is what is so good about good leadership. 
   I am glad Nancy Pelosi is the Speaker of the House, and if there are some Members that have a problem with that, then they have a problem with leadership, because this could have happened last year, it could have happened the year before last. 
   The Bush administration has passed time after time again budgets that have cut veterans healthcare. Again, Bush Republicans, see this, Mr. Speaker, I am going to tell you right now, I can't think of anything else I could be doing outside of making this point right now. This is very, very important. And I want my Republican colleagues to be with us on this change that we are working on. I want our new Members in Congress to understand their responsibility as it relates to the American people and what they sent us here for. 
   We have to have resolve, just like the men and women on the front line have resolve. We have to have resolve, just like the veterans who went out there and laid their lives down and watched their friends pay the ultimate sacrifice. We have to have that same resolve. We have to have that political courage, like they have to have the courage to go outside the gates of Camp Victory in Iraq. 
   We have to have that same resolve here in this House. We cannot allow someone just because they say something about you or they think something about you when you are right, that you are going to turn around, just because someone on the minority side, on the Republican side, is saying well, look what they are trying to do. 
   Well, you know something? I say to my Republican colleagues, in all due respect, and many of them are my friends, especially the leadership, the bottom line is when you are pointing your finger and saying look at what they are doing, you need to be looking in the mirror and saying you had the opportunity to do it and you didn't do it, and we are not getting back in the same boat that you just got out of. We are going to do it. We are going to grab a paddle and we are going to go down the stream. 
   Summer of 2005, at the Democrats' pressure, the Bush administration finally acknowledged that FY 2006 shortfall in veteran healthcare was totaling $2.7 billion and Democrats fought all summer to get it. 
   March 2006, President Bush budget cut veteran funding by $6 billion over 5 years. Passed by the Republican-controlled Congress.     
   January 31, 2007, Democrats increase VA health care budget by $3.6 billion in a joint resolution funding. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, I tell my colleagues who are against that kind of action to go home and tell your constituents that you are against that. I welcome you to do it because you won't be a Member of Congress anymore. I am so glad I was on the prevailing side of $3.6 billion going into veterans' health care. 
   I say all of that because we use key words like accountability, oversight. We talk about a new direction and fiscal responsibility. I can tell you, there are many times here on this House floor that Members are going to have to go see the wizard and get some courage. That courage is very easy because the American people are egging on this kind of spirit that is in Washington, D.C., right now. 
   I think it is important that, even after all of the articles and even after all of the talk about what went on at Walter Reed dealing with our veterans, that the Democratic-controlled Congress sprung into action, not weeks, not months down the road, not years down the road, sprung into action. Articles came out in the Washington Post. I have it right here. We don't come to the floor to play around or waste Members' time or staff time. I think it is important to talk about the fact that articles came out on the 24th. There was a review panel. We looked at the Army Times article that came out in September 2006, but when articles started rolling out on the 19th and after that on the 26th, and then on March 2nd because we were on President's break, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform subpoenaed one of the major generals who was fired, who was head of Walter Reed after Army officials refused to allow him to testify before the committee. 
   Mr. Speaker, that is what oversight is about. It was not firing a general. It is about getting down to the truth. And, of course, the administration took the position to ask him to step down. 
   March 5 of this year, this is all recent, oversight in Committee on Government Reform began holding investigation hearings into the Walter Reed scandal. 
   March 6 and 7, House Veterans' Affairs Committee holds hearings on Walter Reed scandal. 
   The same day, March 7, House Armed Services Committee holds Walter Reed scandal hearing. I was there. 
   Mr. Speaker, with all due respect to all members in the Army and those who came, and Secretary Chao and all of the folks over at the Pentagon, they did apologize. They did say they were sorry. I can give them credit for that. But I am thinking about the men and women, as we continue to peel back what has been happening at Walter Reed, and as we continue to learn about other DOD medical facilities and  the service that they are not providing, as we learn these things, we have to go about correcting them. 
   I would much rather appropriate dollars to make sure that someone's uncle, someone's mother, someone's daughter, someone's nephew who laid it down on behalf of this country gets what we said we would give them. That is quality health care, accountability and oversight. 
   If any Member has a problem with that, they need to evaluate themselves or their purpose here in Congress. I am glad to hear many Members saying to the Army: Tell us what you need. Now there will be strings attached, and there will be language to bring about oversight. And there will be individuals who will be paying attention to what you are doing. The old days of giving you the money and you just doing what you want to do are over. Accountability measures will be in place. 
   As we start to look at next week and as we start to move into next week, I think it is important that folks understand that this is going to be an open House, and we are going to promote government and crack down on waste. That is what next week is going to be all about. Next week is going to be about trying to crack down on waste and for us to start turning this around and balancing the budget. And of course, only Democrats can say we have actually balanced the budget because we have. Republicans had 12 years of control and did not balance the budget. They talked about it but did not do it. We did it. 
   To be able to say that, again, we need to crack down and highlight and investigate waste. We are here representing the American people. We are not just here representing ourselves. No, I am not here to represent Kendrick Meek. I am here to represent those who have sent me here and those that are counting on us to do the things that we have to do. 
   The Democrats have pledged to end the culture of corruption in Washington, making the Congress accountable to the people by sheer good government. What is wrong with that? 
   Next week the House will consider measures to ensure that the Federal Government is open and accountable to the American people. The legislation that is going to be brought up next week is going to be the whistleblower reforms, strengthening protections for Federal whistleblowers to prevent abuse, a lack of accountability. We want to empower those who want to step forward and say, there is corruption and waste over there. We want to insulate those individuals. They are our heroes and the heroes within the Federal Government and contracting world pointing out waste. 
   When we have countries like OPEC and China owning so much of the American pie, in the billions, that is a national security issue. So we need to treat these individuals accordingly. 
   Also next week, Presidential record disclosure, which nullifies the 2001 Presidential executive order and restores public access to Presidential records. That is important. Of course, there will be language as relates to super national security issues. They won't be able to touch those. 
   Presidential library donations, require the disclosure of donors to Presidential libraries. We have a lot of that going on. Additional material will be shared next week as it relates to the bills that will be coming to the floor, but I think it is important that we 
   have the kind of flow to the House floor that we need to have to be able to prepare ourselves to govern for the rest of the 110th Congress. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, as we continue in the 30-Something Working Group to look at issues that we travel the country to hear Americans and those that have come to Washington, D.C., looking for accountability; as we carry their prayer and their hope, and again I am not talking about proud Democrats, I am talking about all Americans, it is our obligation and responsibility to make sure that they get the best representation possible. And it should not be in the back halls of Congress, a deep secret in the corner or some sort of special meeting in the corner over here. It should be under the lights of this Chamber and to make sure that every Member understands. 
   One of the other principles of the 30-Something Working Group, on this side of the aisle and the Democratic Caucus, we want to make sure that every Member knows exactly what he or she is doing and has the information that they need, so they know what is coming up, they know what we have done, they know the responsibility that we have to carry out as Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, not as Democrats or Republicans, but as Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, because we don't want the American people to be cheated in anyway by saying, you know, when I voted on that, I didn't quite know what was going on. I'm sorry I voted against that, veteran. 
   If you voted against the continuing resolution, then you voted against $3.6 billion on behalf of veterans' health care. 
   Now for you to be a Member of Congress and not to know that, something is wrong, because that is the number one group that is counting on you to do the right thing on their behalf. They have families, too. 
   They are elderly, too. They allow us to be able to salute one flag. I say that time and time again. I get chills, bumps every time I say it, because it is important. 
   My children have a better value for the service that our men and women carry out because they hear me talk about it constantly. We travel and we talk and read about foreign countries and what is happening there. America is the best and the most free country on the face of the earth, and we want to keep it that way. Whatever we have to do to keep it that way, we are willing to do it. But we are going to do it in a coordinated fashion. We are not just going to do it entrusting others somewhere in some building in Virginia, Maryland, or Washington, D.C., that are not empowered and validated by the people of the United States of America and sent here to watch out for their best interest. 
   There are parents right now, when I go grocery shopping in my district, Mr. Speaker, I have parents walk up to me and say, Congressman, my son is 16, how long is this Iraq thing going to be going on? 
   I have to be brutally honest with them. I say, listen, as we talk about redeployment of troops, we have to understand, we are still in Korea and we are still in Germany. But the real issue is, we have to bring about the kind of coordination that is needed on the accountability end. We don't want to be putting brigades and platoons and saying, you run over here. That is the generals' job. That is not what we are doing. 
   We are making sure that the troops have what they need so when a general says, go over here or send three brigades over there, they have all of the equipment and logistical support that they need, and they have their mission and they have the things that they need to carry out that mission. That is what we are calling for. 
   We are also calling for the Iraqi government to stop playing with the United States Government. It will not be allowed. So give us more time, give us another chance, don't worry about it, as long as the U.S. troops are there, and other countries have already announced redeployment of their troops. We are sending more troops. You heard the number, and I will close with this, a number that I shared with you at the beginning, March 8, 10 a.m., 3,178 troops gone. 
   The next day, the next day, 10 a.m., March 9, 3,186 troops gone. That is the next day. 
   So this is beyond serious. These are families. And there are individuals that are counting on us to lead, and as long as you have a Democratic majority in this House, they will get that leadership because the will and the desire is there. The political courage is there to do it, and the American people are 110 percent behind accountability, fiscal responsibility, moving in a new direction. They are in that circle with the leadership of this House right now. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the Speaker and the Democratic leadership for allowing the 30-Something Working Group to have an hour two nights ago and tonight to share the message with the Members of the House. It was an honor addressing the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (MOTION TO ADJOURN -- (House of Representatives - January 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is very important that we listen to the debate that is taking place here on this floor. Some of it is true; some of it is fiction. I think it is very important to understand that $14 billion is going to go into a place that is going to help us to be able to have the kind of energy we need in the future, to be able to invest in the Midwest versus the Middle East. 
   But I was just on the floor last night talking about something that the American people want even more than what we are doing here in this debate here on the floor, because a lot things are being said here, but they want bipartisanship, and they have had it over the last 2 weeks. And I think the Republican leadership is a little afraid of the fact that their Members are voting on behalf of the American people. So they want to stand in front of the door of the House and say how bad it is. 
   But when the board lights up here, Members have a choice: do they want to vote on behalf of their constituents and making sure that we have the kind of future here in the United States, or do they want to vote on behalf of the special interests and the status quo for breaks to big oil companies that they didn't even ask for. 
   I think we are moving in the right direction with this legislation. This is just the beginning of us working together in a bipartisan way, and I look forward to moving in that spirit, Mr. Speaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to address the House once again. I am glad to see you there in the Chair. Also, I am glad to be joined by Mr. Murphy and also Mr. Ryan. We are pleased Mr. Ryan can be here at the top of the 30-Something Working Group hour. 
   We come to the floor every week, sometimes two or three times a week, to talk about the great things that are happening here in the House, talk about how we are getting better not only as to oversight but appropriations, and also budgeting, making sure that we budget so we no longer have to borrow money from foreign nations. 
   The discussion here tonight is important because we have the emergency war supplemental that is coming to the floor on Thursday. The Appropriations Committee dealt with that today. To have such an important Member like Mr. Ryan who is a member of the Appropriations Committee, they have been doing quite a bit of work. I know he has a lot to share with us making sure that we sling-shot the troops in for a win, and also the folks who have served our country, the men and women who have served our country in the past. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it is important to note there is $1.7 billion in this bill for health care; it is $1.7 billion more than the President has asked for. Also as relates to veterans health care, there is $1.7 billion more than what the President requested. 
   We had a chart on the floor last week that talked about Democrats when we were in the minority putting forth proposals to make sure that our veterans had what they needed once they left Afghanistan and Iraq, and even for those still in the service. 
   We have also put additional dollars in as relates to readiness, and we will talk about that because we have some definitions we want to share with Members. 
   But since Mr. Ryan has been spending a lot of time in the Appropriations Committee working on these very issues, I thought I would yield to my good friend and allow him to elaborate on the very work they have been doing over the last couple of weeks. I said before you came in, Mr. Ryan, that we are so happy you are here at the top of the 30-Something Working Group hour because you are an appropriator and that is an important position.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. We are within our fifth year now, our fifth year, and Mr. Speaker, I always say there is nothing like the Congressional Record. That is the reason why the 30-something Working Group, we like third-party validators, and we love the Congressional Record because that is the reason why we meet. That is the reason why we make sure we have what we need to have to give good, accurate information to the Members. 
   But we have a very important Member that is on the floor that is a member of not only the Financial Services Committee, but also Government Oversight, that has their work cut out as it relates to making sure that this government is efficient, and that is Mr. Murphy. I think that it is very important that we hear from him and some of the information that he has to share, because a lot of the information we have now is from Mr. Murphy's committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Another thing that is so very, very important, is his name David Broder, the conservative writer? I was home reading a hometown paper. Some folks in this town admit that they do not read the paper, but I do, and he wrote an article saying no blank checks out of this Congress, and it talked about oversight hearings and talked about what is happening in Justice, Mr. Speaker, and it talked about what is happening in some of the other Federal agencies. But he ended the article by saying it really does not change government. It does. This is where he is wrong. It does. 
   Half of the things that we know now about Walter Reed, most of the things that we know now about the Iraq war is that the Congress is now carrying out its constitutional responsibility, and that is to have oversight. So I just wanted to, just if we continue like Mr. Ryan was saying, listening to these voices of the past, saying let us stay in the same direction, oh, do not worry about having oversight hearings, where were these voices when folks were giving away millions of dollars in special interest tax cuts to the superwealthy and to the superconnected? So I think it is important we are on the right track. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I think it is important, as we start to look at this, I cannot help but reflect on the fact that as of 10 a.m. today, and that is today, that we have lost 3,222 men and women in Iraq. I mean, that is not a small number when we look at the sacrifices that have been made. Also, we are looking at another 13,415 wounded that have returned to duty, and 10,722 wounded that cannot return to duty. Then we have folks that are whining about having some accountability in what we now call 5 years later emergency supplemental funding. 
   I think it is important, Mr. Speaker, for the Members to understand because we want to come to the floor, we do not want a Member going back to their district saying they did not understand what was in the bill because we know it is on the other side of the aisle. 
   Mr. Ryan pointed that out we have some folks that are just going to vote on principle; I am going to vote against this because it was not my idea. I am going to vote against it because I am a Republican. Well, guess what? The American people voted last November for leadership, not saying that I am going to send a Democrat or Republican. We had Republicans that were tenured in this House, served 10-, 15-year terms unelected because they were following partisan politics. It is very, very important that we look at the bipartisanship in this. 
   I will yield because I was about to make a point on the readiness issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, I think it is important for us to look at the following line. This bill puts also enforcement behind what is already out there. There is no policy risk here in this bill. We know that the Iraq Study Group says that we should have timelines. That is in this bill. 
   We know that the military, as it relates to readiness, and we know that there are four basic components to readiness, you have, for instance, we have 100 Striker brigades that are in our military right now. We know in every Striker vehicle you have to have a commander, a gunner and a driver. We need to make sure that we have all three of those components before we send a Striker force into Iraq or Afghanistan. That is in this bill, and that is what the military calls for. 
   I think it is important to also outline that there is not a National Guard unit that is right now in our National Guard force that is combat ready. Right now, I say that with great confidence. We don't have that right now. I am on the Armed Services Committee because I know this stuff. I mean, I know this stuff because we talk about it. 
   We talk about the fact that we are not ready to do the things that we need  to do as it relates to equipment maintenance. In many parts of the theater we don't have what we need to keep heavy vehicles moving. We look at the reason why we don't have up-armored vehicles, in some instance, going out on patrol. If you ask some here in Washington DC, that is every time, but not all the time. 
   In Baghdad, this is very, very important, the training and making sure that everyone is trained and have what they need to have to carry out the task within a brigade is very, very important. 
   In this supplemental we are meeting the needs of the Army as it relates to what they need. I think it's 36,000 troops, additional troops. They need an Army, and we are also increasing the Marines by three brigades, if Members want to vote against this piece of legislation. 
   I think it's also good to outline in 2001, we were at 80 percent of readiness. When we say ``readiness,'' everyone was trained and equipment was in place to be able to deal with it. We haven't been down at the numbers or the level we are now as it relates to readiness or a lack thereof since the end of the Vietnam War. 
   In this day and time when we have Iran and we have Syria and we have North Korea and we have other countries of interest to the United States as it relates to a threat, now more than ever we need to make sure that we are there not only for the troops but also for the American people. 
   I think it is also important to shed light on the fact that there are several other great things that are in this bill, $2.6 billion to deal with Homeland Security issues that were not dealt with, Hurricane Katrina relief, $2.9 billion, also as it relates to urgent State children's health care and insurance needs at $750 million, urgent needs for pandemic flu preparedness at $1 billion. 
   As we start to look at and uncover in these hearings, as some talk about, that are a waste of time, we start looking at the gaps of the lack of oversight and a lack of execution on behalf of programs and initiatives that will make our troops' lives better, those that are enlisted, those that are Reservists, to be able to secure our troops that are in theater at this time, many of whom are in the areas of great danger and constant fire, and also looking at the needs of the country, of the everyday American people. 
   Now, it is interesting because the minority side, the Republicans over there, when we start looking at some of them, when we start looking at some of these votes that have taken place, many of the Members of the leadership, if not all, have voted against commonsense legislation that we passed on a bipartisan basis. 
   I mean, we had a number of Republicans voting for bills that were brought up by this Democratic Congress. You look at implementing the 9/11 Commission recommendations, we had 299 votes, Democrats voted in the affirmative, we had 299 overall votes, 86 of those individuals were Republicans. Minimum wage, to be able to raise minimum wage, 315 with 82 Republicans joining us. 
   Also, you have funding enhancement for stem cell research, 253, and a majority of Members voted for that bill. Thirty-seven Republicans joined us making prescription drugs affordable for seniors. H.R. 4, 255, it passed with 24 Republicans joining us. Cutting the student loan interest rates in half, H.R. 5, 356, with 124 Republicans joining us. 
   Again, creating long-term energy initiatives, H.R. 6 passed, 264, with 36 Republicans joining us. 
   Now, I can tell you tomorrow or Thursday, there will be a number of individuals thinking about how they are going to vote. But I can tell you this, there are several things that we can say about this emergency supplemental that is really, really good for the country, and there are also eight or nine points that I can point out that are leadership calls. You have to be a leader to take a position on anything, and I think we have some Members on the minority side that don't want to take a position. 
   Let me go back to David Broder's article that he wrote, and the Members can get it at miamiherald.com; it was March 18. It should still be on, you can get it for free on the World Wide Web: ``Congress won't sign any more blank checks,'' but it goes on down to paragraph 6 and talks about the fact that for 6 years the Bush administration and the aids that they are talking about earlier in the bill would have free rein on carrying out whatever political policy or assignment they wished, and also the President. Let's just say hypothetically, that the President wanted this done. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Guess what, the American people have said, I don't like that. I don't want to do that any more. 
   So now we have the opportunity to put the language in the bill that would hopefully get us to the point where the Iraqi Government will say, wow, the U.S. Government is no longer playing around with us. The American people are no longer playing around with us.  We will actually have to perform. We will actually have to turn out the troops and keep the retention as it relates to our security forces and to secure our own country. We are not going to be there forever. We are going to make sure of that. 
   For those that are saying we have to be there as long as we have to be there, I am saying that there has to be benchmarks. I am saying $500 billion has been spent in this war thus far and will continue to be spent unless someone stands up and takes the responsibility on. 
   I commend the Speaker, commend the leadership, commend every Member that has put their shoulder to the wheel and said this must be done now, not next year, not 3 years from now, not maybe we will think about it one day. The bottom line is there are folks here saying we don't want to let down Iraqi people but, guess what, I don't want to let down a U.S. taxpayer. 
   I don't want to let down that individual that is sitting in a veterans hospital now hoping and wishing they could get the kind of good care if the Congress was to stand behind them. It's not a gift issue as it relates to the majority here in this House. It is when we vote on this bill Thursday the they will be able to see the accountability they deserve. We have a process, get it through to the President. 
   This President can go on and on about how he will veto it, but I remember all of the tough talk. I have gone to the White House; I have spoken to the President. I don't have to talk in third party. I have done that. I don't have to have someone tell me what the President said.     
   The President said, even in his speech as it relates to the escalation of troops, well, we know that the people know that, yes, they are passing a nonbinding resolution now. It is nonbinding, but there will be a binding resolution as it relates to the emergency supplemental. And I agree with the President; yes, it was nonbinding, and, yes, we had a vote. And I told the President that bill will pass overwhelmingly against your initiative and escalation of troops in Iraq. He said, yes, KENDRICK, I do know that will happen, but there will be a binding resolution. And this is the binding resolution. And if the President wants a blank check, he is just not going to get it. And he has to come through this House of Representatives, he has to go through the Senate. And it is something we have to hold this government's feet to the fire, the Iraqi Government's feet to the fire, or you might as well start going back home, Members, and sharing with your constituents, how old is your son? Oh, he's 12? Well, he is going to be going to Iraq one day, and he is going to do it because it is going to continue to go on and on and on if we keep following the Bush philosophy. 
   And there is nothing wrong with our volunteer force. We have some individuals that graduated from high school and want to go into the Army. I am all for that. I help recruit on behalf of armed services. But I think it is important that we do not give our men and women a fixed deck because we weren't man enough and woman enough and leader enough to vote on their behalf for their accountability measures so they will have what they need when they go into theater. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Mr. Murphy, it is so refreshing to hear you speak about this legislation, especially being fresh off the campaign trail, especially being a new Member of Congress. And I can tell you that as long as you continue to keep that spirit, and Members of this House and the majority continue to keep the spirit of wanting to do everything that you said you would do on the night that you were elected. 
   You know, many of us gave these great speeches, Mr. Speaker, talking about when we get to Washington, this is what we will do, and that I am going to be there for you, and that I am going to make sure that you get the kind of accountability that you deserve. I am going to make sure that your tax dollars are being spent in an appropriate way. I am going to make sure that we take care of the troops. I am going to make sure that we hold this administration accountable. And then many times in the past, not this time fortunately, but many times in the past, a Member gets here to Washington, DC, starts walking around the Halls of Congress; a couple of folks call you Congressman or Congresswoman, you have a parking space downstairs. You know, folks, military folks, salute you when you get off a plane. You travel over into a foreign land, and in a motorcade going down the street, and then you forget about all those things. And I am so glad, Mr. Murphy, that you have that spirit still in your heart. And there are a number of Members of Congress who still have that spirit. 
   And, Mr. Speaker, the reason why sometimes I get a little animated and a little excited about the fact that we have some Members here in the House who are willing to be followers when it is time for them to be leaders, and to take a position on anything, it doesn't matter what it may be; if it is changing, you know, the color of the paint in your office, it takes leadership to be able to do that because you have to stand behind that decision. 
   The decision saying that we want to make sure that the readiness level of our troops before they are put into harm's way is an important decision to be made and a decision that has been endorsed by the Defense Department. This is not new language, this is not a new idea, this is something that has to be placed into this supplemental to make sure the Defense Department does exactly what they said they would do in their own policy. We are not putting forth any new benchmarks for the Iraqi Government; this is what the President said. This is what he said, this is what came out of his mouth, that they have to meet these benchmarks, or we will no longer continue to do the things we have been doing. So that is the reason why it is in writing. 
   It is almost like when you talk to someone on the phone, and you have a health care crisis, and you call down to the hospital and you say, listen, I have a problem, I need you to help me out. You are talking to a person on the phone. First of all, you may say, can I have your name, please; who am I speaking with? Or another example: If I'm looking for financing for my house, and I am talking to someone on the phone, and they say, yes, sure, we can give you a very low interest rate, a 3.2 percent interest rate. Hey, can you give me that in writing? 
   What we are doing here in this emergency supplemental is we are giving the American people and our men and women in harm's way a supplemental in writing. It is not a speech. We are not talking to the Kiwanis Club, even though we have great Kiwanis Clubs out there, don't get me wrong. We are not at a Rotary luncheon giving those speeches back home saying, ``I love the troops, I love the troops.'' We are putting it in writing. We are not saying we love the veterans, when the veterans come up here to look at this great Capitol and see the flags flying over the House Chamber and over the Senate and over the dome of the Capitol and over the office buildings and all, proud to be an American, proud that they had something to do with allowing us to salute one flag. It is not about a little speech I give out on the sidewalk thanking them for help. They want to see it in writing. They want to make sure we have their back. 
   This is a leadership call, you have to make a decision. And the bottom line is we have been elected and federalized by our constituents to make decisions. And I can guarantee you, Mr. Murphy, there is not a Republican voter or a Democratic voter or any Independent voter who has a problem with accountability, and that is what this bill does. 
   Now, someone may have a problem with the fact that they didn't do what they needed to do when they were in the majority to do it. And now we have provided an opportunity, and I have pointed out all of the votes here earlier, and then some, of the opportunities that we have allowed Republicans to have a bill that they wanted to vote for all along to the floor, and they voted in the affirmative, even though their leadership voted the other way. Now, that is for their leadership to say that they are accountable to their constituents because they decided to vote against something good. 
   But when you look at this emergency supplemental, this emergency supplemental is the first time since this war has started, Mr. Murphy, Members, Mr. Speaker, the first time that the President actually would have a document in writing that passed in the affirmative on this floor to say that the Iraqi Government will meet these benchmarks, or redeployment will stop; to say we will make sure that we invest in veterans health care and giving Homeland Security what they need to be able to carry out the duty and protection of the homeland. 
   It also says, Department of Defense, pulling a page out of your own regulations, and we are going to put it in the bill to make sure that you actually do it, not just some bureaucrat sitting over there at the Pentagon saying we have to find three more brigades from somewhere, if they are ready or not, we have to make sure that we have the numbers in Iraq. If that soldier has only been home for 120 days, and we call for 200-plus days of downtime with their families to be able to regroup from being in a battle zone, those are rights that our men and women have. So we are no longer leaving that decision up to some bureaucrat in the Pentagon to make on behalf of an American who goes off to fight on our behalf. 
   Now, is there language in there in case of emergencies; you know, if the  President, within the national interest that we have to redeploy, we have to send these troops back into the theater? Of course there is.     
   Are we hindering the President from him being Commander in Chief? No, we are not. But what we are saying is that there are rules, and you have to live by those rules. And it is going to be a majority vote here in this House, and the question, Mr. Speaker, how many Members are going to be with us when we make that majority vote here in the House to set forth the parameters of success on behalf of not only the men and women in uniform, but those that have worn the uniform and those that have been injured and cannot return back to battle, and even for those that are going to battle, that they have exactly what they need. 
   We know that we have the number one best military, most able military on the face of the Earth. But at the same time, we have to have respect for that military and making sure that the men and women have what they need and their families. 
   Mr. Murphy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, I can tell you, Mr. Murphy, it has definitely been a pleasure and a joy to be here on the floor with you tonight. And I know that I have some information that you want to share with the Members that may want to get in contact with us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. It was a good quality 20 minutes, I must add. And, Mr. Speaker, it is always an honor and a pleasure to address the House, and I mean the full House. I think it is important that we continue this discussion. As you know, we are going to be dealing with the emergency supplemental on Thursday, and next week we are going to get into the budget. These are real issues. 
   Timelines will be met. All the appropriations bills are moving through the process. They will be passed on time. We will no longer be in the business of continuing resolutions. 
   This is so, Mr. Speaker, I am proud to say, I used to say in the 109th Congress, I mean, it is kind of rough when you go in front of your hometown and you say, well, I am a Member of the 109th Congress. It is almost like kind of saying like you are a bad guy. But in the 110th Congress, I must say, and every Member of Congress, I am not talking about just some Members, I am talking about every Member because there were so many issues that were going on here in Washington, D.C. 
   But now we have the opportunity to work on behalf of the American people. We have the opportunity to do good things for veterans. We have the opportunity to do great things for children that are on military bases. We have an opportunity to make sure that our troops have what they need when they go into harm's way. And that is something we should all feel good about, on both sides of the aisle. 
   And I think that, come Thursday, Members will have a work product that they will be able to vote for and not think about. I mean, I feel sorry for the Members who have to walk around and say, goodness, I have to vote not to fund operations of troops that are in harm's way. They shouldn't walk around with that burden. They should be able to say that we cannot, I voted for the supplemental. I voted for it twice. They didn't have the parameters and the benchmarks that I wanted in it. But for the greater good, to make sure that our men and women have what they need, Mr. Murphy, if they are in there doing what they were told to do, that they must have what they need. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, with that we will continue this debate, and we will also continue to do the good work up here in Washington, D.C. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to be here before the House once again. And a lot has been done and I'm so glad that we're here and 30-something, once again, may be our last opportunity in this year of 2007. We appreciate the courage and the commitment by those of us that are in the majority. And we talked about a number of things that we would do and that has actually happened, Mr. Speaker. And a lot has happened this year, and, Mr. Speaker, I know that your constituents and others as it relates to Minnesota and what has taken place there and the tragedies that y'all have dealt with and how this Congress has responded to that tragedy of the bridge falling, and so many of your constituents are in recovery as we speak, and being from south Florida, hurricane ravaged area, we know what recovery means. And it's important for us to respond in a bipartisan way. 
   But I can tell you, some of my colleagues that were on the floor just prior to me hitting the floor talking about earmarks, it's very interesting. I am, you know, it's one of those days, and I'm glad that I was able to make it to the floor and that we were able to take this hour, and we want to thank the majority leader and also the Speaker and the majority whip and our leadership as it relates to the Democratic Caucus and our vice Chair for getting here, because to talk about earmarks, it's very interesting because we've reduced earmarks by 40 percent. I mean, that is something that the Republicans did not do over a number of years. You wouldn't even know who put an earmark in if it wasn't for the transparency that the Democratic Congress brought to this process. 
   Now, I'm going to tell you right now, I'm very happy that I was elected to come to Congress and that I'm going to get the opportunity to go home and tell my constituents what I've done for them in Congress. That's what it's all about. Why are we here representing 600, 700,000 individuals, Americans? To not only represent them here in Congress, but to also, quote, unquote, bring home the bacon on behalf of your constituency, to make sure that they have what they need, to make sure when a county commissioner or someone that sits on a parish board has an opportunity to come to their Member of Congress and say we need something from the Federal Government, meanwhile back here in Washington, DC, we have Republicans that have voted in the last five, or four Congresses for tax breaks for billionaires. Their name's not attached to it. We come here, we bring transparency, we bring accountability. We bring accountability to this process. And then they come to the floor with the audacity to say, well, you know, oh, these earmarks. Well, you know, I don't know, but I'm pretty proud of the fact that the city of Pembroke Park is able to do something about the water treatment that they've been yearning for, struggling city. I'm very proud that the city of Miami is able to say thank you Congressman for representing us in the U.S. Congress. 
   Meanwhile, the Republicans, for years and years and years, have been able, Mr. Ryan, to give tax breaks to  the billionaires and gazillionaires. Here we are bringing government back to the people and being criticized by the other side of the aisle. So, Mr. Ryan, there's a lot that we have to talk about. This is a historic day. We passed energy independence and security act. That's a historic piece of legislation. And all our colleagues have in the minority to talk about, earmarks that have been reduced by 40 percent and have been highlighted by this Congress.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy was running for office a year and some change ago, talking about if he gets to Congress what he would do for his constituents, that he would provide the kind of representation that they deserve, turn this saga of Iraq and that other issue of Iraq back to domestic priorities, bring home the bacon on behalf of the district and his constituents. 
   I'm so glad that he's here tonight because we've been here three times. This is his first time. I'm glad that he's here because I want to know what's wrong. I mean, I just, Mr. Speaker, I personally want to know what's wrong with coming to Washington, DC, representing your constituents, and doing what you said you would do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, this is one of these moments at the end  of the session, I mean we're like days from Christmas. We're still here in Washington, D.C. We've already started Hanukkah; Kwanzaa's on its way. 
   I think it's very, very important for us to point at the fact that this Congress has worked harder than any other Congress in the history of the Republic. I mean, I'm not talking about coming in number two or coming in number three or coming in number four, but we've taken more rollcall votes in the history of the Republic. 
   I think it's also very important, and I feel goose bumps by this whole thing. I pay attention to history. I also pay very close attention to the present. We're looking at a President right now that has made more veto threats than he's made in the last 5 years or 4 years, what have you, that he's been President of the United States to this Democratic Congress. We're looking at the AMT. We're talking about individuals being able to file their taxes, and we said that we were going to pay for it. This President is saying that he doesn't want to pay for it, that he wants to borrow the money. But the bottom line is that we're going to be here to make sure that we pay for it in the long run, in the second half of this Congress. 
   We're not going to allow the President to play this Congress as a fiddle. This President is talking about, Oh, well, I want Iraq funding a part of the appropriations bill that's going to pass and all. He has the veto pen. He also has 40 Republicans here in this Chamber to make sure that we don't override him on this issue of Iraq. We voted for appropriations for Afghanistan, and we had a number of Republicans that voted against it, some 200-plus. I don't feel in any way bad about the position that we've taken. 
   I'm so glad Mr. Manatos is on our side. You know, our colleagues who came to the floor right before our hour. I sent upstairs for this chart to make sure that we enter this chart into the Record one more time. I think it's important that we look at the 42 Presidents before this President were only able to borrow $1.01 trillion. We're talking about the Great Depression. We're talking about World War I. We're talking about World War II. We're talking about Korea. We're talking about Vietnam. We're talking about Grenada; that's new. We're talking about a number of conflicts that have taken place. We're talking about economic downturns. We're talking about the S&L scandal. We're talking about a number of issues that have faced Americans over the years. 
   This President, President Bush, along with his Republican minority, thank God, but enough to be able to cause trouble over in the Senate with this 60-vote phenomena that we've learned about in this 110th Congress with Republicans saying, Well, you know, we're going to use procedural rules to be able to hold up what the Democratic Congress would like to do in this Congress. 
   This President was able to borrow $1.19 trillion. That number is higher now. This chart is not updated, but I think it's important for our Democrats, Independents, Republicans to know that we believe in fiscal responsibility here on this floor. We believe in the American way. 
   We used to talk about our children paying this bill, but now we're talking about we are paying this bill, countries like China and others. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much. 
   I think it's important, and I kind of feel like a Baptist preacher on the first Sunday. You want to be able to make your point, and you want to be able to climax, but Mr. Ryan comes in and gets in the way, but it's okay. He has a good point. He's a great American. 
   I think it's important that we look at our responsibility right now and in the present for being able to stand up for those that have elected, woke up early one Tuesday for us, voting for representation, that we give voice to their cause and their need. 
   I think it's also important, especially as it relates to the diversity of our caucus, need it be Blue Dogs, need it be moderate, need it be to the left or whatever the case may be, it represents America. 
   I think the reason why Republicans voted for Democrats last time, Independents voted for Democrats last time, Democrats voted for Democrats last time is because they're looking for change. We're here to provide that kind of change, but we start looking at obstructionists here in Congress using procedural, using the rules of the House, using the rules of the Senate. The minority is protected in this process, standing in the schoolhouse door, if I may use that, of allowing us to stop from the report that we got today, November 13, or yesterday, November 13, total deaths in Iraq, 3,888; total numbers wounded in action and returned to duty, 15,832; total numbers wounded in action and not returning to duty, 12,829.     
   We pay attention to those numbers in the 30-something group because the American people are paying attention to those numbers, and I think it's very important, Mr. Speaker, that we continue to lift this issue up. 
   So as we look at what we are facing right now, Members, there's nothing wrong with us representing our districts and being able to bring dollars back because this is something that has not happened over the years. We have been borrowing the money to be able to continue the war in Iraq. We have been borrowing the money as it relates to going after Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan. We have been doing the things we need to do. But I think it's very important, Members, that we tell our story. 
   Today a very historic piece of legislation passed this floor when we look at the Energy Independence and Security Act. And I think we should not allow this day to pass without talking about the courage of Democrats and Republicans passing this bill. 
   I yield to Mr. Altmire. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Altmire, I think you just hit a point there. 
   Mr. Ryan, the 30-something Working Group, I can say, gentlemen, that we do our homework. As we talked about our colleagues on the minority side criticizing earmarks on the majority side, Mr. Ryan, would you please share with our illustrious support staff that we have here? 
   Mr. Speaker, this is the reason why the 30-something group exists, so that we can, some may say, push back. We say tell the truth. 
   I yield to Mr. Ryan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. So I think it's important, Mr. Speaker, for us to note that that's the case. 
   And, Mr. Ryan, I am going to kick it back to you and Mr. Murphy was very kind because it was his turn, but I am going to tell you Mr. Thomas ran the Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Altmire, and meanwhile had something named after him. And for Members on the minority side to come to the floor and talk about present Members that are bringing home the resources on behalf of their constituents, I can see if one did not put in a request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Reclaiming my time, Mr. Altmire, I want to thank you first. 
   First of all, Mr. Speaker, let me just say this: let me tell you, as I was walking to the Chamber, I saw that the Speaker's vehicle was still here in the Capitol. I saw that the majority leader's vehicle was still here at the Capitol. This is now a little bit before 10 p.m. within the closing days of Congress. We have worked day in and day out. We are here away from our families, many of you away from your families, days before Christmas, to be able to work on behalf of the American people. 
   I think it's important for us to understand that we would not even be having the discussion about who got what if it wasn't for the transparency that this Democratic Congress brought to this process first. So for Republicans to come to the floor and start talking about who got what, it never would have happened, Mr. Murphy, if it wasn't for what we have done. It never would have happened if it wasn't for your class and Mr. Altmire's class coming and saying we want transparency, that we want the American people to see what we are doing, that we want to take more rollcall votes than any other Congress in the history of the United States. We want ethics; we want responsibility; we want fiscal responsibility; we want to make sure that the Veterans Affairs get more money than they have ever had in history, the veterans health care system, in the history of the Republic. 
   We want accountability as it relates to Iraq, and we want this President to know that this is not a rubber-stamp Congress. If it was not for you, Mr. Speaker, including yourself, asking for the kind of accountability the American people have been calling for, that have been yearning for, voting for and they finally got it, for the minority party to come to the floor and start criticizing things, where they make over 20-plus earmarks, to come to the floor and criticize, that's why I'm so glad, Tom and Tasha and Michael, that we are here tonight, Mr. Speaker, to make sure that we set the record straight. 
   We talked about the hypocrisy of the democracy. This is a perfect example of what happens when things go unchecked. I am so glad that we exist. I'm so glad we have air within our bodies to be able to come to the floor. 
   I yield to Mr. Altmire. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, Mr. Ryan, I want to thank you and Mr. Altmire, and also Mr. Murphy and Ms. Wasserman Schultz and others who have been very active in our 30-Something over the year. I want to thank those that are involved in preparing not only material that we meet on on a weekly basis, but also what we bring to the floor. 
   I want to thank all of the staff and those that are involved, the Speaker's office, the majority leader and the whip's office, the majority whip and the Democratic leader, and also the Vice Chair for everything you do to make our 30-Something hour possible. 
   I don't know if we'll have the opportunity to come to the floor tomorrow, which some project may be our last night on the floor, but we want to thank Mr. Michael and also Mr. Tom, Ms. Natasha and Mr. Adam and so many others that have spent time on this. 
   Mr. Speaker, there has been a lot done this Congress. We're going to be talking about it more. And like Mr. Ryan said, go onto www.speaker.gov to get information on 30-Something. 
   I want to commend those Members of the minority party that voted with the majority party to be able to make it so for many of the things that Mr. Ryan has talked about. 
   We look forward to the President's State of the Union that will be coming up in January. Many of, I'm pretty sure, his talking points will come from what has already been accomplished by this Democratic Congress or has been brought to the President by force because of the vote that we have here and the will of the American people. 
   We know that this is the holiday time of the year, and we would like to also recognize not only the contributions of our religious communities out there, but also those that work within our charities that have made it so for those to be able to not only have warm meals, but also to have gifts at this time of year. 
   Also recognizing those Members that served in the first half of this Congress that did not make it to the second half of this Congress, those Members of this House and also the Senate that have moved on to a higher place. We ask for blessings for their families, and also for their loved ones that have been left behind. We try to provide the kind of representation that they tried to put forth on the Democratic and also the Republican side of the House. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am very grateful, and all of us in the 30-Something are very grateful for coming to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, Mr. Murphy, we definitely appreciate it. And I'm going to take that part of the Congressional Record and put it in the foyer of my office here in Washington, also the large brains part, put it in the foyer. But if it wasn't for the support of our leadership allowing us to come to the floor. But also, I think, Mr. Speaker, those individuals that are in harm's way and their families, two wars going on, we appreciate their contributions. 
   We appreciate those veterans, since we're giving what we call ``shout-  outs,'' giving those veterans that allow us to salute one flag, we appreciate them, those folks that put it on the line and some that did not make it. 
   But we look forward to coming back in the second half of this Congress and finish the unfinished business. We want the American people to have faith in this House, have faith in this Senate, and also a level of respect for the Commander in Chief, that we're going to work this thing out here in Washington, D.C., on behalf of those that have sent us up here to represent them. 
   I look forward to the second half of the Congress. I want to thank the staff, thank the folks in the Clerk's office for doing all that they've done, even the staff over in the minority office for sticking in there over many hours in this first half, because we have not only made history, but we have also put in more hours than any other Congress in the history of the Republic. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, we encourage people to go to www.speaker.gov, and we yield back the balance of our time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, it is always an honor to come before the House and address the Members. 
   I can tell you that today, in this great country of ours, we have a lot going on. There is a lot of news on the Presidential race. There are a lot of issues that are facing our Nation with Iran testing missiles. And there are a number of issues that American families are also facing. 
   We're going to talk a little bit tonight about energy. We're going to talk about the Iraq factor. We're going to talk about the things that American families are going through right now. And I think it's very, very important because many people feel that there are issues that are not being addressed here in Washington, DC as it relates to the executive branch. And I think that it's important that we share with the Members that we have a number of issues that this Democratic-led House has put forth on behalf of the American people in a leadership role. 
   As you know, in the 30-Something Working Group, we always start our hour off--and I'm joined tonight by my very good friend, Mr. Jason Altmire, and also Mr. Ryan, Tim Ryan, on this 30-Something Working Group. And you know we come to the floor, Madam Speaker, to actually speak in what you may say the arena of fact versus fiction. We know that sometimes we get a little excited and we may not have the necessary footnotes we need to back up the information that we are providing, but tonight we did come to the floor to share with the American people fact, not fiction. 
   I think that, when we start to reflect, Madam Speaker, on a number of issues that are facing Americans, we have to look at the everlasting issue of fuel costs, for someone to fill up their car, for someone to do something that we may call very common, being able to put gas in their car to be able to take their children to school, to be able to make it to their jobs. And I think that as we look at this issue we need to know who is on the side of the American people. When I say ``we,'' I'm saying Members of Congress. 
   I'm hoping that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, my Republican colleagues who have joined us on a number of major pieces of legislation that we passed out of this Congress that has gone to the President, I want to applaud those Members for being a part of this great democracy and this great leadership that we have here in the House, to be able to bring about the paradigm shift of bipartisanship. We have not seen bipartisanship in the 109th Congress, 108th Congress. I can attest to that because I was here for those two Congresses. The 110th Congress has brought about bipartisanship on major pieces of legislation that I will talk about a little further later on, but I just want to mention a few things. 
   Madam Speaker, I always start off by giving what is going on in Iraq. The $8.5 billion war that's taking place right now in Iraq, some over $230-something million a day war. And I had the opportunity, Madam Speaker--and I don't want to digress--to speak to some first responders from New Jersey. They are from New Jersey, and Representative Rush Holt asked me to speak to his first responders. As you know, Madam Speaker, I was, once upon a time, a first responder as a Florida Highway Patrol trooper. And we talked about funding, and they were talking about the grants. And there was a grant here for, you know, $50 million or a grant there for equipment for fire fighters and State troopers and sheriffs, $70 million. 
   But when I started talking to them about the $230 plus million a day that's being spent in Iraq, you should have seen their eyes opening wide. We all believe in making sure that we give our men and women what they need in Iraq; and we do that, this Congress has done it. But I think that when you start looking at the policy, when you start looking at how this administration has not put the Iraqi Government's feet to the fire to let them know that we have homefront security and hometown security needs to be addressed, they will never see the kinds of dollars that we're spending there. 
   I also want to share the numbers with you. The total deaths in Iraq is 4,117 as of July 9; total number of wounded and returned to duty is 16,866; and the total number of wounded not returning to duty is 13,483. I think we have to look at that in perspective. 
   I want to yield to my good friend, Mr. Altmire, at this time as we talk a little bit about a number of issues that  are facing the American people. Like I said, we're going to talk about fuel, we're going to talk about dining room table issues. So we're going to bounce around a little bit tonight, Madam Speaker and Members. And hopefully we will be able to share with the Members exactly what they need to know versus what some on the other side may not want to hear, because we're going to need this bipartisanship to push it through, to send the President a message that the American people have to be heard. 
   With that, I yield to my friend, Mr. Altmire. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much. 
   Florida is front and center in the solution on the Republican side of the whole oil crisis issue. And we started talking about deficit spending. We started talking about what is happening to the American family, and I think that it's very important. 
   I heard you, Mr. Ryan and Mr. Altmire, say something earlier about the folks in Iraq taking the responsibility. They are now calling for a timeline. It's interesting that the administration is not calling for a timeline. 
   And I think it's important, Madam Speaker, when we look at $8.5 billion a month, that's not anything to look away from. That's a lot of money. And I can tell you that there's a number of folks that would like to see that kind of money invested here in the United States. 
   Let me just mention one thing. The Speaker a few days ago wrote a letter to the President. Two months ago she asked for oil to be taken out of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve that we have here. This letter is, I believe, on speaker.gov, which is on Speaker  Nancy Pelosi's Web site. It asks the President to dip into the oil reserves, that we have over 90 days of reserve that's in these oil reserves. 
   This has been done before. This is not what you may call a new idea. This is not a radical idea. It's been done by not only the first President Bush, his father, but also by President Clinton and by this President during Katrina. 
   I just want to take a couple of excerpts from this letter. It says: ``Two months ago, after initially opposing our proposal to suspend the government's purchase of high-priced oil from the Strategic Oil Reserve, you signed the bipartisan legislation into law.'' 
   A couple of paragraphs down, it talks about the fact that oil was $30 per barrel when his administration took office and now has hit $150 per barrel. And I think it's important for us to look at the $1.47 average when he came into office and the $4.11 per gallon. 
   In 1990, 1991 Desert Shield, Desert Storm, when George H. W. Bush the first drew down from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve on January 17, 1991, it actually bought oil prices down per barrel $8. In 2000, in the face of high energy prices, the oil prices, President Clinton signed an executive order authorizing a withdrawal of 30 million barrels that were released from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve that actually brought the price per barrel down from $30.94 to $20.38, which is a 37 percent decrease. And this is backed up by the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming of April 24, 2008. 
   Then we look at Hurricane Katrina. President Bush has done this before. Hurricane Katrina in 2005, because the Gulf States were hit, the administration offered 30 million gallons from the Strategic Oil Reserve that actually brought down the price per barrel by $5. 
   Why do I mention what has happened in the past, which should happen here in the present? The real issue is it's 97 percent full at this particular time, well beyond the International Energy Program as it relates to the 90-day reserve stock that should be there. When the President makes a decision, in 13 days, you will see oil prices go down. Why is this important, Madam Speaker and Members? This is very important because the American people are having to make a choice. If they're going to drive to work or they're going to drive their children to school, especially in rural America and even in urban America, they are having to make those decisions.     
   There were families that had to make the decision if they were going to see their family members or go to the family reunion this last July 4th, which is one of the most celebrated holidays in our country, which is our independence. They could not make that decision to drive because of the price of oil. We have companies that are laying off workers as we stand here today because of the issue of oil per barrel. 
   I talked to Chairman Oberstar. We took the opportunity to do it. Mr. Ryan and I were in a meeting today. Chairman Oberstar stated the following, the chairman of the Transportation Committee: A $10 drop in the price per barrel of oil will result in a savings of $420 million per year to Northwest Airlines. It also would mean a savings of $840 million for United Airlines. It would also mean a savings of $900 million per year for American Airlines. 
   What does that mean? That means that the American people will not be nickel-and-dimed as we are now as they travel throughout this country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, sir. I think it's important as we look at this, Madam Speaker, and we say small businesses are the backbone of our economy. I mean, we are just hearing about the big players here; the airlines, those that are publicly trade. What about the small business of 25 to 100 people? Do you think they are laying off people? They are laying off people because they can't afford it. 
   I am not a Member of Congress with a conspiracy theory, but I can't help but pay attention to this board here. So many Americans appreciate the fact when Saddam Hussein's statue was taken down and we are going to liberate the Iraqi people and all, but there are some other people who had some other interests and some other things in mind. A few companies are making record profit, just breaking records as it relates to profits. 
   Meanwhile, back at the ranch or back at the dining room table, folks are having to park their vehicles because they can no longer afford to be able to pay for the necessity of being able to use their own vehicle. I mean the cost of living in the United States has gone up in some households some $200 to $300. 
   What we do here, Mr. Murphy, we are here to represent the American people. So we have to make sure that we do exactly just that. 
   Here's another chart. I had some of my friends come to the floor on the other side of the aisle saying, You know what we need to do? Great idea. Let's drill more. Let's make sure that we have more opportunities for oil companies to find the kind of energy that we need. That is that old school kind of Beta thinking, VHS thinking. Just the other day I was with my wife, looking around. We had to find something to turn it to DVD or whatever the case may be. 
   If you want to think in the old sense of things, you can. But here are the facts. Acres leased, and this is in the millions, 9.5 million acres that have been leased. When you look at the acres that are producing, 23.7. So what we have here is a full plate that the oil industry has to look for oil or whatever the case may be. They are not even taking advantage of the leases that have already been given. But, better yet, they want more. 
   Now, what the Speaker is talking about and the Democrats are talking about, let's go in, let's bring this price down. Let's let the oil cartels know that we mean business. And we also responded as it relates to legislation looking at alternative fuel. 
   The last point that I want to make and then I'm going to turn it over to my good friend here. Let's talk about what is happening out there. 
   If you're lucky enough to have a 2008 Pontiac Grand Prix, the cost to fill that up is $62.73. That is every time it ends up on E. The annual cost is $2,927. If you're lucky enough to have a Honda Accord, the cost to fill that up is $58.26. Annual cost, $2,565. Not even talking about what you have to do as relates to preventive maintenance. 
   If you have an opportunity to have a 2008--all these numbers I am talking about here, like I said, Madam Speaker, we don't talk fiction, we don't embellish numbers, we don't leave any like gray area out there for folks to say, Well, maybe he might have meant that, or maybe the 30-Something, maybe they were making another point. We want to make sure that you're able to go on fueleconomy.gov and you can get these numbers that I am stating right here on the floor right now, right here. 
   If you're lucky enough to have a 2008 Chevy Impala, $62.73; $2,798. Chevy Suburban. Many small businesses use these vehicles. A 2008, $124, and $4,391 to fill it up per year. We are not even talking about preventive maintenance. 
   Ford Escape, $60.88; $2,927. You also have your Ford Escape Hybrid, which is $55.35; $2,096 that is being spent, plus you get your $3,000 tax credit when you get this hybrid. 
   Let's just talk about what is happening in rural America, in many places in rural America, and small businesses. Ford F-10 pickup truck, $113.83. That is to fill it up; $4,391. It goes on and on with this Web site. This is based on the national average, which is $4.10. 
   This is what is happening right now. They don't want to hear what the Republican side is talking about, Madam Speaker, as it relates to if we were to give more leases and we were to start drilling off the coast of Florida that we have never considered--well, we never really considered before. We wanted to do it, but we couldn't do it. But now folks are in a crisis now. Here's our solution. 
   Well, that is not a good solution because you have all of these leases that are out there. It's almost like the oil companies, back in 2001 when they had this great meeting in Dick Cheney's office and started talking about how we are going to deal with energy policy, came up with this situation. 
   We have seen oil and the price of gas go from $1-something to now $4.10. It seems to work. The Bush administration is there. I think it's kind of like the last call for you know what to say that, Hey, let's get these leases while we can because we have Democrats here in the Congress that is talking about alternative fuel, that is talking about bringing the gas prices down now, not later, and have a real strategy as it relates to dealing with these oil cartels with penalties and allowing our regulation agencies here to regulate these folks from price gouging the American people. 
   Who's standing in the middle of the door? When they say stand in the schoolhouse door, who's standing there? The administration is standing there, saying that it's not just and it's not fair. 
   I have got a problem with that. I don't think my constituents sent me here to Congress to sit idly by and watch this happen. I am so glad, my colleagues here, that we have acted on this. I am not so happy that the President has not acted on it. I am not so happy that there's not outrage as it relates to his inaction for not dealing with these issues. 
   So Members can come to the floor and start talking about fiction and carrying on and embellishing. I'm not saying that. I am just saying some folks can come and start painting big pictures with broad brush or whatever the case may be. But I think it's important that we bring these issues to the forefront. 
   I don't have a problem with the oil companies that are on this chart here. I am not upset with them. They are just taking advantage of the situation that they have. Use it or lose it. They are taking advantage of it. We are going to ride this thing as long as we can ride it. I tell you, the American people have a say, and come this November, there's going to be a different day. 
   Last point. I am just going to make a last point and have a seat. I am going to let my colleagues share a little bit with us. 
   I remember in the day when Mr. Ryan and I, some two Congresses ago, used to say, If we have the opportunity to lead, that we will lead in a way that the American people would like for us to lead, not as Democrats would like for us to lead, not as independents, or not as Republicans, but as the American people would like for us to lead; how future generations would like for us to lead as relates to dealing with global warming, as it relates to investing in the Midwest versus the Middle East so that we can create green jobs. To put the American people to work, not other folks to work. And we have responded to that call. 
   In politics, you don't see that. You don't see people. The Speaker said what we are going to do. We are doing it. The President is not doing it. The Vice President is not doing it. I can tell you right now, we need this paradigm shift to happen now. 
   We said that there will be Members of this House that will be watching us here on this floor at home, not because they are retired, not because they thought someone else needed a chance to lead, but because the American people no longer tolerate it. That actually happened. 
   So I think come this November, the American people are going to rise up and they are going to say, Listen, I did not send you to Washington, D.C. to represent the special interests and to represent big oil to make record profits. I sent to you Washington, D.C. to make life better for me and my children.  
   So I want to thank my colleagues here for allowing me to make that point. I know that we have some other things to share as relates to this subject, so I will yield to my good friend from Connecticut. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Mr. Ryan, the real issue here is executive power, okay? We live in this democracy, but we have executive power as it relates to being able to deal with these issues. And I am so glad you are reading off the list of not only the Congressional Record, but congressional action on doing what we said we would do. 
   We had a plan, Six in 06. We have done all of that. We talked about the issue that is facing America, the American people, as it relates to energy costs. When I read off those airline issues, I am not talking about profits for those airlines. I am talking about the fact when you go to book a flight now, to even check a bag, you have to not only spend the money that you spent on booking the flight, but then now you have to pay sometimes $15, $30, $100 per bag. The next thing you know, they are going to have a little card swipe on the restroom in the bathroom. I am not trying to sensationalize anything. That is just where we are now. A little bag of peanuts you used to get on the plane, folks are saying that is now $5.50. You want something to drink? 
   So when you look at these issues, these are real issues. It is something, Madam Speaker, we have to deal with. It is not only dealing with the American families, but it is also dealing with American business, the backbone, small business, the backbone of our economy. When we start dealing with our economy, we have to really look at these issues for what they are worth. I am hoping we can get more of our colleagues from the Republican side to join us. 
   Mr. Ryan, I know you have something to add to this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, as we close we are going to do this little lightning round here. We are going to yield back and move from there. So we will just kind of roll around in rotation. 
   Mr. Altmire has been standing by here very patiently. It is very interesting. I guess it is just the Pittsburgh spirit. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, I want to thank you for sharing with the Members how we can improve and how the administration can improve as it relates to policing what is going on right now. 
   We passed legislation putting teeth in the Federal Trade Commission to be able to go after these price gougers, to be able to find out where there is fat and waste. This Bush administration will not get the award for being able to stomp out waste and fat within the Federal Government. The executive branch means a lot to accountability as it relates to what we are trying to seek out here in Congress. 
   I want to thank you, Mr. Murphy, and I want to thank Mr. Altmire and Mr. Ryan for coming down here, this 30-Something Working Group hour tonight. 
   Madam Speaker, we come to the floor to not only bring about bipartisanship, but also challenge our colleagues in being a part of the solution versus standing idly by and holding on to party loyalty or whatever the case may be. Because we did not talk about the kind of changes that you can believe in or the kind of change if you give us the opportunity, or the Six in '06 plan on behalf of just Democrats, on behalf of Independents and Republicans, but on behalf of the American and those yet unborn. So we are batting pretty good as it relates to the accountability of what the people want and what is good for this country. And I can tell you, there is no greater honor, there is no greater honor than serving here in this Congress and being about the solution. 
   We can talk about solution and we can take action on solution here. But if we have an administration that is treating it as though it is the last day of school or the last days of school, and I don't necessarily have to respond; we have oil companies that have a plate of leases that are out like this high and putting pressure on the Congress and on other entities to say, hey, let's start drilling off the coast of Florida. Well, why? Well, we want to bring gas prices down. When? Oh, maybe 10 or 15 years. But we just want it. We know we have thousands and thousands upon thousands of leases that are yet undrilled upon, unresearched or what have you, but we want more. It sounds like the oil companies are saying: We want to keep this good thing going for us. 
   Well, the American people are now asking for a bailout as it relates to the price of gas at the pump. I am asking the Bush administration and some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to be just as excited about helping bail out the American people as though they were and have been excited about bailing out industry, special interests when they get into trouble. Why doesn't somebody save Ms. Johnson or Ms. Cravis, or Mr. Jackson who has an F-10 pickup truck and running a small business. Let's help them. 
   So that is what we are trying to do here and that is what we are advocating here on the floor. It is going to take more than a willing House and a willing Senate to bring about the kind of change that will affect the bottom line of the American people that are facing these prices right now. We need the administration to be able to stand up on behalf of the American people. And, guess what, we can't wait until January for that to happen. 
   So we thank you, Madam Speaker. I would like to thank the members that came down to the floor tonight of the 30-Something Working Group. It is always an honor to address the House of Representatives. 
   We yield back the balance of our time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - April 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, I want to thank you so very much. When you say ``originators,'' it makes me feel a little old. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, I'm glad to be joining my great colleague here. He had a wonderful bill on today on the floor. I'm so glad that the Members voted in a unanimous way in making sure we bring about the kind of accountability that the American people have been calling for for a very long time now. 
   I think Mr. Murphy has stepped on something, like they say in the country, of being able to bring to light, exactly what are you making? Why are you motivated to be a part of this ongoing war, this kind of the quiet storm that's going on, special interests supporting with commercials and all, the war in Iraq and Afghanistan? 
   So we do know that the war in Afghanistan is all about 9/11, but the war in Iraq, after 5 years, is about something else. 
   Former President Bill Clinton puts it this way: If a family next door had a fire, any good neighbor would allow their neighbor to come over and stay at their home and let them sleep on the couch or the extra room for a couple of weeks; and maybe that neighbor may ask, well, can I stay for 2 or 3 months? And nine times out of ten, a good neighbor would allow that person to stay 3 or 4 months. But when it's 5 years later, it's no longer about the fire. 
   I think that it's important that we look at it from that standpoint, especially as we look at some of these companies that are tenfold going along with, let's keep this war going, let's keep the American people scared about what may happen to them if we were to withdraw the majority of our troops from Iraq. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it's important, and I want to share this with the Members because there was a great debate on this floor today when we talked about this issue of gas prices. 
   Now it's very ironic that our Republican colleagues on the other side tried to do what we call here on this floor a procedural maneuver, a motion to recommit saying that what are you doing about gas prices in America. Now, this  is very interesting, and I wish I had my chart down here as it relates to profits that Big Oil has made on the Republican watch. 
   When President Bush became President, Dick Cheney had a special meeting in 2001 with oil companies, and all of a sudden, these oil companies started making these profits that were really unconscionable, unprecedented, never happened before in the history of the Republic. But then again we have Republicans on the floor saying, what is up with these oil prices? 
   Well, you know, it's very interesting. I want to point the Members, too, because it's nothing about fact versus fiction. Republican leadership wrote the Speaker a letter saying, well, what are you doing about the fuel issue and the price of gas in the United States of America? And me knowing the Speaker and all of us knowing the Speaker, that she sleeps with her fists balled up, especially fighting on behalf of the American people. 
   And I think it's very, very important, and we realize that this is very serious business, when folks have to pay $4 out of their pocket to pay for a gallon of gas, I think it's something that we should be paying close attention to. 
   The Speaker wrote the Republican leadership back in this House and said, It's interesting. We have H.R. 2264 that we put forth on the floor in asking the Department of Justice to take legal action against OPEC-controlled entities for participating in oil cartels that are driving up the price of oil. That's H.R. 2264. How about the Energy Price Gouging Act, which is H.R. 1252, legislation that will reduce the burden of rising gas prices on American families, providing immediate relief to consumers by giving the Federal Trade Commission authority to investigate and punish those that are artificially inflating fuel prices? How about H.R. 5351 with ExxonMobil ranked as the most profitable company in 2007? It's unnecessary for taxpayers to subsidize Big Oil. It goes on and on. 
   I will pull one more bill out. How about the marketing manipulation provision that was in the Energy Independence Security Act of 2007? It talks about some of the very things that I mentioned. 
   But this is not the kicker, Mr. Speaker and Members. It's interesting that the Republican leadership would write the Speaker trying to do a Potomac two-step when we're here about the business. 
   See, the reason why we're in the majority is because Republicans, Independents, Democrats, people that voted for the first time wanted to vote for change, so they voted for the Democrats to take control of this House of Representatives; Republicans who are frustrated, Republican voters who are frustrated with the fact that Republicans were saying one thing and doing another in the back halls of Congress. We have opened this process up when we took the majority here, and that's what they were looking for, and we will continue. 
   But the irony of the whole issue is that the Republicans will write a letter to the Speaker as though ``we got you on black-and-white paper,'' and she's not paying enough attention to say, Wait a minute. Let me call you out since you wanted to call me out. 
   As a matter of fact, the top of the Republican leadership here voted against the issue as it relates to OPEC price gouging, voted against the Price Gouging Act that we passed, the House bill that I called out just a few minutes ago; voted against renewable energy so that we can drive the cost down and compete with petroleum and OPEC companies and other folks that want to raise the price of gas in the United States, and voted against the Energy Security Act. 
   So I think it's very important for us to look at the hypocrisy of the democracy on the other side of the Republican aisle. Now I won't generalize all of the Republicans in this House because some of them voted with the Democrats on it because they see the light. 
   Many of their colleagues that were lockstep with the philosophy of the letter that the Republican leadership wrote to the Speaker are now watching me at home on C-SPAN because they made a career decision not to follow the will of the American people and bring about the kind of change that they woke up early one Tuesday morning looking for. This great democracy of ours calls for representation. Not representation of special interests. 
   And so I'm very pleased with my Democratic colleagues that have voted for our Democratic leadership to be in the leadership to lead us in this new direction that we share with the American people. We didn't just share it with Democrats; we shared it with Republicans, we shared it with the Independents, and we shared it with the American people. We shared it with those that are yet unborn, those that cannot vote right now to give them hope in this government that we're here fighting on behalf of them. 
   There are veterans right now that are in the sound of my voice, that can hear my voice right now, that have fought for this country and allowed us to salute one flag. And I think it's very, very important, Mr. Speaker, very, very important, Members, very, very important, those congressional staffers, that we do the things that we have to do to make this country better. 
   These kind of letters, writing back and forth for the sake that I wrote a letter, motions to recommit to say that we're going to call the Democrats out on not doing anything about gas prices; we don't have oil on our hands. They need to go down to 1600 Pennsylvania and check that out. They had the first meeting. They sat down with oil executives. They're the individuals that have the oil background. 
   And we have a better reason of why we need to change what is going on right now through using alternative fuel versus telling American people that they're addicted to oil. 
   So we've got a lot of work to do, and I'm hoping that this bipartisan vote that we took on Mr. Murphy's bill today is something that's blowing through the air ducts here in Washington, D.C. that Republicans and Democrats can vote together when it makes sense. It makes sense for us to look for alternative fuels. 
   It makes sense for us to be greener. It makes sense for us to do what we're doing here, Mr. Murphy and Mr. Speaker, of greening the Capitol. Greening the Capitol, we just started that when the Democrats took control. Mr. Murphy talked about the fact that this made sense, but it never would have seen the light of day, Mr. Speaker, if it wasn't for Democratic leadership here in this House allowing Mr. Murphy's bill to make it to the floor so Members can vote in a unanimous way. 
   Some of my friends on the other side of the aisle, Republicans, they're people, too. And it's very important that we give them the opportunity to vote on good pieces of legislation. And I think it's important that we don't allow anyone to stand in the school house door or the policy door of this Congress and not allow legislation to come to the floor. 
   Case in point, Mr. Murphy, if I may. All of the 9/11 recommendations were held back by the Republicans when they were in control. We passed them here in the House of Representatives. To be able to cut student loan interest rates in half on behalf of all of the American people; those that drive Ford, Chevy trucks that are paying somewhere in the neighborhood of $95 to fill their tank up, to those individuals that are catching the bus that have been green all their lives because they have no alternatives; those individuals that wake up early in the morning that snap, pop these sheets over here in Washington, D.C. and throughout America in these hotels that know what it means to punch in and punch out every day with a 15-minute break in the morning, if they get it, and a 30-minute lunch break, if they get it, those kind of individuals. Those kind of individuals that come home and take off steel-toed boots and sit down and try to recover from the day that they had of working a solid 8 or 12 hours. Those individuals. 
   Those are the kind of people that we talk to here in this Democratic Congress. Those are the kind of individuals that we allow Republicans to vote on good legislation like Mr. Murphy brought to the floor today because he just got here and he wants to show his constituents and the American people since they federalized him to come to this floor to represent them, that they will have the opportunity to vote for good legislation. Not only for him to go home but for him to sleep right at night. 
   So I think it's important, Mr. Speaker. I have no problem with Members  bringing amendments to the floor. I have no problems with Republicans raising the point of how we can make legislation better. But it's one thing, Mr. Speaker, and Members, when you come to the floor and you're the pot calling the kettle black, it's one thing for that to happen. 
   And one thing that I do like, Mr. Murphy, about our 30-Something Working Group is that we're in the business of fact and not fiction, that we're in the business of carrying out the will of the American people, because we stood on this floor some 4, 6 hard years saying that if you give us the opportunity to lead, this is what we will do. Democrats, Republicans, Independents, American people, and those yet unborn will appreciate our efforts.     
   So I think it is important. I'm not upset. If someone says, well, Congressman sounds kind of upset, that guy from Miami. I thought he was kind of easy going, you know, folks from Florida get all excited about things, Sunshine State and all. I'm just glad that God provided me an opportunity to stand upright to be on this floor. And folks in the 17th Congressional District in Florida on one Tuesday morning voted for me to be here to be able to state what I'm saying right now. And so this is not propaganda, it's fact. 
   I want to thank the Speaker for responding to the Republican leadership on this issue. And I want to thank those Republicans that voted on your very good piece of legislation. I'm glad, because I look forward--I actually sent something out to a couple of friends talking about this today, and I think it's important that we do that. 
   Mr. Murphy, I want to thank you for your leadership. I'm glad that we have the opportunity to do the things that we have to do. I know the American people are paying attention to what the presidential candidates are saying. I'm hoping that in the President's closing days, that he has an opportunity to sign and be a part of the good legislation that we're trying to pass here. And I want folks to stay engaged. 
   Before I close on this segment, I just want to say, because I never hit the floor unless I share with the Members what's happening in Iraq right now, that as of today, April 23, 4,046 Americans have died in Iraq; total number of wounded in action and returned to duty is 6,520; and total number of wounded in action not returning to duty is 3,309. Mr. Speaker, I think every day that should be read into the Congressional Record so that Members understand their responsibilities and what they have to do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - April 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. If I can, Mr. Murphy, I think it's important, and I'm going to have to come in for a close because I have to run, but I think that it's important, Mr. Speaker and Members, that we look at it for what it is. 
   I tell you, a friend of mine from Miami always says, ``it is what it is,'' and I always smile when my friend shares that with me. But I can tell you this, you know, here's President Bush walking with the Saudi king in April of 2005 right here, Mr. Speaker. And I want the Members to make sure that they focus in on that, the very meeting that I was talking about. The White House energy plan was submitted, and individuals had a meeting, and here it is. If you look at the future prices with respect to gasoline, they appear to be headed down. This is what Vice President Dick Cheney said on 5/20/2001. And as you look at this chart, it started getting worse for the American people, Mr. Speaker and Members, and better for the oil companies. Now, I'm not a Member of Congress with a conspiracy theory, but I'm just saying that it's important that we pay attention to what people are saying and what they are doing. 
   I want to get that other chart and just kind of talk about what happened to the American people. Let me tell you something, I have to fill up my tank, too. My constituents are feeling this pinch, too. And I just want to make sure that folks understand that this is serious business. When you have folks on fixed incomes and they're not receiving cost-of-living adjustments or  whatever the case may be, because the super majority of Americans--the boss man, like they say in the country--they don't necessarily care about your personal problems, about the fact that you can't fill your tank up, about the fact that your child couldn't pay his or her student loans back and you had to stand in for your student loans. My mother always said in the old school--they used to call a guy in Tallahassee, Florida that owned Lewis State Bank, Mr. Speaker, they called him ``Banker Lewis.'' And back in the old school, some of the grandparents and some of the folks that are probably in their 50s and 60s understand, they say co-sign now, they used to have to go down to the bank and credit union and stand for the person that's looking for the loan. Those days are over. And individuals that are looking to make money in a capitalist society, some care about their employees' personal problems, but some don't. And there's nothing wrong with capitalism, I think profits are a good thing, but I also believe that individuals that went to vote for representation here in this U.S. Congress deserve it. And this is what's happening here. 
   Look at the per barrel price, 2001. Remember that other chart that I talked about at Mr. Cheney's meeting--who has a past history in oil, and I guarantee you will have a future in oil--it started off at $25.88. And you can follow over here. And this is not fiction, this is fact. You start going up, up, up, and now we're at $119.37 a barrel. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, if I start saying that unleaded gas is $3.70 or $3.60, there will be many of your constituents and your constituents, Mr. Murphy, and many constituents of Members of Congress here that will say the Congressman is incorrect. No, it's actually $3.80 and $3.90 in some places. And so I think it's important, when we start looking at what small businesses have to pay, what American people have to pay, you know, we have parents that are trying to carpool, get their kids to school. I mean, I live in the urban area. God forbid if I was in a rural area. What happens if I have to drive my soon-to-be 11-year-old son and my 13-year-old daughter 25, 30 miles to school under these circumstances? 
   And we have four pieces of legislation that this Democratic House has passed and waiting for our Republican colleagues, in many cases, to join us. And especially over in the Senate, Mr. Speaker and Members, where they have the 60-vote rule, you can't even bring things up. So you have oil executives going there saying, stand in the door of the Senate or stand in the door of the House and make sure that this doesn't pass or this amendment doesn't go on. It may be counterproductive to your constituents, but stand in that door. That's the kind of stuff we saw in the 108th Congress. That's the kind of stuff that I witnessed in the 109th Congress. But in the 110th Congress, it's a new day, and the people are looking for the kind of representation that they voted for. 
   And I just want to share, and Mr. Speaker, this is not a threat or anything like that because I'm not in that business; I mean, I consider myself a nice guy and I get along with a number of the Members here. As a matter of fact, I don't know of a Member that I'm not on speaking terms with, Democrat or Republican. We all get along. We're colleagues. It's just like you go to work every day, you punch in. There are some people that work in some areas of the office or out on the construction field, but you all say hello to one another, I mean, why don't you? But the only time we separate is when Republican leadership may say, well, we can't be with that because a certain interest doesn't want us to be with that issue; or we have to show the difference between us and the Democrats, even if they're right. Well, back home, for those Americans that know what it means to sit at the dining room table and spread your bills out and figure out how you're going to pay them, those kind of individuals are looking for representation. Those kind of individuals are looking for relief. And they're not necessarily looking for relief for the people that they're paying the bills to, they're looking for the relief for them to help them figure out their dining room problem. 
   And so when we talk about rolling blackouts, when folks' lights go out, or whatever the case may be, I was in Haiti on Sunday evening and Monday, and I could sit and watch the different parts of Port-au-Price, Haiti go into the dark because the country is running through economic problems. That happens in America. There are houses on every block in America--not every block, but some blocks in America that the lights are out, not because they went to bed early, it's that they can't afford the dog-gone bill. 
   And so when we sit here and start playing these games like our Republican leadership tried to do tonight with this whole motion to recommit, saying what are you all doing about gas prices, when turn around three-quarters of them didn't even vote for four of the bills that this Democratic House put forth to give the American people the relief that they called for, and then we're trying to do something about it, and then they try to hijack a good bill and trying to force the Members by saying, well, this Member voted--and we may see this this November, I don't know. Some Members, their motion to recommit, we voted it down, a very bad motion to recommit, ill-advised motion to recommit that some Member that voted for the last four bills to give the American people the relief that they deserve may find it in a political ad sometime soon in their district saying that they voted against some Republican motion to recommit that could not come to reality if it wanted to because it wasn't drafted right, it didn't fit into the bill. But they had the right to be able to put the motion to recommit. So I think it's important that we break this argument down for the American people so that they understand what's going on here. That will not be rewarded. 
   Mr. Speaker, I stood here, as sure as my name is Kendrick Meek, Mr. Ryan and Ms. Wasserman Schultz and others, we stood here on this floor and we told the Members, listen, if you play with the American people, you're going to get stung and it's going to be bad and you're not going to recover from it. Some of you will not be here. Some of you will make career decisions. Check the Congressional Record, I said it. And guess what? We took the majority. And guess what will happen this time around? Those individuals that know what it means when they sit down to the dining room table and try to figure out how they're going to make ends meet when they put their kids to bed, how are they going to meet the bottom line of their situation. And then we have individuals that are standing in here, that are standing in the policy door of this House and not allowing good legislation to pass to give the American people the relief or trying to stop good legislation from passing to give the American people relief.     
   They're not going to think if they're Democrat or Republican or Independent. They're going to vote for the people that are fighting for them, and that's us. 
   So I say to my Republican colleagues respectfully, those individuals that decide to follow leadership, that the track record's not good because I asked them to call some 25 or 30 Members that are now sitting at home reading the actions of Congress in the newspaper when it's dropped in front of their door in the morning. I don't want to be part of that group. I want to be here and have the distinct opportunity to be here in this U.S. House of Representatives that few in this country have had an opportunity to serve in. And I'm proud to be here, and I think every Member should be proud to be here. And I think that should be their first priority when they stand upright and they walk in here and they put this congressional pin on and they walk through the doors because the people expect it and deserve. 
   So, Mr. Murphy, your bill today, like they say in some parts of the country, they had no other choice than to vote for it. But I'm glad that we had the leadership in place, Mr. Speaker, to allow that bill to come to the floor because I can tell you a great bill like that never would have seen the day, never would have under the lights, and never would there have been an opportunity for Members to take out their voting card and vote for it because it wouldn't have been allowed to come to the floor because that was something that we didn't do or they didn't do or  they didn't allow us to do. When I say ``they,'' I mean the Republican leadership. 
   So I don't speak with a silver tongue. I just speak of the truth and reality. And if anyone wants to contradict what I say, you know something, this is a free country. We salute one flag. Folks can get out and say what they want to say. But the Congressional Record is on the side of the Democratic leadership, and the Congressional Record is on the side of what happened and what did not happen. 
   So, Mr. Murphy, I don't feel that we need to even come close to apologizing for anything, and I don't even think that we should be overly offended by the attempts of the past Republican majority to try to push motions to recommit on good pieces of legislation that we are trying to bring to the floor. If I'm thinking politically, I say continue to do those things because we will continue to be in the majority for years and years to come. But the sad part is that the American people lose, and that's the reason why I don't want to promote that. I want us to work together. I want us to work together in a bipartisan way. 
   So, Mr. Murphy, I'm so glad to be here to join you here tonight. I'm glad that you anchored the 30-Something tonight. I'm proud to be a part of it. Your constituents should be very proud of the action that you took today, including our entire country. And the good thing about this institution is that historians will look back on this time and will reflect and read about those that were part of the solution and those individuals that were part of just continuing the political madness that many have written about and many Americans have read about. So congratulations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, my constituents didn't cause this economic mess, but if our action to this crisis is inaction, they would disproportionally bear the brunt of this financial meltdown. The credit market would severely tighten, preventing consumers with excellent credit scores from purchasing a new automobile, sending a son or daughter to college, or refinancing their mortgage to avoid foreclosure. Pension funds would erode, putting senior citizens from our community in an impossible financial situation. Layoffs would be felt throughout south Florida, and inflation would erode buyers' purchasing power. The Department of Labor reported today that the American economy lost 159,000 jobs in September, bringing the total number of jobs lost in 2008 to 760,000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to come before the House once again. As you know, the 30-Something Working Group comes to the floor every week to discuss issues that are at the forefront of what is going on in the country, and there are a lot of good things that are happening here under the Capitol dome on behalf of the American people. 
   As you know, many times we focus on the issue of Iraq, and just to continue to keep the Congress focused on that very issue, and also to keep the American people tuned in on what is happening, as of March 4, 2008, total deaths in Iraq, U.S. casualties, are 3,973; total number of wounded in action and returned to duty is 16,211; and the total number of wounded in action when not returning to duty is 13,109. 
   As we look at these issues and continue to focus on trying to get out of Iraq more sooner than later, I definitely want the Members to continue to focus on the sacrifice that many of our men and women are carrying out on a daily basis, and their families, I must add. 
   Just a case in point, Mr. Speaker, just yesterday I returned. I went to the opening of the Florida legislature. Because of bad weather, I ended up finding myself traveling through Atlanta, and I ended up getting here late yesterday evening. There was a soldier on the plane with us, and I noticed him sitting a couple of seats up ahead of me. I didn't have the opportunity to have a discussion with him. As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I always enjoy talking to our men and women in uniform. 
   He was ahead of me. When he came out of the gate there at the Delta terminal, there were about 30 of his family members there that were just happy to see him. Tears and prayers being answered for this young man coming back home. I understand he is from Virginia. 
   I did have the opportunity, I had one of my congressional coins in my computer bag, and I had the opportunity to shake his hand after 5 minutes of celebration from his family. Many of them were thanking God for his return. This kind of love is really, if one was to use biblical terms, almost close to agape love, the fact that family members had an opportunity to see their son, nephew and father and husband return back. 
   I think we should have the resolve every day, even on weekends, to figure out how we can bring our men and women home. I personally don't have a close relative or family member that is in theater right now, be it in Iraq or Afghanistan, but I want the Members to keep the conscience of those that do have individuals that are in harm's way. 
   There are a number of families on military bases, a number of families that are in subdivisions and communities. There are young people that their fathers and mothers were members of the Army Reserve and members of the National Guard that have their family or their father that is serving in Iraq. 
   Even though we see more peaceful days in Iraq and we don't see the political achievement that the Iraqi Government was supposed to make, I still want to share with the Members of how long can we keep that peace, and at what cost, not only in life but in U.S. taxpayer dollars. 
   As we talk about infrastructure issues here in this country, as we talk about the economy in this country, in Iraq we are financing new infrastructure for the Iraqi people. Here, in the United States, we still have crumbling bridges, projects that are still on the drawing board to be carried out, and they are not being carried out. 
   So as we get into this big discussion with the White House over the budget, as we have the debates in committees, I just want every Member, Democrat and Republican, to think about those that are living in the real world that are looking forward to a celebration that I witnessed last night. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, I would like to talk a little bit about rebuilding our economy and the economic forum on Wednesday that the House Democratic leaders hosted, our second economic forum, the forum which convened national experts on economic and financial issues. It will address the state of America's economy. I think as we look at this whole New Direction Congress, it's important that we look at that we have already passed a bipartisan stimulus package that wasn't all that it should have been or all that it could have been, if I can say that, but it was something. I know that we are going to be working very hard to do even more. It will help create 500,000 American jobs. The plan was targeted as a temporary fix to allow rebates for those families that are most at risk in this bad economy, in this bad economic turndown. I think later this spring, the 
   recovery rebates put hundreds of dollars, up to $600 per individual and $1,200 per married couple, plus a $300 tax credit in the hands of more than 30 million Americans. That is a bipartisan piece of legislation, and I think that it's very, very important that we continue to march in that direction. 
   I also think that it's important that when we look at these record oil prices and we look at some of the things that we are pushing for here on the House floor, and as we work on the Senate side, I think it's important that the Bush administration works with us as we continue to rebuild this economy. Many of the Presidential candidates are out there talking about different proposals, different packages. But I can tell you right now, there's a lot of work to be done, Mr. Speaker and Members, until that actually takes place. 
   I know that the American people are building a lot of hope and enthusiasm around this very issue of the economy, and there are many States that are voting now that are looking at this as a primary action that they would like to see take place. 
   As we also start looking at the economy, we have to also pay attention to what some U.S. families are going through these days. For many of them, it used to be an unaccepted practice to even purchase a car if you couldn't pay for it in cash. It was almost an unaccepted practice to use your credit card to pay your light bill or to buy food at the grocery store. We are having more Americans that are doing that now. 
   More credit card companies are sending many of our constituents credit cards at very, very low interest rates at the beginning, and then 6 months later, kicking in a number of penalties that they are going to have to pay. I think it's important that we keep our eyes on this very issue. 
   This bipartisan feeling and structure that we have here on the floor that we built with the economic stimulus package will also help us offer a new long-  term vision to not only lower fuel prices but to lower health care costs and increase health care quality. That is something that we tried to do, Mr. Speaker, before the closing of the first session of the 110th Congress, and something that we are going to continue to work on. 
   We have made several attempts to be able to lower energy prices and create thousands of new green jobs, providing incentives for clean and renewable energy. I think that it's very, very important that we do that because OPEC knows that we are forever more dependent on them. I encourage those cities and counties and States that are moving more towards clean burning fuel and flex vehicles and hybrids. 
   I was recently in New York and I was very excited to see many of the taxicabs are now transferring over to hybrid vehicles made by Ford. I personally purchased a Ford Escape, and it's a hybrid. Things have gotten better in the Meek family. I think that it's important that we all embrace this concept because it is a national security issue, Mr. Speaker. I think it's also important that we empower American ingenuity and also business tools to win in this global economy. 
   Also, I talked a little earlier about the issues of Iraq getting a big part of the dollars. But the dollars are not necessarily coming to our country and not coming to benefit U.S. families. Just to paint a picture so folks don't feel that I am just talking about energy or talking about it just for the sake of talking about it, Americans are paying more than double for gas than they did when President Bush first took office. 
   You look at January 22, 2001, it was $1.47. I remember those days when I used to fill up the tank. Now, on average, a price of a gallon today is $3.13, and some of my constituents would say, That is a low number, Congressman. I am paying a lot more than that. 
   I think it's important we pay attention. This information is from the Energy Information Administration. Again, these are not charts that someone made up in the back room and said, This looks good, let's put it on the floor. As it relates to gas and oil and home heating costs, they have skyrocketed, and so have oil companies' profits. When you look at the price of gas here, like I pointed out in 2001, at $1.47, you look at 113 percent as relates to the profit line. You look at the oil companies, what they have done over the years goes all the way over to 2008 and the 310 percent profit, in the billions. I think it's important that everyone understand what is happening here as it relates to who's paying and who's benefiting. Profits are not a bad word. But greed is. 
   Mr. Speaker, I don't blame the oil companies, I blame the Republican minority that was once the majority, and also I blame the White House for giving these oil companies an unfair advantage over the U.S. taxpayer. As we start to balance the playing field in a bipartisan way, I am encouraging my colleagues, especially on the Republican side, to think about the price that their constituents are paying at the pleasure of many of these oil companies that are celebrating not only record-breaking profits in the billions, but it is really sad for what is happening, especially right now in the economy. 
   This data was compiled by the Center for American Progress. I think that it's important that we look at and also note that there was a meeting that I had in my folder, and I need to pull that information out, in 2001, with Vice President Cheney and many of the oil executives there at the White House, which is the best public housing in the United States of America and has the most famous office on the face of the Earth, that there was a meeting, and that happened in 2001.     
   Well, I can tell you, it must have been a great meeting, because there was an energy bill that was passed shortly thereafter that gave many of our oil companies an unfair advantage over the U.S. taxpayer and what they pay at the pumps. 
   These are the facts here: $30 billion in 2002 as it relates to profits. If a small business saw this kind of jump, it would no longer be a small business. I don't know of a small business outside of probably a dot.com company or some sort of search engine that picked up a niche and ended up really shooting through the roof as it relates to profits. But they are few and far between. But it seems like all of the oil companies hit the jackpot after this meeting and the endorsement of the Republican Congress. 
   In 2002, $30 billion in profits; 2003, $59 billion in profits; 2004, $82 billion in profits. Meanwhile, we are paying more at the tank, and it is inching up. In 2005, $109 billion in profits; 2006, $118 billion in profits; and 2007, $123.3 billion in profits that many of these oil companies have earned. 
   So when we start talking about turning green, when we start talking about making sure that the U.S. taxpayer gets their fair share and has a balanced playing field, then we have to talk about investing in the Midwest versus the Middle East. We have to talk about creating more green opportunities through biofuels and clean burning fuel here in the United States that will put people to work here in the United States and will maybe turn these companies into investing in the U.S. versus the Middle East. I think it is safer. I think it will get us more out of the conflicts that we find ourselves in in the Middle East, and I believe that it will help our economy beyond what we have seen thus far. 
   The economy right now is based on how much you can borrow. As you can see, the Fed has cut interest rates by half a percentage point, and then they cut it again by half a percentage point. So it really has been built on how much you can borrow, or how much can you take out of the home, which is your financial security. 
   Many U.S. taxpayers and many U.S. citizens have found themselves in the situation where they have to rob Peter to pay Paul and not have those dollars to be able to assist their families in receiving a higher education, or being able to assist their families or young people in their family, assisting them in starting a new business. 
   I think that, Mr. Speaker, when we look at that, we have to look at the way that we are digging ourselves out of this hole. Unless we get out of Iraq more sooner than later, we will find ourselves continuing to see the image of the United States of America financially deteriorate in international markets. I think it is important that every American pays attention to this. 
   I hope I can get my chart that talks about the deficit, because I think that it is important that we focus on that, because even when we look at the economic stimulus package, it was based on borrowed money. It wasn't money because of good financial controls. It wasn't because the President and the Office of Budget and Management have done such a great job. It is not because we had discipline with the Republican Congress that was the Congress before this Congress as it relates to fiscal discipline. We now owe foreign nations more than we have ever owed them in the history of the Republic. 
   I would couch it this way: You have a neighbor that comes over to you and knocks on your door and says, can I borrow $40? And you say, well, this is my neighbor, I believe he is pretty good for it. I will give him the $40. Well, every time you see that neighbor, you are going to think about that $40. I don't care if it is the next day. And when they are talking to you and they don't necessarily mention anything about the $40 that they owe you, now you become a little bitter. Now you don't even want to listen to what that person has to say, unless they are saying they are going to give you your money back. 
   That is the position we are in now in the United States of America. We owe China money. We owe them. We owe OPEC countries money. We owe them. We owe Iran money. Even though folks run around here talking about Iran is a threat, Iran, we owe them money. So when we start to think about these issues, we have to think about them as it relates to making sure that we move in a way that is fiscally sound, and I think that it is important that every Member of Congress pays very close attention to that. 
   When you look at this war, because it is the 800 pound gorilla that is in the room, you have to look at it from the standpoint of saying the money that we are spending there, and I have been there three times in Iraq, the money we are spending there, what is the return? They say, well, who is winning?  Well, I know that my district is not winning, because I am not able to even bring the dollars home I need. 
   We have Members running around here on the floor on the Republican side saying, oh, we need earmark reform, or we need Member project reform, when Republicans ran rampant when they were in charge with all kind of projects, bridges-to-nowhere and all kind of meaningless projects that are out there. 
   Meanwhile, I have a community back in South Florida, they are concerned about road money. They are concerned about mass transit. They are concerned about health care. They are concerned about education. And they want the Federal dollar to be able to make it down there so that we can educate the next generation. Not only in what you may call a pre-K through 12th grade experience, but also higher education. They are concerned about that. 
   Meanwhile, here in Washington, D.C. there is a spending spree on how much money can we send to Iraq? The last $70 billion I voted against going into Iraq. It didn't have any strings attached, it didn't have any accountability measures attached to it. 
   I remember when I first got here about 6 years ago, there was a discussion about we are doing this on the backs of future generations. Now the discussion is we are doing it on our own backs right now. We are weighing ourselves down and our chin is hitting the ground because we have so much weight on it. How much weight? Let me just point it out here. Hopefully the chart will make it here before I finish this segment of what I have to say. 
   When you look at it, and I have a smaller chart right here, hopefully we will have the bigger one, 224 years, 1776 up until 2000, 42 presidents, 42 presidents were only able to borrow $1.01 trillion from foreign nations. That is $1.01 trillion from foreign nations. 
   In 7 years, 6 years of a Republican Congress that was rubber-stamping everything that the President brought to this Chamber, President Bush and that Republican Congress were able to run up $1.33 trillion. That is in 7 years, versus what U.S. presidents in 224 years were able to accomplish. 
   Why do I point that out? I point that out to shed light on this deficit issue. When you pass tax cuts that you can't afford for the very super-wealthy when they are not asking for it, you have two wars going on and you really don't have a plan to take yourself out of the first war in Iraq, I think former President Bill Clinton says it best when you talk about Iraq. I will go back to the neighbor scenario, Mr. Speaker. 
   If there is a fire and your neighbor's house burns, it is the neighborly thing to do for you to accept that 
   individual into your home, and probably their family. All of us would do it. We are all people of goodwill. You will probably let them stay. If you didn't have an extra room, you would let them stay in the living room on the couch, pull the sleeper couch out and let them stay there. Maybe a month will pass and they will still be there. Maybe some will even allow them to stay 6 months. Maybe even a really nice person would let them stay a year-and-a-half. But 5 years later, it is no longer about the fire. 
   So I think it is important that we look at this issue of getting out of Iraq more sooner than later, because it is no longer about the fire, it is about something else. 
   So when we look at this, as I just pointed this out and I want to make sure Members can see it, $1.01 trillion, $1.33 trillion. Seven years, this is what happened under not only the leadership of the Bush administration, but also the Republican Congress. Where did this come from? The U.S. Department of Treasury, which the Secretary of the Treasury is appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the Senate. I think it is important that people understand that I am not on the floor sharing fiction, that I am actually sharing fact. 
   As we look to make these hard decisions, I think it is important that Americans understand that we are paying more on the debt service on the money that we owe these foreign nations and that we owe overall on the debt, we are paying more on that than we are putting into homeland security. So when you have folks coming here waiving arms and carrying on saying that, well, you know, we have got to protect America. I am more standing for protecting America. Oh, I am with the troops. No, I am with the troops. I got a tattoo on my chest saying I am with the troops. When they come here and make these bold statements and giving these great floor statements, I think folks really need to understand what is really going on. 
   Here is a picture, Mr. Speaker. You talk about the 110th Congress and the boldness of Democrats when we came here. With some few Republicans voting with us, we voted to stop the President on the surge. When you look at the surge, it is costing the U.S. taxpayers billions and billions and billions of dollars that, again, from the first chart, that we borrowed. 
   This is the President and some of our Republican colleagues on the other side, as a matter fact, a supermajority of them that were there saying, Mr. President, we are going to be with you. We are 40-plus. They cannot override you, because we are going to stand with you in harmony. 
   Here is a picture to make that point, to make it visual for you, because I just want to make sure that Members don't feel that there is anything that is being shared here that is not true. 
   This is the chart, again, talking about the dollars. Look at Japan. This is actually in the billions of dollars, $644.3 billion that we owe Japan. China has a double margin here. They are up there at $349.6 billion. I think it is important that everyone understands what is happening there. Then it goes on to the U.K., $239.1 billion. These numbers are actually higher now. But these are the numbers that I just wanted to make sure going across. 
   You see this other red bar here that talks about OPEC nations? Those are nations that are oil producing nations. They sit in a room and talk about what a barrel of oil will cost, and it will affect our neighborhoods and heating oil prices and all. 
   So when we start talking about the management of the country and start talking about how we are going to move in the right direction, I think it is important that everyone pays attention to who is getting what they want and who is not getting what they need. 
   Here is another example. The President proposed deep cuts in key priorities, in the COPS Program, which is Community Oriented Policing. I used to be a state trooper. I can tell you that many of my colleagues in law enforcement, there are a number of sheriffs, the National Association of Sheriffs, the National Association of Chiefs, they all fight for this Community Oriented Policing. 
   What does it do? Well, it actually makes communities safer, and it allows them to be able to put bike patrols and foot patrols in neighborhoods where usually you will have crime. It allows them also, Mr. Speaker, to be able to go and create after-school programs for young people that are at risk. But that has received a 100 percent cut. 
   Talk about weatherization assistance. When we look at the whole issue of heating oil prices and what it costs to heat a home right now, Mr. Speaker, I think it is important for everyone to understand that those individuals that are financially challenged, especially those receiving Social Security benefits, are not able to receive any assistance whatsoever. A 100 percent cut in that program. 
   When we look at the Department of Homeland Security, First Responder Grants, they took a 78 percent cut. What does that mean back in the hometown or the parish or what have you? It means that 78 percent of what the Federal Government would have given to your local government to protect the homeland has now been cut, and those dollars are hard to find. 
   When you look at EPA Clean Water Grants, that has been cut by 21 percent. When you look at Community Development Block Grants, that has been cut by 20 percent. When you look at the Low Income Energy Assistance Program, that has been cut by 17 percent. 
   I give those examples and I am making those points, Mr. Speaker, to say that when you look at $70 billion in Iraq and you look at no-strings-attached, they seem to be able to get away with what U.S. taxpayers and U.S. cities and U.S. mayors and governors cannot get away with.     
   This past Tuesday, and I mentioned earlier at the top of this hour, I had  the opportunity to go to the opening session of the Florida legislature. I heard the House Speaker talk about the deficit in the State of Florida, some 4 billion plus dollars that they have to be able to fill the gap, because they are not like those of us that are here that can be able to take out a high interest credit card and say, let's put it on that card, whatever it costs. We will worry about it later, but we just need to do it now whatever we feel like doing. 
   In the States, they actually have to balance. Constitutionally, they have to balance their budget. So that means something has to be taken from someone else to fill that gap. And so when you start filling that gap, I want to make sure that everyone in America understands that you are talking about cutting assistance to seniors, you are talking about higher tuition rates in colleges. Even though we cut student loan rates here on the Federal end as relates to interest rates, they are going to end up seeing higher tuition because they have got to make ends meet. You are going to end up seeing many of our youth programs cut. You are going to end up seeing many assistance for small businesses at the State level cut. They are going to have to find that $4 billion in Florida from somewhere. 
   So I think it is very, very important, we started looking at this whole issue of Iraq and accountability and all of the things that we talk about here on the floor. You have got to think about how these decisions trickle down to local government. When you start looking at the Bush tax cuts for those that are the connected and the wealthy, we start looking at that as devolution of taxation. We've cut your taxes up here in Washington, blah, blah, blah. You look at the previous Republican Congress, oh, this is what we've done. Apparently the American people caught on to it and that's why the Democrats are in the majority now. It's devolution of taxation. 
   What does devolution of taxation mean? It means once you cut something here, you're going to have to balance in the local government area. So the State government has to cut what it gives to local governments and school boards and parishes. And then, when it gets to the local government, they're going to have to make cuts to be able to fill the gaps, the obligation that the State is not making. 
   So when you look at those gaps being filled, I can guarantee you that many of my constituents and many of us who know what it means to punch in and punch out and have a 15-minute break in the morning and a solid half-hour for lunch and if you get a 15-minute break in the afternoon. But those individuals that know what that means, then they know that they're going to end up getting the short end of the stick, or the messy end of the stick as we may say down in Florida. 
   I think it is important that people understand what is happening here and what is not happening here. What is not happening here is that the President is not moving in a responsible way to get us out of Iraq. There is great debate as it relates to the Presidential candidates. The picture that I showed you of a number of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle who stood with the President and said that they will not allow him to be overridden and there they are there standing in the picture, are standing in the schoolhouse door as it relates to the kind of reform that should be happening. 
   What is happening here, to give you a report on that, is that there is a great attempt to be able to try to bring ourselves back into fiscal control as it relates to the budget and start working on knocking down this deficit. We are paying more on the debt service than we pay on Homeland Security. That is a problem. If the debt service is in competition with what we invest in education, that is a problem. 
   So when you look at these issues and you look at 2010 and the sunset of these Bush tax cuts, when you look at what first responders are not getting, 100 percent cut as relates to the COPS program, community-oriented policing program that many law enforcement officials called for and endorse 110 percent; when you look at these issues and you say that there is no money, when you have crumbling bridges here in the U.S. and you have bridges that are being built in Iraq by U.S. contractors and Middle Eastern contractors, you can't help but question who is doing the right thing and who is doing the wrong thing. Because, I am going to tell you right now, it is not happening. In all of the Congressional districts that you look around, I don't see any Congressional district saying, Oh, we're happy with what we have. We don't need anything else. We don't care about infrastructure and making and creating U.S. jobs. We don't care about investment and green collar jobs to where if we wanted to put sod on the top of the Capitol building, that won't be an overseas job. If someone dropped out of high school, they have an opportunity to take part in that. If someone went on to college, if someone went on to post-education and became an architect and they would have a part in that. Will it build our economy? Truck drivers will make money. You will have individuals in the agriculture field that will make money and will be able to stimulate our economy for real jobs. We would no longer have the discussion that took place in Ohio just last night as relates to the Presidential primary on who is shipping jobs overseas and who is creating jobs on land here in the United States. 
   So as we look at that, Mr. Speaker, I think that we should look at it from the standpoint that we have to win. The U.S. taxpayer must win. We are here to represent that individual. I didn't come to represent anybody else on another continent; I came here to represent, not only my constituents, but by them voting for me to be here, Mr. Speaker, they federalized me to be able to deal with the issues of the United States of America and be a part of board of directors of the greatest country on the face of the Earth. We want that to continue to be the case. 
   What we don't want is what we are seeing, the downward spiral, irresponsible spending, and the cuts that the Bush White House has said that has to be made to be able to carry out a mission in Iraq that has no end in sight as far as they are concerned. I think that the American people will rise up once again in the upcoming election in saying that we are willing to put in the people who are going to put an end to this practice. 
   I beg my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to please join us, those of us on the Democratic side that are trying to find a way to not only bring about accountability in Iraq, but bring our men and women home so that they can be reunited with their families; so that they can actually go to some of the programs that I go to of my kids. I get an opportunity to see them. I had an opportunity to have dinner with my family this afternoon earlier. I just want them to have that opportunity. I want the men and women that serve in uniform to have that opportunity. I want that State Department worker that has had to volunteer to go to Iraq to have that opportunity. I want that church or that synagogue or that mosque to be able to spend that spare time in trying to build families versus trying to comfort families of what is going on with their loved ones in harm's way. I want that kind of America that we are used to seeing. 
   Like I said earlier, it is no longer about the fire, it is about something else. And I think that it is important that the Members, their number one priority should be every day that they hit this floor is how they can reunite these families and to be able at the same time save the U.S. taxpayer money or their investment. If we can come to the floor and put $70 billion like that, and that is without my vote, over into Iraq to continue what the President would like to see carried out in Iraq, then we should be able to do the same in stimulating our economy here domestically and making U.S. families stronger and making Americans stronger. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, as usual, the 30-Something Working Group, we do want to hear from the Members. I want to make sure that the Members share information with us and staff share information with us. You can e-mail us at the 30SomethingDems@mail.house.gov. That is 30SomethingDems@mail.house.gov. Also, we encourage the Members, and all of the charts that we have here are also on www.speaker.gov/30something. 
   I think it is also important to note, Mr. Speaker, that we look forward to the coming days as we start to tackle  these issues every month of this year, I think, leading up until maybe about 4 or 5 more months, the Members will have an opportunity to go back to their districts for a week and have these district work weeks. 
   I encourage all of our constituents to engage us on these issues and to continue to keep the pressure on so that we make the right decisions here in Washington, DC. 
   Mr. Speaker, it was an honor to address the House once again. I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to be here on the floor tonight. It is like old times, Mr. Ryan and Ms. Wasserman Schultz. And we have the gas pump there, and it is just, you, know a wonderful feeling. 
   Mr. Speaker, just to see you in the Chair there inspired me as an American to continue to be a part of this great democracy of ours. Our good friends from the Clerk's office and the Capitol Police and all the folks that make it possible for us to be here tonight, we are just forever appreciative. 
   As you know, in the 109th and 108th Congress, this was the trio here. Ms. Wasserman Schultz brought quite a bit of class to our operation. She came in the 109th Congress, and, Mr. Ryan, we started to wear better ties and study more so that we could keep up with an educated policymaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan started wearing his pink ties, which my daughter always says, real men wear pink. That is actually salmon, but we won't talk about it. 
   Mr. Speaker, in all seriousness, we have an awful lot of business that will be taking place in the next 24 hours. We are approaching Memorial Day, and there have been a lot of reports about the Iraq emergency supplemental. There has been a lot of discussion about lobbying reform. There has been a lot of discussion about the reauthorization of the agriculture bill. But I can tell you one thing, Mr. Speaker: Unlike previous Congresses, the work is being done here by those of us that are under the dome, doing what the people of America sent us up here to do. 
   As we talk about the war, I think it is important to know that the issues in Iraq and Afghanistan are very, very serious to all of us here, to all of us in Washington, D.C., and Americans throughout the country, and especially the family members of those serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. We always give this report. As of 10 a.m. this morning, the death toll in Iraq as it relates to the men and women in uniform is 3,424; wounded in action and returning to duty is 14,073; and wounded in action and not returning to duty is 11,476. I think it is very important that we pay very close attention to those numbers. 
   The days of six supplementals passing off of this floor, half a trillion dollars spent and no strings attached to any of those appropriation dollars, those days are over. I am very proud of the leadership in the House and the Senate in fighting with the White House and bringing about the kind of accountability that the American people have called for. 
   You heard me say here on this floor in the past, Mr. Speaker, that there have been bills that in the spirit of the bill, I voted for those bills, but as it relates to the substance of those bills, I have had a few problems with the lack of accountability. That is paramount now in this bill that hopefully will pass the House floor tomorrow. There are benchmarks. There are reporting periods that the President has to report back to the Congress. In September, we will be coming in for a landing and making some real decisions. 
   The Iraqi Parliament, as you know, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, they have been holding quite a few conversations, as a matter of fact, talking about going on vacation for 60 days. The Defense Minister called his Ministers together to plan for an immediate U.S. withdrawal of troops, because I believe they know with this new Congress in place, the days of the Iraqi Government drawing down on the taxpayer dollars, the U.S. taxpayer dollars, without accountability, are over; and if they are not willing to reform themselves, then we should not be willing to have our men and women on the streets of Iraq fighting on behalf of safety and patrolling the streets, when the Iraqis are not doing what they are supposed to be doing. 
   With that, I will yield to one of my good friends. I will yield to Ms. Wasserman Schultz, who is a very good friend, and then Mr. Ryan comes in after her in my friendship. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Mr. Ryan. Mr. Ryan, you gave one great floor speech when you came down and said these are the same people who told us we will be greeted as liberators. These are the same people who told us oil revenues will be used to pay for the war. These are the same people who told us this will be a sweeping mission. These are the same people that told us there were weapons of mass destruction. These are the same people that told us there was a connection between Saddam Hussein and al Qaeda. These are the same people that went on and on and on. You can go on YouTube and watch it. I remembered and watched it, and I thought it was one of your better speeches on the floor. I will reserve comment on how many you have made, but that is one of the better ones. 
   Mr. Ryan, it is very unfortunate that right now we are breeding terrorists, people that will dislike the United States of America for the rest of their lives. That wasn't our mission in Iraq, and that is the reason why, before the election, a majority of Democrats were saying, and some Republicans were saying, that we should redeploy our troops to the peripheral and not do the street patrols in Iraq. 
   How are we losing our troops? Going door to door, kicking in doors, riding down the streets. IEDs are blowing up and killing many of our men and women. They are not being killed in the training missions. I haven't heard one casualty, maybe there has been one, but I haven't heard of one casualty of any of our men and women training Iraqi troops in how to protect their country and how to protect their own streets. 
   Case in point, let me paint this picture because I think it is important as we debate this emergency supplemental. When you look at the fact that the U.S. troops with the flag on their shoulder kicking the door searching for the three that were missing, going door to door, those children, that son, that grandfather, that mother will say that the United States kicked my door in. How do we get to this point, I am innocent and we are laying on the floor at 2 a.m. with semiautomatic weapons pointed at my family? Those individuals end up listening to the rhetoric of radical terrorist groups that are saying, they are not here for you, they are here to terrorize your family. 
   That is why we have to get out of the position of this door-to-door and street-to-street combat in Iraq when the Iraqis themselves should be carrying out that mission. It is so very, very important. 
   Like I said, six emergency supplementals, half a trillion dollars of  blank checks to this administration; no more. That is the reason why we are having benchmarks. That is why the White House has to come here and report to Congress. 
   I heard one of the Republican Members say we are supposed to receive reports. Well, that is a revelation. Here we are in charge of the Federal purse. We are responsible. We are the board members, if you want to put it that way, over the U.S. Treasury, and all of a sudden now many of our Republican Members are saying, yes, we are supposed to receive reports. 
   That should have been happening from the beginning. Maybe then the death toll wouldn't be what it is, and maybe we may have more coalition partners in this effort if it was run right from the beginning versus send us a blank check and don't ask any questions. 
   So the President can say what he wants to say. Memorial Day is coming up. We have men and women who have laid down and sacrificed. Many of them have paid the ultimate sacrifice. Many of the men and women that fought with them remember those who paid the ultimate sacrifice, and still we are here playing games with the democracy that they allow us to celebrate today, under what we may call kingdom politics of the President feeling that you shouldn't ask any questions; I trust my advisors, and I trust the generals in the field. 
   Well, I trust the generals in the field, too. And I have a level of trust for the administration, but the track record doesn't support don't ask any questions; we don't need any strings attached; you are trying to take my power away. We are not trying to take power away, we are just trying to make sure that the Federal tax dollar is spent in an appropriate way and we save as many American lives as possible. 
   Ms. Wasserman Schultz, no one, Democrat or Republican, should apologize for what is going on right now in Washington, DC. I think many of our friends who believe we should be out of Iraq tomorrow, we should send every plane we can possibly send, take our troops out, redeploy our troops and just leave it as is, there is a process in doing that. We are going through that process right now. A lot of it is very painful. 
   Some say, why are you giving the President another opportunity to continue this war and continue to fight this war? Haven't you learned over the last 5 years that the strategy they are using is a combat strategy, not a diplomatic strategy, not making sure there are benchmarks on the Iraqi Government, and they had that opportunity. 
   I encourage, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, when we do get a bill on the floor, we do have a number of Republicans voting on behalf of this next supplemental, and a number of Democrats voting on behalf of the supplemental. And those that feel the war should end tomorrow should understand that this is a major accomplishment in the effort in taking away what the President has had for the last 5 years: a blank check, do as you want to do, Donald Rumsfeld and all of them. 
   As Mr. Ryan says, as I close on this point, the real issue here is the truth will surface. Some of it has already surfaced, and a lot of it will continue to surface as we learn more about what the Congress was not told and as we learn more about what we were told incorrectly. And as Americans reflect back on this time, they will see some of the worst misinformation and secrecy at a time of war and a time of economic strain on this country. 
   We have borrowed more from foreign nations than we have ever borrowed in the history of the Republic; and still, we have Members standing here asking what is wrong. Well, the reason we are in the majority on this side of the aisle, we are very busy leading on behalf of the American people, is a perfect example of what is wrong. 
   The American people know what is going on. I am not talking about a bunch of proud Democrats. I am talking about Independents and Republicans and those who have never voted before in their life, they decided to get involved and vote. If this was just about politics, we would just go home or be in our offices doing the things we need to do for tomorrow, and let the Democratic majority get bigger and bigger because we would lead the Republicans to doing and saying what they have been doing all along. 
   But this is bigger than politics. This is about our democracy. This is about our finances here in the country, and this is about saving U.S. lives that are in harm's way right now when we can work out a better plan and force the Iraqi Government to take the responsibility of their streets, take the responsibility of their patrols, and make sure that they meet benchmarks just like every U.S. mayor has to meet with Federal dollars, just like every U.S. Governor has to meet when they are spending Federal dollars. Just like every U.S. agency should be accountable to the taxpayer dollars, the Iraqi Government and those in the Iraqi Government should be just as accountable and greater with the U.S. taxpayer dollars. 
   I don't want to get all emotional, like Mr. Ryan said, but I can't help but do it when I think about Memorial Day coming up and when I think about the veterans' benefits that we have in the emergency supplemental. 
   We have some folks saying we shouldn't have any 
   domestic spending in here, and we have troops coming back and still waiting a long time to get their service. It was the Democrats that put forth the dollars to make sure that Walter Reed was repaired. That is also in this emergency supplemental. We will talk a little more about that as we move along. 
   I know we are going to talk about gas prices in the time left. Ms. Wasserman Schultz, I think we should commend every American for being focused on this issue of Iraq and encourage a discourse. 
   I was out behind the Chamber today on the balcony, and I noticed a person out there on a bullhorn saying, ``Stop the war.'' I wasn't bothered by that because the men and women that we are going to celebrate on Monday fought for that lady to be out there saying what she was saying. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. That is right. That is what it is all about. And this is not a kingdom, this is a democracy, we have to tolerate one another now and then, but we have to make sure that we make sound decisions on behalf of the Republic. 
   Ms. Wasserman Schultz, I yield to you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know what they say. They have Democrats and Republicans and members of the Appropriations Committee, and I happen to be on the floor with two of them. One is a cardinal and one thinks that he's actually running the country, but I would say that as we continue to talk about this, especially in Armed Services, and Chairman Ike Skelton has done an excellent job in the defense authorization bill, getting us to a readiness stage where we can deal with the issues, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, that you outlined. 
   These are very important issues, especially the Gulf Coast States or any State that has a, Kansas for instance, it has a natural disaster or have a disaster where they need the National Guard to have the equipment that they need, it's in that authorization bill, and I want to thank not only my colleagues on the committee but also Mr. Skelton for all of his hard work on the authorization end. 
   But I think it's also important for us to note that our mission, we talk about redeployment. We're talking about redeployment and deploying a diplomatic corps to work with the Iraqi Government and have a surge in diplomacy or an escalation in diplomacy. Why can't we get other countries to join us? Well, why would they want to join something that is going to create more terrorism or terrorists in their country? That's what we're doing, and so I think it's important for everyone to understand that. 
   And I share that with my constituents when I go out to speak to them. We're in here having this meeting here, we're sitting in this living room, and someone kicks in the door and come in and do a security search; how would you feel? Who would be responsible for that? You would be outraged. 
   Iraq is not the United States, by far, but I want to share with you that many of our men and women are following the duty that we've asked them to carry out, and they trust us that we will ask the questions that we should ask here in Washington, DC and carry it out. 
   I just want you to respond to that because I know that you have some words of wisdom, especially on that end, in all seriousness, because it's just simple common sense to do the things we should be doing. It does not take a rocket scientist, and you don't have to be a four-star general to understand that what we're doing is not working. And to say let's keep doing it and declassifying information and saying this is the reason why I did this, this is the reason why I did that, it still does not equate to why we're still doing the same thing and expecting different results. 
   I will use this analogy before I yield to you. It's almost like going to the refrigerator and taking out a carton of milk, taking a smell of the milk and saying, wow, it's sour, I will put it back in and maybe it'll be fresh tomorrow. It works against logic. 
   And what's happening now is that the strategy that the White House has works against logic, but unfortunately, it would be okay if it was just an individual, but it's dealing with U.S. lives. I know all of us want to save lives, but we have to make sure that we do everything we can to send a message to the White House, and also man up and woman up here in Congress, and be leaders in that direction towards safety and accountability and moving the Iraqi issue in a new direction. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Very good. As we close, I know that we have our Web site that we need to give out. Well, we don't have time, but let me just do this. Mr. Murphy talked about this. 
   These are another record year for oil company profits, in 2007, record profits, $30.2 billion they have been able to achieve, and $6.5 billion in 2002; and 2007, $30.2 billion. I think those are pretty good years for oil companies. It seems to happen, and I am not a Member of Congress with a conspiracy theory, but, with the Bush administration and the White House, looked like oil companies have done better than many Americans have done. 
   As I talk to my friends and those that have F-10 pickup trucks, what have you, it's costing upwards of $80 just for a small business to run that truck, which is going to end up costing the U.S. taxpayers even more when they go for goods and services. We do have our Web site, and we will give that real quick, and we will close. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. We are trying to slingshot the firefighters and first responders in for a win. We are trying to give those protecting our homeland on the front line, we are trying to give them what they need. 
   There is an old saying that the field mouse is fast, but the owl can see at night. I think it is very, very important that everyone understands that even though procedural, and it may be funny in the Republican conference, oh, we showed them, remember the Congressional Record reflects what one says and what one does. 
   If you want to take the time, and I want to say in the 30-Something Working Group we want to be correct. We found eight motions to rise last night. As we talk about this, when I go back home I tell my constituents, we are doing everything possible to end this war in Iraq. The last thing that we want to do is not give our service men and women what they need while we get through this partisan impasse. 
   Secondly, it is going to take a bipartisan fix to deal with Iraq. Democrats cannot do it alone because we don't have the votes. We have put benchmarks and redeployment of combat troops and moving our troops out to the peripheral, giving more responsibility to the Iraqi government, defunding some of the things that we said we would fund to the Iraqi government based on the fact that we don't want to reward lack of work or bad behavior or lack of accountability. 
   And I think as we start all of these different agencies that are looking into these issues, as they start to release the reports and as we start to look at them, we look at the lack of funding and the lack of accountability that has taken place in Iraq. As we look at this, I came to the floor to share with my Republican colleagues and be on the record so that Americans will know that you all of us have a choice. Over 70-plus percent of Americans, and I am not going to an exact number, but 70-plus percent of Americans would like to see us out of Iraq. 
   Democrats, Republicans, people that vote for the first time, Independents, are waiting for the kind of leadership that should happen and needs to happen, but it has to happen in a bipartisan spirit. I didn't see any Democrats saying we will not participate in overriding the President's veto. I want to also say that the President wouldn't even have the opportunity to take out his veto pen if it wasn't for a Democratic Congress bringing that issue to the floor and voting in the affirmative to make it happen. It would not have happened. I share that with my constituents and Members of Congress. 
   I think it is important when we look at the issue, 218 gets us to where we need to be in terms of votes. But we need more Members to tell the President, we will not stand for the status quo because American lives are at stake. We know that many members of the Bush administration are well intended. I don't think that they are saying we are going to continue to carry out bad ideas that bring about bad results. I don't think that is premeditated thought. But those of us who are paying attention, reading and listening, understand that what we are doing now is not the answer. 
   I can commend many of the Members for voting or against the spirit of benchmarks and voting for accountability. I commend that. But July 15, September 15, it is going to be an opportunity for folks to be able to hear information and to be able to bring that information to the House of Representatives and for us to take a vote and for us to take a vote in the affirmative. 
   Sp those who went to the White House and said, we will stand against our very own colleagues in Congress if you try to override the President, to think about it. Think about it if you are going to go down there again. Think about appropriation bills where America is in need of domestic attention. The will of a majority here in this House is concerned about education, concerned about health care, concerned about the lack of resources our veterans have. We are concerned about our transportation and infrastructure. We are concerned about moving in the direction of creating our own energy, investing in the Midwest versus the Middle East and concerned about homeland security. 
   Do you want to continue to stand with the President against the will of the majority of the Congress when the American people are on the side of the U.S. Congress as it relates to Iraq? How many times do you want to walk through the gates of the White House and stand with the President on this very issue? 
   So I want to, I implore my colleagues, my Republican colleagues, I am not saying, stand with Democrats; I am saying, stand with your constituents. Stand with the American people. Stand with what is making sense right now, and that is making sure that we get our troops out of the middle of a civil war. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, it is almost like that was a benediction of our Special Order here today. I just want to say, because you are going to have to yield back your time, that I want to not only commend those who work here in the House, the Clerk's Office and the Sergeant's Office and the Capitol Police and the folks from the physical plant, clerical staff and what have you, I appreciate it. It was a long night last night, and it has been a long week. 
   Also, Mr. Ryan, I think it is important, I want to thank you for coming down to the floor. I want to thank Mr. Sestak for coming to the floor, my good friend from Pennsylvania, who spoke in a very forceful way about this issue of Iraq. 
   Madam Speaker, I am glad that, on the Democratic side of the aisle, we still have the resolve that we had when we were in the minority. Mr. Ryan and I both have an opportunity now to serve on two wonderful committees.     
   I actually serve on two. He serves on the mighty and very powerful Appropriations Committee that he reminds me of constantly, and I have the opportunity to serve on the Ways and Means Committee and the Armed Services Committee, through waiver of the Democratic Steering Committee. 
   So the fact that we would come to the floor to say that we promised the American people that we were going to do things differently and that we had a new direction and still feel that it's our job to come to the floor and ask our colleagues on the Republican side of the aisle to work with us and work by us on these national security issues and the issues that are facing our children I think speaks to the level of intent that we had of saying, if you give us the opportunity to lead, we will lead. 
   So, with that, I thank Mr. Ryan for allowing me to be a part of your hour. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to come before the House, and we know that we have been working very hard over the last couple of days in trying to move these appropriation bills. I hope that we are successful and on schedule in moving these bills, because the American people deserve it. 
   Also, as you know, when the 30-Something Working Group comes to the floor, we share the latest numbers out of Iraq. Unfortunately, they have gotten greater than they were before as it relates to casualties. Total deaths in Iraq at this time stands, as of 10:00 a.m. on the 7th of June, 3,490; and wounded in action and returned to duty, 14,208; and wounded in action and not returned to duty, 11,622. 
   I think it's also important to know that when we moved the emergency  supplemental act or bill, those two amendments did the following, one, provided those that are in harm's way with the necessary MWRAP vehicles that they needed for protection against IEDs, which is one of the main reasons why we lose men and women in Iraq. 
   It also set forth the benchmarks that we know that there will be two reports by September that will come before this Congress and that the dollars that are only troop essential, only for troops and not for the actual mission, will be taken under serious consideration. 
   I say, Mr. Speaker, that it's important that we have a bipartisan approach as it relates to looking at these two reports that will be given to us. 
   The only way we're able to find our way out of Iraq any time in the very near future is through a bipartisan spirit. I think it's important that we talk about this from a leadership standpoint. 
   To get out of Iraq and do the things that we need to do to meet the needs of this country, it's going to take courage; it's going to take leadership. I am not just talking about the elected leadership in this House on the Republican side or on the Democratic side, I am talking about leadership on behalf of the Members of this Congress in a bipartisan way from east to west, from south to north.     
   We have accomplished bipartisanship in the past on major issues that have come before this Congress. And many times I speak of the fact that it was the Democratic leadership that brought these issues to the floor, and we knew all along that a number of our Republican colleagues wanted to vote on these issues. But, now, in the 110th Congress we've provided an opportunity for them to do so. This is not a follow or lead kind of situation when it comes down to the safety of those that are in harm's way. 
   And I just wanted to also mention, not only the benchmarks, not only the reports and the debate that's going to be coming up on this floor between now and September, but also what took place in that other amendment, the full funding for the gulf coast area as it relates to Louisiana, Mississippi, even Texas, Katrina, Wilma, and Rita, funding that has been clogged up in this process for a very long time. 
   But I want to thank those that were very courageous in hanging in there and making sure in the bipartisan way that we passed that legislation to help those Americans that count on us to stand up on behalf of their needs as a country. 
   Also, I think it's important that within that legislation, that emergency supplemental that passed through, off this floor, in a bipartisan way, waived the 10 percent Stafford Act, which I recently heard my good colleague and my friend, the majority whip speak in a very eloquent way about this recently, Mr. Clyburn. 
   9/11, the 10 percent requirement local match for Federal dollars in the Stafford Act, that's when Federal dollars are given to locals after a disaster, that the 10 percent match was waived. New York did not have to carry out that match. Even my very own community in south Florida, when Hurricane Andrew hit, that 10 percent was waived. And a number of other natural disasters, in California, one earthquake was 10 percent, was waived. 
   But until we had the strong leadership here in this Congress to even bring this issue to the forefront, because the administration did not want to deal with this issue, that it was brought to the floor to waive the funding for the people of New Orleans and the people of the gulf coast and all of the small parishes and cities in between. I think that came to some sort of number of 3.6-something billion, somewhere in that neighborhood, and that match alone saved the City of New Orleans, a little bit under a billion dollars with the 10 percent on that number. 
   I think it's important to understand that when we work in a bipartisan way, we can get things accomplished. 
   Now, could that have passed with just Democratic votes? Of course it could have. But there are less than 100 votes against us from sending those emergency dollars, not only to those victims of Hurricane Rita, Hurricane Katrina, Hurricane Wilma, but also it allowed us to have the opportunity to be able to stand up on behalf of the children without health insurance. 
   When I talk about bipartisanship and tie Iraq into that equation, I think it's important for me to pull the evidence out of how we've worked together under the democratic leadership in the House and bringing issues to the floor that we can be Americans on, not just Democrats and Republicans. 
   Implementing the 9/11 Commission recommendation, H.R. 1, passed with 299 votes, and with 68 Republicans voting in the affirmative with Democrats. 
   Raising the minimum wage, H.R. 2, passed 315, with 82 Republican votes, and the rest, a supermajority of them were Democratic votes. 
   Funding to enhance stem cell research, 253 in the affirmative, 37 of those votes were Republican votes. 
   Making prescription drugs more affordable for seniors, 255; 24 Republicans joined us in that effort. 
   Cutting student loan, low-interest rates in half, H.R. 5, 356 votes; 124 of those votes were Republican votes. 
   Working in a bipartisan spirit, creating a long-term energy initiative as it relates to making sure that we're able to invest in the Midwest versus the Middle East, 264 votes, which is H.R. 6, with 36 Republicans joining us in that effort. 
   I think it's important to know that, and that was just in the Six for '06. But I think it's important for the Members to understand that it's important, and as we approach these reports and these benchmarks and the things that the Iraqi Government must do to be able to continue to receive, even beyond the 3-month funding that we've put in place until September; I want the Members to pay attention to these reports as they come before the Congress. 
   I want them to pay attention to the debate that we will have next month on this issue, and vote as an American, not as someone as a Democrat or Republican. I just want the Members to be able to understand that the Democratic leadership is providing this opportunity for us to come together as one on behalf of those that are in harm's way. 
   I think it's also important for the report that comes in in September, and I will tell you as a person that's paying very close attention to this, let alone, Member of Congress, I don't know if the report is going to be much better than what the situation is right now, but if there's a process to get our men and women out of--our combat troops, I must add, out of Iraq, going door to door, kicking in doors, 3:00 searches to bring about security in an area of Iraq or Baghdad itself, we have to allow the Iraqi Government to be able to do those things on behalf of their country to be able to carry out those security missions. 
   And I will tell you, someone that has, you know, children and, hopefully they will have children, and as we move on to future generations, I think it's important for us to understand that there has to be some point in this war where we give a supermajority of the responsibility of security to the Iraqi people. 
   I think it's very, very important that if we don't live by the rules that have been put forth in these benchmarks and the benchmarks that was in the emergency supplemental, and if we don't treat these two reports to Congress as Members of Congress versus a member of a given party, then this whole process that we set up to be able to give the administration an opportunity to share not only to the world, but to this Congress, that our mission there is still needed for security of the Iraqi people. 
   I think it's very, very important for us, because, you know, it's good to say, well, you know it's good to make sure that families are secure. But it's counterproductive in many ways. And Madam Speaker, I think it's important that we really reflect on what are the positives and the negatives. 
   Well, let me just talk a few minutes about the possible positives, making sure that we can help for a longer period of time the Iraqi Government to be able to secure itself and stand up on its own two feet, have the kind of democracy that's good for Iraq, probably not as good for the United States, but good for that area of the world. And there are some other countries and people are saying, Good job, United States. Those are the possible positives. 
   Let's talk about the negatives just for a minute; not to say that there  aren't other positives that are out there, but I don't want to take too much time on this particular point. 
   The negatives: The negatives come in a package that many of us cannot comprehend. And I know a number of Members have not taken the privilege that many Members that are from the national security arena or serve on the committees, but I welcome the Members to go to the Pentagon, or I welcome the Members to get the kind of briefing that many of us have received here in Congress about what our men and women are doing in Iraq. 
   Well, it goes something like this, or you can just watch any of the cable news shows and it'll show you exactly what they're doing. Many times, as it relates to these security missions, because there's a civil war that's going on right now in Iraq that our troops are in the middle of, they have to carry out security missions. And in those security missions, many times, locks and deadbolt locks on doors are kicked in, and it's not at a reasonable hour when folks know when you're coming, house search, looking for insurgents. 3:00, 4:00 in the morning, families are brought into the middle of the floor, flashlights are shining in their face. 
   And I will tell you this: Someone that's living here in the United States, if something like that was to happen at my home, I'm pretty sure that all involved would never forget the event. 
   It's motivating our actions there of fighting on behalf of the Iraqi Government and the people and trying to keep the peace, even though we're all well-intentioned, and our purpose is not to harm individuals, but as you look at it, it's one of the things that kind of come along with security in that part of the world. And it's necessary as long as we're there. And that's the reason why we have to get our combat troops out. 
   Just like many Americans were super-motivated after 9/11 to go to either one of our Armed Forces offices to sign up to join the military and go to Afghanistan, these young men, mainly, and women, are signing up to join the jihad against the United States of America in a radical way. And it doesn't make sense to a lot of us, but all they remember is that someone who had a U.S. flag on their shoulder kicked in their door, and instead of bringing the peace, and instead of us getting the kind of rose petals and seen as liberators; and as it was explained to us by the administration and by many of the folks that came before the Armed Services Committee, I think it's important for us to understand that the negative is the counterproductive action that is taking place now that's putting us in a situation that we've never been in before, where we have other countries questioning our motivation for being in Iraq. 
   So I want to make sure I'm saying it in a very plain way, because I'm not trying to get into acronyms and trying to head into an area that many Members, because you don't serve on the area or the subject, or you haven't served professionally in the Armed Forces, or you haven't been in a command position, I'm not talking--and I haven't either, but I want to make sure that we all understand, because I think the coming days and the coming weeks are going to be very, very important to not only the future of Iraq, but also the future of our country. I want to make sure that we have an opportunity to talk about some other issues here today. 
   But I wanted to recognize my colleague from Pennsylvania, who is here to not only talk about this issue, but other issues that may be facing the Congress. 
   I yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Sestak). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, I thank my friend from the great State of Pennsylvania. I think it is also important. 
   It is also important to recognize those that have been in the field. Like I said, I personally haven't, but I am a Member of Congress, and I do pay very close attention to what those that are in the field have to say about what is happening in the field and also with the administration. And it has been a great discussion. 
   One would say, we have a Democratic House, and we have a Democratic Senate. Why can't we bring about an end to this war? Well, I will tell you one thing: It can't be without effort. 
   We have talked so much, Madam Speaker, on this floor about Iraq that it is almost like Iraq, Iraq and that other issue, Iraq. And I think the reason why we have talked about it is the fact that we know that we have to bring an end to what we have presently in Iraq right now. And just like my good colleague from Pennsylvania said, it is going to take time. I mean, it is almost like when you are moving out of a neighborhood or out of a house, you just can't do it in a day. It is going to take time for you to pack and do the things that you need to do, and that is even more difficult when you start looking at moving brigades and battalions and also assets. 
   I want to just go through, Madam Speaker, the time line because I want to make sure that Members know that many of us here on this floor have done our due diligence in trying to get ourselves out of this situation. And we know, as it relates to the timeline, and I already talked a little bit about the benchmarks, but in February, there 
   was a vote on this floor, which was a nonbinding resolution, but it sent a very strong message to the President of the United States that we did not stand with him as it relates to the surge technique that he came up with or the escalation of troops, as I call it, in Iraq. The Congress voted in the affirmative philosophy saying that it would actually work. That is one. It happened in February. 
   Also, there was also a resolution that imposed restrictions on the White House to responsibly begin a withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq. That was another vote that took place here on this floor, which then the President vetoed. It passed the House, passed the Senate, and he vetoed it. Then there was a big meeting at the White House of Republicans and the President, enough Republicans to assure that the Congress could not override the President's veto. I think 1 day or 2 days after that, I think, we remember everyone kind of came out in front of the White House, and they said, ``We support the President.'' And I am talking about the Republican conference in the House, mainly House Members, and they said, ``We will not participate in the overriding of the President.'' We know that took place. 
   But still this Democratic House, along with the Speaker and I would even add maybe a couple of Republicans, and I am not sure, so don't quote me on that, voted to override the President's veto. And we failed. We did not have enough votes to do it. Why? It wasn't because Democrats went south on us or they didn't vote to override the President's veto. It happened because we didn't have the votes. We didn't have the bipartisan spirit that we needed to make it happen, and it did not happen. 
   Also, when we look at the force protection and when we look at the things that our men and women have, I would say it was a courageous vote if you voted for the supplemental or you voted against it. It was courageous. And, also, I think it is important for us to understand that many of the issues that we are facing right now and our troops having what they need through the Defense Authorization bill; we imposed the readiness standards on the Armed Forces and making sure that there are standards. We knew. We took this from the DOD rules, but no one wanted to enforce it over there. We voted for being responsible and complete as it relates to the redeployment of our troops and to be able to withdraw our troops again, a vote that received 171 votes. Many of the members of the Out of Iraq Caucus and others spearheaded that vote. And I voted for it. I think it is important for us to understand that that time has now come. So we have to get that process started. 
   One may say, well, why don't we stop? Well, the reason why we had to make sure that the men and women have what they needed, and no one wants anyone in the field not having what they need, is that we do have a political battle going on here and we do have a political impasse that is going on right here between the administration, members of the Republican Party that are in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate, and it is important that we get past that impasse. 
   And that is the reason why, Madam Speaker, when I started out here today in this Special Order, I said it is going to take the bipartisan spirit that we had in the Six in '06 initiatives. It is going to take the bipartisan spirit that we had on the two emergency supplemental amendments. It is going to take that bipartisan spirit for us to get there. 
   Now we have these benchmarks. Now we have reports that are going to have to come before Congress. And I am asking the Members to not look at it as a Republican or a Democrat or I am a real Republican or I am a conservative, a liberal Republican or a moderate or a conservative Democrat or a moderate Democrat. It doesn't matter. You have got to look at it through the eyes of being an American. And I think it is very important that we realize that, come the dates of the benchmark, when the reports have to come before the Congress, which is July 15 and September 15, that action has to be taken, and there will be other votes that will be coming up. There will be votes that will be introduced in September to deauthorize the war. That is not a secret. I will say it right here. It is going to happen. So do your reading. Do your research. Do your soul searching. Talk to your constituents because the bottom line is it is what it is. It is what it is. We are in the middle of a civil war in Iraq. And I don't need to even go back to the whole thing about Iraq originally having nothing to do with 9/11. We all know that. I don't even need to go back to the fact that we were told and the country was told about weapons of mass destruction, and there were no weapons of mass destruction. We all know that. I don't even need to go back to the administration, the Republican leadership at that time, saying we will use the revenues from oil in Iraq to be able to fund the war, and we will be greeted as liberators, and it will be the best thing since apple pie and Chevy trucks. We already know that, and I don't need to go back there and elaborate further on those issues. 
   A lot of folks like to talk about the past. Someone took a vote a couple months ago and has got a problem with that vote. Well, that's fine. You can have a problem with that vote. Let's talk about the votes that are coming up. Let's talk about the benchmarks where one has to report before Congress. Let's also talk about July 15. Let's talk about September 15. Let's talk about what is going to happen when the 3 months of authorization or funding that was given in the emergency supplemental, let's talk about that. Let's talk about looking at a step-by-step process to deauthorize the war in Iraq. Let's talk about those issues. Let's act on those issues. 
   And to those that believe that this war should have ended yesterday and that it has not ended yesterday because there is not enough leadership on the Democratic side to make it happen, well, look at this and listen to this: There wouldn't even be a vote on the floor if it wasn't for the Democratic leadership bringing these issues up. It wouldn't even be in the newspaper. It wouldn't have been considered. There wouldn't have been a number of hearings that have been held in the Rayburn building, the Armed Services Committee and in the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Appropriations Committee.     
   We have already surpassed the hearings on Iraq and all of those committees in this Congression alone, and we're not even past 7 months yet. So, for those that are saying well, what is the House doing and what is the Senate doing? Understand this; in the Senate, it's hard to even get the votes to even get half of the stuff that we've done here in the House, not because the will is not there, it's because we don't have that bipartisan spirit that I spoke of. 
   I think it is important here in this House that we realize, I mean, last night was a perfect example, that we have to work in a bipartisan way if we're going to stand up on behalf of the American people. We may have impasse, but we've got to get beyond that. We've got to make sure that we run this House in a way that the American people can be proud of it. 
   But, you know, it's one thing about procedural motions, Mr. Ryan, my good friend from Ohio, and it's another thing about action. And because so many American lives are in jeopardy in Iraq right now in the middle of a civil war, we don't have enough time to play politics here in Washington. The only thing that we have to do is to allow our troops to have the kind of representation, and their families, here in this House and over in the Senate and in the White House that will eventually reunite those families with their fathers, their mothers, their sisters and their brothers. There is a process. The name of this action of getting out of Iraq is not checkers, it's chess. We have to think about it and it has to be thought out. 
   We're not trying to microwave major decisions. But I can tell you, we don't have enough time for those who want to play ``operation run the clock out'' and see how long can we go until we get that end date. My good friend from Pennsylvania was just here saying that there has to be an end date. On the lease of a car, there is a date that you've got to return the car back in. On a loan, there is a date that the loan has to be paid off. There is a date that it has to be paid. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, I always get into this thing that I don't even like to say what they say because it's just so, you know, it's almost like because they say it, I guess that it's supposed to be true. It is so far from the truth. It's almost like if you get a letter and you say, wow, in this letter it says that the rain goes up from the ground and into the sky, let me go outside and check. I mean, it's so funny. I mean, you know the rain comes down, so why do you have to check their point that it goes up? 
   You know, I came today, Mr. Ryan, to talk about and hopefully provide  some verbal leadership in a bipartisan spirit, because if it was just politics I would say, well, Republicans keep doing what you're doing and we're going to keep doing what we're doing and we will see next November how the people feel about it. You continue to dig the hole. But you know something, Mr. Ryan? The difference between politics and what happened on this floor last night and today is the fact that American lives are at stake. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. It's not politics. This is blood. It's family. You know? And it's very, very important that we all understand our responsibility. 
   I also think, Mr. Ryan, as you go on to speak in a very forceful way, and I am glad that you are doing that, as a member of the Appropriations Committee, that if we are going to get through this process we have to think about the institution of the House of Representatives. 
   Now, I am not a Member of Congress with a conspiracy theory, but the last time we were in control, all of the appropriations bills passed the floor and went through the process, conference and everything, on time. It wasn't continuing resolutions upon continuing resolutions upon 3 more months of a continuing resolution and say, oh, my goodness, we're into the following year. It wasn't that kind of effort. It was running the government like it is supposed to be operated. 
   We came in here this week to complete how many appropriations? Four, five appropriation bills? Four appropriation bills. And now we find ourselves behind schedule. We find ourselves in a posture that we did not plan to be in, and that's running behind, not because the will wasn't there on behalf of the committee, not because the staff didn't do what they were supposed to do to prepare the necessary bills to move to the floor and through committee and through subcommittee, it's because of the procedural moves that some Members of the House, Republicans, use. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I think what is important, Mr. Ryan, is that we look at this thing for what it is, we look at it for what it is, and we let it be known, because you know, it takes us a little while, Mr. Ryan, to kind of get ourselves in the grove of really talking about the situation at hand. 
   The situation is, unfortunately, politics is overruling the governance of this country. It is almost like having someone at the dining room table, Mr. Ryan, that will continue to be disruptive when you are trying to have a decent conversation at the table. 
   Now, let me just tell you, last night about 11 p.m., it was very interesting to hear some of the debate, about, you know, it wasn't about the fact that there was a lack of border agents in this bill or ICE agents or there was a lack of homeland security equipment to follow up on all the 9/11 recommendations. That wasn't the argument. It wasn't an argument that we were being weak on something. The argument was all about, well, you know, somebody told me that this is the procedure and I disagree with the procedure. This is the homeland security bill, and as we started to go through the process of showing that Democrats can govern, it was, well, how can we disrupt that process? 
   Now, there are two things, Mr. Ryan, when you were talking that came to mind. The President has said, as a matter of fact, he hasn't said it, he sent a  letter to the Speaker saying that if you send me a bill that is over the budget that I sent you, then I am going to veto it. That means if we have any great ideas as it relates to doing something about healthcare in this country, the President is saying I don't want to hear it, because it is not in my budget. So shall it be written, so shall it be done. 
   I know the President is a little spoiled. I know he is accustomed to having certain things from the rubber-stamp Congress and all, and this is a new kind of thing for him and the administration. But I think it is important that we pay very, very, very close attention to what is happening as we start to think about democracy. 
   Now, to say you are going to veto something, that means two things. This is speculation, maybe. Our colleagues on the other side of the aisle are saying, let's slow this thing down a little bit, because we get all of these bills passed, which they will pass, and then it goes to the President and he starts to veto these bills. Then they call us on the next day, the President, ``come down to the White House,'' like they did when we passed the emergency supplemental, putting not only dates of redeployment, but also benchmarks, and if they weren't met, then redeployment would start automatically, and then had an end date as relates to making sure we get a majority of our combat troops out of Iraq. He called the Republicans down to the White House and they said, we are not going to override you. Okay. 
   Will they do that, or can they do that, Madam Speaker, when it comes down to education? Will they do that or can they do that when it comes down to homeland security? Will they do that, and when I say ``they,'' the Republicans, stand with the President when it comes down to the largest increase in the VA history? Can they stand with the President to withstand an override or to help him withstand an override? That is the problem. 
   So as we start to look at this issue and as we start to march down the road of responsibility and moving this country in a new direction, that is what the people voted for, and, guess what? Some Republicans were elected on new direction too. Folks wanted a change. They wanted to come to Washington and do what they needed to do. Independent thinkers. 
   It didn't look like that last night. It looked like, you know, well, the leadership has told us this is what we have to do, and if we have to be here and the sun is going to rise, that is fine. We will be here. 
   I voted against rising last night. It is already on the record. It was on the board. I voted against it, because I didn't believe that it was right to allow anyone to do what they were doing to the level that they were doing it. That is fine. 
   The Democratic side, we have done motions to adjourn, done motions to rise. But, guess what? One or two or three times, maybe. But when you start making history, and I haven't checked, maybe I need to check with the Clerk's Office or the Historian of the House, of double digit motions to rise in the middle of the night, that is something that we must question. 
   So, Mr. Ryan, as we start to focus on this issue of the true motivations of what is happening with these appropriations bills, I think the Six in 06 was a little bit too much for the Republican minority to swallow and go home and explain. And I think because there has been a date certain, again, Madam Speaker, it is interesting, we have a date certain to pass these bills off the floor, I think that they don't want to go home the 4th of July weekend and start to explain why they didn't vote for the largest increase in VA history, why they didn't vote for education and healthcare for our children, why they did not vote to protect our environment, why did they did not vote as it relates to the issues of transportation and infrastructure, and why, you know, Mr. Ryan, in closing, I take that from you, sir, why did we continue to stand with the President to withstand an override, because the President has said I am going to veto any bill that comes to me $1 over the budget. 
   Now, here is the President that has sent us into a free-fall as it relates to deficits as far as the eye can see and record-breaking borrowing from foreign nations, higher than it has ever been in the history of the Republic. This is coming from this President. It is coming from the administration and the minority that was in the majority in the last Congress and the Congress before that of borrowing money in a rubber stamp fashion. 
   I just want to say that, because we have to figure out who is the pot calling the kettle black. 
   Mr. Ryan, we are brushing up on the last minute. I am going to yield back, and then you claim the time and we can go from there. You will have time. 
   Madam Speaker, I want to thank the leadership and also the Members for allowing me to serve, and I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Mr. Altmire. I was very pleased to have had the first half of this hour to trick-or-treat with my kids. We had a great time. And my daughter was some very scary--I don't know what her, she couldn't quite explain to me what she was, but I asked what, I mean, What are you? She said, I'm your daughter. So that was like, okay, I won't ask any more questions. My son was a Secret Service Agent, so I was well protected. 
   Let me just say, gentlemen, and I think it's important for the Members to pay very close attention to what we've shared with them, and I'm so glad that we are heading towards safer toys, safer food, safer medicine. Too many times in the news we hear about how loose we are with other countries being able to not have standards and quality control in place, and it ends up affecting everyday Americans, and it disrupts business. We have rumors about things being unsafe, and it's making Americans feel more uneasy about it. And Mr. Altmire, I'm not one to make a, you know, start fire alarms and carrying on and scaring people, but it is pretty scary, the fact that we do have, in some cases, as it relates to those that certify the toys that can come in and out the United States of America as relates to safety and setting requirements for children, it's just one person running that office. And we're the biggest democracy or one of the superpowers of the world, one of the biggest democracies. And I think it's important that we shed light on this. The people count on this Congress to govern. I think the reason why it hasn't happened to this point, of the cozy relationship that the previous  Congress has had with the business community, even when those that are in the business community will fare far better if we were to have the kind of standards and controls as it relates to the importation of toys and food and medicine. I look forward to the debate. 
   It's very unfortunate, and let me just say something, because I know Mr. Murphy said something a little earlier about, you know, now we're moving in this direction, we're hearing some push back from the administration. I'm not a black man with a conspiracy theory, but I will say that there's, I think there's a push out of the administration to see the Democratic Congress not be as successful and not heading in a new direction as the American people voted for. I think some politics has something to do with this. It's very unfortunate, especially when we're looking at this kind of legislation, Mr. Altmire and Mr. Ryan. I think it's important that everyone pay very close attention to the new direction agenda, that this card continues to get more and more on it as it relates to accomplishment. And, Mr. Speaker, it's a bipartisan accomplishment. That's the good thing about it. We have Republicans voting for Democratic bills. They would have voted for it all along if the Republican leadership allowed that legislation to come to the floor. 
   So I think it's important, Members, that we continue to push on, that we continue to encourage our colleagues on the other side of the aisle to join us in accomplishing what the American people wanted us to accomplish. Independent voters, Republican voters, Democratic voters, reform party, what have you, they're looking for results. They're not looking for back-and-forth on my idea is better than yours and nothing ever happens. So I'm just honored to be down on the floor with you Members here. 
   Mr. Ryan, I'm honored always to be here with you, sir. I mean, a very important member of the Appropriations Committee, he had a couple of bills pass off the floor today. It's great. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Mr. Ryan, again, I don't have a conspiracy theory, but, hold that chart. Don't do away with that chart. You can pass it over here. I just want to make a point here. 
   It's interesting that everything seems to have happened in 2000. Look where it was in 2000 and look what happened since then. I wonder who's been in charge of the country starting in 2000. I mean, we're not speaking, I'm not, you know, I'm not trying to say anything. I'm not talking about anybody. I'm just talking about what I'm talking about. And the real issue here is the fact that, I said that, it made as much sense as this chart is making sense right now, but the real issue is that it's been an ongoing issue. A lack of regulation, a lack of, I mean, more freedom as it relates to China doing what it wants, what it would like to do. 
   The TAA bill passed off the floor today to give U.S. workers an opportunity to be retrained, which was very, very important. It was important to the States, and it's important that we bring some sort of balance back to this. It's nothing wrong with a global economy. But it's everything wrong when we allow other countries to have the upper hand on U.S. companies and also U.S. workers, and we have to have the standards in place. 
   But thank you, sir. This wasn't my idea to do this chart. I will not take credit for it. But I just wanted to let you know. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Mr. Ryan. Personally, I'm just kind of glad that the President's criticizing the Congress for doing what we should do. The American people voted for a new direction. We have the fruits of the new direction here in these very new Members of Congress as it relates to the majority makers giving us, empowering those of us that have been here, and they're bringing ideas to the table as it relates to moving in a new direction. If I was the President, I would try to, you know, shut off the light bill over here at the Capitol so that we can stop working so that we can stop uncovering half of what's going on. 
   I mean, Mr. Ryan, you gave one, you have one of the best clips on YouTube saying this is the same administration, and he goes down the line because someone on the floor, I think, last year or the year before last criticized Democrats for questioning the President. And Mr. Ryan said, I'm sorry, but this is the same administration that told us that we had to go to war, weapons of mass destruction. This is the same administration that outed a CIA agent. I mean, this is proven stuff. This is not fiction. This is fact. And I always say, gentlemen and ladies, that when people look back on this period, they're going to see who was actually about the solution and who was actually validating what the administration has been doing. And I think that it's important for us to have this balance. And I think it's important for us because we, the four of us here on this floor right now, we're just like every other Joe and Sue out there. I mean, I was a skycap once upon a time and a State trooper. And you know, I carried luggage, ``Yes, sir,'' ``No, sir.'' I went out and patrolled the highways and byways in the State of Florida and offered myself to be a State Representative.     
   I had a district office right there and went to Tallahassee and did what I had to do. Many of you, the same track as it relates to the State legislature or local elected officials, and we heard this. So now we're the same old Joe that left our local districts. Now we are in Congress, and we are going to ask the questions that the people that we represent will ask us. When I go home and I go to the grocery store, people ask me, What is going on? What do you mean? The President doesn't want it to happen. I said, it's not about the President's standing against children's health care insurance; it's about enough Republicans on the other side of the aisle that are standing with him, and that's what it's about. 
   And so I think it's important, gentlemen, that we look at it from that standpoint. The President is not running for reelection, but there are Members of Congress that are running for reelection. And it should not be a secret that come next November on a Tuesday morning or before as it relates to early voting, absentee voting, people will be able to stand in judgment of the individuals that are validating what the President is saying. 
   So it's really like which side of the ball are you on? Are you on the side of fiction or are you on the side of fact? The fact is about accomplishing things with the Democratic majority and some Republicans joining us in that effort, which I enjoy because we talk about bipartisanship and we are actually doing it, or those that are saying we have to stand in the way because we can't allow the American people to see a Congress that's functioning and questioning the executive branch. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (TRADE AND GLOBALIZATION ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor being here to address this piece of legislation, TAA legislation especially, better known as the Trade and Globalization Assistance Act. It is very, very important to the progress of trade. Also, it is important to many States out there in the Union. I think it is important. I stand to oppose the Republican amendment to this great piece of legislation, because if you adopt their amendment, you're doing less than what we would like to do in the present legislation that is on the floor today. 
   Mr. Speaker, when it comes down to training funds, this bill doubles the current training funding cap from $220 million to $440 million and increases it to $660 million by 2010. This is music to the ears of so many States and especially individuals that have lost their jobs because of trade, because of globalization. 
   So we are here on the floor, especially with me being a member of the Subcommittee on Trade, we are here on the floor to promote not only training, but also assisting those States that are led by Democrat and Republican Governors. So I share with all of my colleagues here on the floor: Do what is right. To say that we can cut things in half or keep things at status quo and still do a good job by allowing individuals that have lost their jobs the assistance that they need as relates to training, as it relates to health care, is just not living in the real world. 
   I encourage the Members to vote against the Republican amendment, oppose it, and support the Trade and Globalization Assistance Act that is brought by the majority. I know that it will be a bipartisan vote in the final analysis. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, it's always good to be on the floor with you. It's like old times, like the 108th Congress, Tim Ryan from Niles, Ohio, and Kendrick Meek from Miami/Liberty City, Florida. 
   The good thing I like about doing the work, we are working not only with new Members that appeared in the last Congress, but we have a level of consistency, even in the majority. Mr. Ryan serves on the very powerful Appropriations Committee. I serve on a  committee called the Ways and Means Committee and Armed Services. These are just committees that have an awful lot of work, and there is a lot to do. 
   But we are here tonight because it's very, very important to the country. I don't have a family member in Iraq. I don't have a family member on their way to Iraq, but I do have constituents that fall within that circle of individuals. 
   As we move this conference report, hopefully, it will go through the conference session that's going on to the President, and that the President doesn't veto this bill. Now, I am going to say this, because one may say politically, you probably wanted the President to do it, because he will go down further in the polls. It's not about polls, as far as I am concerned. It's about accountability to the men and women in harm's way. 
   One may think, well, this has nothing really to do with me. We have a volunteer Armed Forces, and they have signed up and they knew full well, some of them knew full well they would be deployed. We have Reservists signed up. Some of them knew this threat would come one day that they would have to be deployed on a third and fourth tour. You have National Guard men and women that signed up, they were going to be federalized. They had to know they would be federalized at some point to go out and fight on behalf of the country. 
   I just would like to make this point that if one may feel that this has nothing to do with your immediate family, you have to think about what the war in Iraq is doing to our country right now, our financial standing, our financial security. We have an administration in the last Congress, which was the rubber stamp Republican Congress, that passed everything that the Bush White House called for and asked for. Billionaires received tax cuts that they didn't even see coming, but it was a gift to them from the Bush administration. 
   Now, we have borrowed more from foreign nations than we ever borrowed in the history of the Republic. I am from Florida. For those of you who are Members from Gulf States and along the eastern seaboard, this is your issue. Even those from the Midwest or even from the west coast, this is your issue, making sure that we have the benchmarks in place, making sure that we have the accountability in place, when you look at the dollars we are spending, how about the billions of dollars, trillions of dollars we are spending on this war. It's your issue. To the small-town mayor, to the big-city mayor, to the county commissioner, or parish or State 
   legislature, this is your issue. 
   Some folks said, well, in Washington, you all talk about Iraq, Iraq and Iraq again, and then that other issue, Iraq. The reason why on this floor Iraq is uttered every day, almost once an hour, two or three times an hour, is how can we deal with a national health care plan for children? How can we deal with an issue as it relates to helping small businesses? How can we prepare ourselves to take on the wave of veteran affairs that we have to take responsibility for, because we promise our veterans that we will stand with them because they stood with us? 
   How can we do all of those things when we are carrying on the back an Iraqi Government that I must add is looking at going on a 2-month vacation, and the majority members of the Iraqi Parliament have already said they want a timeline on when U.S. troops are going to be out of Iraq. 
   When you hear things about building a wall in Iraq, when you hear the reports over the weekend, Mother's Day weekend, as we were celebrating Mother's Day weekend, including myself, on honoring our mothers, my mother and my wife and all, we have to hear the report about our men and women on patrol in Iraq hit by an improvised explosive device as they patrolled at 4-something in the morning, and an Iraqi response team from our military showed up, 40 minutes after that event, and come to find a burning Humvee, burning, and those that died in that explosion, and three of our men that we are still combing the streets of Iraq for right now, along with coalition forces. 
   These are the very things that we talk about in this bill. We talk about not only the human loss, and, since when I always come to the floor, I just want to say that as of May 15 at 10 a.m., which is the latest, 10 a.m. report, death toll is up 3,393; wounded in action and returned to duty is 13,975; wounded in action and not returned to duty is 11,270. That number continues to go up. 
   It's very, very important. We pay very close attention to this. So when we have the legislation to make sure the troops have what they need, make sure that our veterans have what they need, making sure we respond to the work that was not done in the last two Congresses, we deal with what happened in the Gulf States in Katrina, doing right by them, doing right by their children, that their health insurance is about to expire, the very children of our country. 
   Just today I was on the steps talking to an elementary school, Phyllis Ruth Miller Elementary School, in my district. I was talking to over 100 kids that are elementary kids and some of their teachers. They were asking about Iraq, and they were asking about the war. They were concerned, and one of the young men asked, well, Congressman, do you believe when I get of the age that, you know, I would love to be a member, I would love to be a soldier, a member of the Army, do you think I will be deployed to Iraq? 
   I had to have a discussion with him about how we are trying to work in a diplomatic way. We want a surge in diplomacy. We want a surge as it relates to an escalation and other countries taking part in what we are doing. 
   If it's about, you know, dropping bombs and all of that, we can do that better than anyone else on the face of the Earth. But when you start putting our men and women into responsibilities when a country should take responsibilities for themselves, then we are talking about another thing. 
   I think it's also important for us to note that the bouncing ball as it relates to what the President says and what he means are two different things. One minute we listen to the commanders in the field. The next minute we know what's good for the commanders. One minute we say that if the Iraqi Government, and I just happened, I asked staff to pull this up, when the President was asked, and he said, But asked if, as a matter of principle, the United States would pull out of Iraq at the request of a new (Iraqi) Government,'' he said, this is a question that was posed to him, `` Absolutely. This is a sovereign government.'' 
   The elected Parliament, a majority of the elected Parliament have said they want a timeline. Now, in Congress we are saying we want a timeline, and we want benchmarks. The President is saying, I am not going to allow you to do it. We have a Republican minority saying we are standing next to the President. Then we had 11 Members of the Republican side go talk to the President and say, hey, you know something, we can only stand in for so long. 
   Now, if I was thinking in political terms and thinking about serving on the committees I am serving on and staying in the majority and being a part of leadership meetings and so on and so on, I would say, fine. Let the Republican minority stick with the President. Let the President, let's just sit back, let's be quiet. Let's just let the President talk because as far as I am concerned politically, the gain is going to be to Democrats in Washington, D.C. 
   But if it wasn't war, if it wasn't the future of our children and our children's children, if it wasn't the amount of debt that has been accumulated with two wars going on and tax cuts that no one asked for, and the super, super wealthy are getting tax cuts, subsidies, the oil companies that Mr. Ryan tried to address in the first wave of alternative energy and alternative fuel. 
   I am a little glad to see the President talk about an energy plan yesterday, and take our dependency off of foreign oil or energy and focus on America. I am so glad that the President has caught up with the American people and the Democratic Congress and moving in that direction. We have already done that. 
   So the real issue here is if we just pay attention to what people are saying, I think that we can figure out why they are doing what they are doing. The President, yes, he is going to be President, his term will be up in 2008. We want to support the Commander in Chief as far as we can.  
   But as a democracy, as a Congress, we owe it to the people of the United States of America to continue to get good and accurate information out to them and to make sure that every Member of Congress knows exactly what he or she is voting on or not voting on. 
   You heard me say before, it's important that Members of the Congress on both sides of the aisle, that we go see the wizard, that we get a little leadership, get a little courage, okay? Go to the President and say, hey, listen, this is the way it's going to be. This is not going away. The American people are on the side of what's good for America. They are not necessarily saying, you know, we love Democrats or we love Republicans. They just want good government, and good government is making sure we have responsibilities. 
   Mayors come and speak with me. I had a city commissioner come talk with me today. She was sharing with me about, you know, all of the things that she has to go through to get a Federal grant.     
   Well, I don't hear the Iraqi Government talking about all the things and the loopholes and accountability measures they have to go through to get the taxpayer dollar. And I think it's important that we pay very, very close attention to that as we move through. 
   Let me just speak one more second, Mr. Ryan, not one more second, but several seconds. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, sir. 
   I mentioned earlier, I'm from Florida. June 1 is a very important date to those of us that are in Hurricane Alley. June 1 is the beginning of hurricane season. Hurricane season will be, this hurricane season has been predicted, Mr. Speaker, to be one of the most active seasons in recent time. And Florida is probably the most prepared State as it relates to response because we've gone through it so much. And the reason why we're able to respond to a number of natural disasters and hurricanes, which we have a number of wild fires that are going on right now in Florida, is that we have one of the best National Guard units on the face of the Earth, period. But 53 percent of the diesel or used equipment that they had to respond to storms, because they're the first responders, they're already staging outside of the hurricane zone to respond as first responders. They don't even have the equipment that they need to respond. 
   In Kansas, Mr. Ryan, the Governor of Kansas said, you know, our emergency management plan called for a response from the National Guard. Those that are still left in the State of Kansas, but, they're having to use their personal vehicles. They're having to do other things to make up for the equipment that's jammed with sand over in Iraq. 
   We must have accountability now. We must have benchmarks now. It's almost saying to school age children that it's okay, you can go to school, we won't grade you on anything. There'll never be a test. You just, you know, do your time and everything will work out. 
   Everything that we strive for to be successful in, even in business or in government, you have to have benchmarks. You have to have accountability. And what the President and some of the Members of the minority side of the aisle, some of them, not all of them, I must add because I know that there are a number of my Republican colleagues that are saying we're headed down the right track and they have voted in the affirmative, in a bipartisan vote to send that message to the White House. 
   And what the President hasn't come to grips with, including some members of his Cabinet, that this is a democracy, and guess what, the whole cake and ice cream thing, you write it, we just follow you kind of thing is over. It's over. The people of America voted for accountability. They voted for standards. They voted for transparency, and they're going to get it as long as we have the majority here in this Congress to give the American people what they ask for. That's what their vote is all about. 
   I think it's also important for us to realize that when you look at these States, and this is just Florida, the National Guard was down 500 Humvees, 600 trucks, short 4,000 pair of night vision goggles, and needed 30 more wreckers. This is from Colonel Ron Title, who is brass in our Florida National Guard. He's not talking on behalf of the Democratic Party or Republican Party. Here's a man that said, I'm going to serve in the Florida National Guard, and I'm just talking about preparedness. I'm talking about our ability to be able to respond to a natural disaster. 
   What are we going to do, turn around and call Georgia? I'm pretty sure Georgia has some of the same issues. 
   Turn around and call Alabama? Alabama, last I checked, there are a lot of National Guard men and women there, and I guarantee you their equipment, if not more in Iraq, they don't have the ability to come to Florida. 
   And so when you look at these other States and the response of the National Guard, then you have to get active duty troops involved and you have to fly things in and carry on. If we had accountability in place, and we had proper planning in place, that's what this bill calls for. 
   Mr. Ryan, this is the last money for Iraq and Afghanistan that will not go through the regular budget process because, Mr. Speaker, when that happens, accountability is paramount. Transparency hearings, everything is accounted for. Not just giving a checkbook to someone in Iraq and say, well, in the early days, giving them cash and just say go to work. That's not good accounting practices and should not be encouraged. 
   And so the old saying, if we know better, we'll do better, well, you know, by now, 5 years in the war, we should all know better. And we're trying to do better. 
   We have a majority in place right now, Mr. Ryan and Members, that are willing to do better, have the will and the desire to do it. The good thing that I like about, I was listening to what you were saying before I was recognized. Mr. Ryan, I remember the days that we were on the floor and we used to talk about if we had the opportunity, this is what we'll do. We'll make sure that veterans have what they need to have when they return back, and those that have served in past wars, that we honor their commitment by honoring them, making sure that they have a VA health care system they can be proud of. 
   We said that we would work to make sure that children have health care in this country, and we've already taken action on that. 
   We said that we would implement the 9/11 Commission recommendations. We have already done that. Waiting on the President's signature. 
   We said that we would put rules in place within the House rules to bring about ethics and have an active ethics committee, which has already happened, Mr. Speaker. It's not something that we said, well, if we get around to it. It's already happened. 
   So when we talk about the functions of good government, those principles are already in place. And so now we just need the help of the President of the United States to work with the Congress and not dictate to the Congress about what we should be doing, how we should be doing it. He's had 5 years. He's had 5 years to say, this is the way it's going to be. So shall it be written, so shall it be done. 
   And I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, and being a Member of the past two Congresses, serving, Mr. Ryan and I served on the Armed Services Committee. We don't want to leave our men and women without equipment and the things that they need. And supplementals in the past, I didn't like a lot of the language in it, but I voted for it for the greater good, for the greater good. 
   And we counted on the Defense Department to be accountable with the money. We counted on all of the things that we're being told about the equipment being on the ground when the men and women get there. Now we find out that some of that was not true, a lot of that was not true. And there's been so many things that have been told and so many apologies that have been sent out in press releases. 
   Those days are over. We must have accountability in place. So when the President, if the President follows through on his threat, Mr. Ryan, to veto it, I'm glad that you talked about the things that he will veto; that 
   he's going to deny the men and women in harm's way. He's going to deny children to have health care. He's going to  deny veterans from getting the veterans services that they deserve, and he's going to deny us being able to hold our head up. 
   But I'm going to hold my head up because I'm doing my part and I'm doing my part right now on Memorial Day when we commemorate those that paid the ultimate sacrifice. And vetoing the largest increase in the VA history. 
   I'm just talking about a few things, leave alone the accountability measures at the Department of Defense. They already had the rules in place. They just weren't honoring those rules. We put it in the supplemental, this emergency supplemental. So now, within this law and within the dollars that will be flowing into the field and throughout America, they're going to have accountability measures in it. 
   So I'm not talking about what the Republican Congress did not do or what they call themselves doing, or what the President did not do or called himself doing. I'm just talking about what we're doing now and the opportunity that's presented before us. And I'm so happy, Mr. Ryan, that we are moving in that direction. I yield back to you, sir. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, I don't remember the last story of a state that continued to receive money, have not been accountable to Federal dollars, I mean, haven't been accountable in spending those Federal dollars. News report comes out that it actually took place, and then we turn around and say, oh, well, we know you didn't spend the last billions of dollars we gave you. We're going to give you some more. As a matter of fact, we're going to come down and help you spend this money, and we're going to come down and be a part of this lack of accountability by your government. And then we're going to reward you with another emergency supplemental that has no strings attached. 
   You can't reward bad behavior or lack thereof. You cannot say, well, it's okay, Governor. It's okay, mayor. It's okay, county commission or city commission. If you're not accountable with the dollars, we're going to continue to send it to you. 
   I don't know a police department that received Federal assistance from FEMA, okay, who did not do, did not follow the plan of hiring and training and making sure that they can patrol their own streets, and we sent Federal law enforcement individuals down there to do the everyday calls for service. That doesn't happen in America. It should not happen in Iraq as long as our taxpayer dollars are being spent, and dollars that we've borrowed, Mr. Ryan, I must add, from foreign nations. 
   This country is in a financial situation as it relates to borrowing from foreign nations unlike any other time in the history of the Republic. So as we move in this majority body here to correct those issues, this is a wonderful opportunity for this government to correct itself on the legislative branch and the executive branch, to do the right thing, to be accountable for the taxpayer dollars, and, Mr. Ryan, the dollars that we've borrowed from other countries, that we have to figure out how we're going to pay them back, and at the same time continue to maintain some sort of financial standing within the world. 
   Mr. Ryan, it's always a pleasure, sir, coming to the floor and working with you and other members of the 30-something Working Group. I know we'll be back a couple of other times this week before we finish on Friday. 
   But we have to stay the course. I'm going to use one of the administration's words; stay the course on behalf of those who stood for us to be able to talk here in this air conditioned Chamber, saluting one flag. We have to stand up for those who have sent us here to represent them. And there are people who can vote. There are people who cannot vote. They're Republican. They're Democrats. They're independents. The individuals that are watching what happens now, because as we look back 20 years from now, folks are going to ask, who stood up? Who stood up for them? Who stood up for their children? Who stood up for their grandchildren? 
   It's not about my family. It's about all of our families. If you want to talk about family values, then let's start doing things on behalf of the American people, and let's make sure that future generations have a better opportunity than we have. 
   When that kid asked me on the steps of the Capitol, Mr. Congressman, I want to join the Army; I want to be a soldier. Am I going to war? That answer shouldn't have been diplomacy and all that. It should have been, we're doing our job and working with the international community and keeping America safe and, yes, if you want to go into the Army, you should go into the Army and serve our country like so many others have done. 
   But it's a sad commentary when we're here debating the obvious of what we have to do. Accountability with the taxpayer dollars and accountability to those who woke up hearing mortar, hearing improvised explosive devices going off, looking at these vehicles towed in from the streets of Baghdad because we're doing the job that the Iraqi Government should be doing. And we have to stay the course, and making sure that we stand up for those that don't have the opportunity to walk through this door and put their voting card in these machines and vote on behalf of their future and their families.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THIRTY-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to address the House. As you know, the working group, we come to the floor to share good information with the Members and make sure that we are all informed on what is happening in this new-direction Congress. Also, for us to understand our future, we have to go into our past. We try not to dwell on that too much, but when there are examples of leadership and courage, we want to identify and illuminate the leadership that many, that the majority of the Members of the House have already taken. 
   Today's vote with passing this budget resolution by the House is a perfect example of our priorities as we move through the process. As you know, there will come a time when the Senate and the House will get together in conference and we will send our budget to the President, and hopefully we can all come to common ground on behalf of not only domestic priorities, but also international priorities and how we are seen in the world. 
   This is a Friday for us here in Congress because this is now the close of legislative business, and we are going to be off for the next 2 weeks from Washington, DC. But we will be back in our districts working very hard, talking with our constituents. 
   Many Members will take this opportunity to share with the members of their community and their district the accomplishments that they have been able to make in the last 2 weeks, and they have been quite historical. I think with the emergency supplemental, even going back to that, since that is a week old and something we have already voted in the affirmative in a bipartisan way, I think that is a testimonial to what this 110th Congress is going to be about and what we continue to work very hard in making sure that the American people have a chance to see exactly how hard we have been working. 
   I think I am going to have to get my chart that talks about the days we have worked, the resolutions we have passed, the suspension bills we passed compared to previous Congresses. I think it is important when people look at their Members of Congress and they say, well, are you actually working on my behalf. I am hearing from the 109th Congress that there were times that you spent more time out of Washington than you spent in Washington. And many of our Members are hungry to see their constituents because we have been here the majority of the weeks working on a 5-day workweek.     
   Out of that 5-day work week, there has been a lot that has been accomplished. 
   So I am going to talk about not only the resolution, but I am going to also talk about the effort of bipartisan votes that have taken place here on the floor and on the accomplishments of being here in Washington, DC, and having hearings. I think that is important, and I think that the American people need to be fully aware. 
   We talk about Iraq in the same light that we talk about the work. On the 29th, which is today, the total deaths in Iraq, 3,243. That's as of 10 a.m. That's 10 a.m. numbers. Wounded, returned back to duty, 13,473. That number continues to change, Mr. Speaker. And wounded not returning back to duty is 10,841. 
   Why do I give those numbers out? I give those numbers out to make sure that all of the Members understand that this work is very, very serious. 
   This number is changing because just today in the Armed Services Committee we had a hearing on Guantanamo that has a connection to the efforts against terrorism throughout the world. But oversight accountability hearings on Iraq are at 104. That is the last documented number I know. When we get back from the break, this calendar will be updated. 
   Also, we had issues of cleaning up Washington, DC, and making sure that  America is safer; hearings that we've had making sure the American dream is possible for everyone. We have had a number, Mr. Speaker, of bipartisan votes here on this floor that really meant a lot to Americans. 
   When we started looking at the issue of minimum wage, when you have 82 Republicans voting under the ``New Direction Congress'', under a Democratic-controlled Congress voting for an increase in minimum wage, that means that there has been a will and a desire to do so over the years, but they haven't had the opportunity to do it, and it took leadership to move in that direction. Also, making college more affordable. When you look at votes that have taken place, 124 Republicans have joined Democrats in voting in the affirmative as a unit, and I think that is very, very important. 
   When we start looking at the Iraq resolution, we have to look at the courage and the insight and the vision of this ``New Direction Congress'' in allowing Members of this Congress to vote on something that will be beneficial to their constituents but also meets emergency needs of the country and Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   I think it is very, very important that we understand that when we go on break there is going to be a lot said because we won't be here in Washington, we won't have the opportunity to come to the floor. Of course, the administration will have 2 weeks of an opportunity to speak from a podium without a response, an official response, outside of Members sending press releases out. But when you look at this resolution, it makes sure that, in dealing with the veterans issues, we have in place making our commitment as it relates to defending the homeland. 
   I used to be on the Homeland Security Committee, and we started talking about making sure that the levees are in place and that we never see another Katrina in our lifetime, not under our watch; and holding our commitment to the men and women in the gulf coast. I think that is very, very important, and something that we have to continue to work on. 
   Another piece of legislation we passed within the last 2 weeks is the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act, a response not only to the scandal at Walter Reed but also to make sure we can ensure the troops and veterans that they will receive quality care. This is a bipartisan piece of legislation, something that we should be very proud of and the American people should be proud of. We will continue to move in that direction of being aggressive on these issues. 
   When you deal with the issue of U.S. troop readiness, I met with the command sergeant major of the Army Reserves just today, Mr. Speaker, in my office. He talked about the number of issues that are still not being addressed on behalf of reservists. But I can tell you that the refreshing part of that conversation was that I could go to the Wounded Warriors Assistance Act of 2007 to say that help is on the way. I was able to point to the concurrent resolution that we passed, our first action in January, that we put $3.6 billion into veterans health care so that when he goes out in the field to speak to the soldiers, he can say a new day is coming. 
   I talked about the budget resolution prior to this budget resolution passing here on the floor, the largest increase and investment in veterans assistance, health care assistance in the history of the VA. I was able to talk to him under those terms and under that flag of accountability, oversight and making sure that we are accountable to the men and women that serve our country. I can tell you that it was received with great appreciation from him. 
   I think it is important that as we start looking at the action of growing the economy that is in this budget that it is going to be very, very helpful to us all, making sure that our economy is moving in the right direction and will be here for all levels of economic classes. 
   We start looking at children that are being assisted through this budget. As we continue to march through this process, as you know, there will be a House and Senate conference, there will be Members pulling in different directions to make sure that the priorities are met, but when it is all said and done, children are being protected. I know the Speaker will be having a summit on children that is coming up pretty soon that will allow us to even further look into the needs of children in the United States of America. 
   What does this mean to the economy, Mr. Speaker? It means an awful lot. It means if you have healthy children you have fewer days of parents having to take off work and take them to the doctor, or to stay home to try to, what I call, drugstore medication, going to see what they can buy over the counter to help their children rebound from whatever health ailment that they may have. 
   With this budget that we passed, we are making sure that every child in the United States of America has an opportunity at universal health care, something that is very, very important. I come from a State where over 12 percent of the kids are without health care. I think it is very, very important that we focus and stand behind our commitment to America's children in making sure that we provide the funding to make sure they all have universal health care. It is going to be good for our economy, it is going to be more days that children will be in school. We will have healthier children, we will have healthier families, and we will have a healthier economy in our society. I think it is important that we move in that direction. 
   When we look at the State Child Health Insurance Plan that we have here, we call SCHIP, you look at the investment of what we have just made on this vote here on the floor. In 2008 to 2012, you will see in the billions of dollars that the President's budget is a $2 billion increase up until 2012. But then, if you look over a little further, you look at the budget resolution we just passed, and that is with a $50 billion increase as we move into 2012. 
   So we have already laid out that we have the will and the desire to do so and that we are ready to do it; and we will be finding the necessary resources to do it without going into deficit spending. That is something that we have passed in the pay-as-you-go. If you are going to propose it and you are going to pass it, you are going to definitely have to show how we are going to pay for it. 
   I think it is also important, as we look at the agenda, and we have a number of third-party validators that have endorsed this budget. We even have committees outside of the budget. But we have a Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, a panel created to inform Congress and the public on energy independence, climate change as well as developing policies and initiatives to assure progress made to reduce dependency on foreign oil. This is so very, very important, Mr. Speaker. Not only do we have this select committee out there, in this budget it reflects our values in investing in the Midwest versus the Middle East. It is a lot cheaper, believe me. 
   And those numbers that I read out at the beginning of how many men and women will never come home to their loved ones, how many of our men and women that won't be able to return back to battle, I think it's important for us to understand that we not only have to conserve but at the same time make sure that we put our money where our mouths are when it comes down to protecting our Earth, because we only have one. 
   I think it is also important, Mr. Speaker, just for us to step back for a moment and just reflect on what not only happened just a few minutes ago but what happened last Friday. I continue to come back to that since the President is saying that he wants to veto the emergency supplemental. I think it's important that we just look at that just a moment. 
   I was on the floor last night, and Mr. Ryan was here. We had an opportunity to talk about what the President really meant when he said that he wanted to veto the emergency supplemental for our men and women in uniform. I couldn't help but reflect on the President's history on vetoes, and I started looking. I would ask my staff, and then I started just kind of doing a personal evaluation. Have I ever heard the President say he is going to veto something? 
   In 6 years of him being President, since I have been in Congress, now going on 5 years, I have never heard the President say I am going to veto something. I wonder why. 
   Well, we just left the 109th and the 108th Congress, which was better  known as the ``rubber stamp Congress.'' The President sends it to the Hill, it will be followed to the T, and that it will be ``so shall it be written, so shall it be done.'' Members will make other Members vote for the President's priorities. The majority was on the Republican side. And in November, the American people said, I no longer want that kind of democracy. I no longer want the President's original thoughts to be carried out by the Congress without review. 
   We have another chart, and I want to make sure that we get that chart, the one that talks about how many bills we've passed. I had it here last night. It may be in the back or something, if staff can grab it for me. It was from the Clerk's office. It talked about the days that we've worked to this point and the bills that we've passed until this point, because I think it will be very, very revealing. 
   The Congress last session did very little. And when I say very little, they had very few hearings on many of the issues that are before the Congress. We are taking a lot of time, not only Members of Congress but also the staff here in the House of Representatives on both sides of the aisle, because the days have been accelerated and the fact that we are actually having two or three committee meetings in a given day, leave alone subcommittees. And I think it is important, if we are going to have an active and functional and informed government, that we have to go through the steps and making sure that we are making sound decisions. That's okay when you are looking for others to tell you what you should be doing. 
   This is my new favorite chart, Mr. Speaker, because, as you know, in the Working Group, we love third-party validators; and we love to give accurate information out. I personally love to give accurate information out. I don't ever come to the floor and share with staff or a friend, ``How can I go to the floor and give inaccurate information? Please help me do that.'' 
   Some of the debate that took place here on the budget, I was really shocked by the fact that some Members would come to the floor and say something that we all know is not true. But this is true. This comes from the Clerk of the House. This is the Record. Bipartisan office, it's the Record. I love everyone in the office, and I appreciate the work that they do. 
   But this is the 107th Congress, the 108th Congress, the 109th Congress, and this is the 110th Congress. This was known as the ``do-nothing Congress.'' That was what the media called it. And the ``New Direction Democratic Congress'', that's what we call it. It has nothing to do with the third-party validator. 
   When you look at roll call votes to this date, March, 2005, during this month, as we close out this month, there were only 90 roll call votes that were taken. As we close out this month, there will be 189 roll call votes that were taken under this Congress, under this working, very functional, very informed Congress. Because the fact is, Mr. Speaker, that we have taken the time to go to a committee, to have staff research and to have witnesses come to us and share with us where we're going wrong and what we're doing right, and that is important.     
   We look at suspension bills, another form of bills that we vote on, 26 in the 109th Republican-controlled Congress, 72 that we voted on Democratic-controlled Congress. And then it goes on and on and on. And I think it is important even days in session, 26 compared to last year under the Republican-controlled Congress, 48 under the Democratic-controlled Congress. 
   Why is this important? We have two wars going on. We have children without health care. We have veterans that are waiting 6, 7 months to be able to see a specialist at a VA. We have VA clinics that are open only once or twice a month. 
   Why is this important? This is important because we have small businessmen and women in America trying to find a Congress that is going to stand on their behalf as it relates to free trade. And I believe that trade is good, but not when it is at the cost of U.S. jobs and the outcome measures of building our economy are based on hypotheticals. 
   It is important for us to be here, Members, to understand these issues. So as I speak on the importance of what we have done and what the President is talking about in vetoing the emergency supplemental bill and saying that, oh, well, it is those folks in Congress that are holding it up, no, we have done our work. You will have the bill on your desk, and I urge you not to veto it on behalf of the people that are counting on us to stand for them. 
   It is not us and them; it is all of us. We are all Americans. And if there are some things in the emergency supplemental that the President disagrees with, then that is fine. State those disagreements, but don't hold up the necessary resources from the men and women that are in the forward area, especially in Afghanistan. 
   If this was a political conversation, I would say, Mr. President, veto it. You have to lie in that bed; and those that voted against the emergency supplemental would have to lie in that bed, too. But I would be speaking as some sort of hard-core partisan, which I am not. I am a Member of the U.S. Congress, and I think it is important that we look at it, Americans look at it the same way. It is not an issue of if you are a Republican or an Independent saying, well, the Democrats. No, no. The people that will suffer the most by the President saying that he is going to veto are going to be the men and women in uniform, the veterans that have been waiting on accountability out of this Congress and it is at an emergency level. 
   Those Americans that have been waiting because of natural disaster, they are an emergency state. They are ready for their economy to kick in so that they can start providing for their families. It is going to be those individuals that are going to suffer. So let's take the personalities out of it. You have to be for the emergencies that are facing this country. 
   Emergency supplemental is very, very important to this country and should not be allowed to be used as a political football. So I would ask for the President to reconsider his original thoughts vetoing the emergency supplemental. 
   I think soon that there is going to be a discussion, Mr. Speaker, as it relates to the budget resolution we just passed. There will be threats and rumors of threats about what the President won't stand for. But there has to be a paradigm shift, because the American people have made a paradigm shift in November. You had Republicans and Independents voting for Democrats because they wanted accountability, they wanted oversight, they wanted to move in a new direction, and they wanted to make sure that they had a government that was going to balance with the present administration. But apparently that message has not gotten to the White House yet. 
   And I am so glad that the leader of the Senate and also the Speaker of the House sent the President a letter saying, you know, it is not personal, let's just calm down and let's work together in making sure that the men and women of our Armed Forces and the veterans, I have the letter right here. This letter is from Senator Reid and also Speaker Pelosi. And it talks about both House and Senate bills contain important provisions rejecting the present policy that has been pursued for more than 4 years. 
   Now, let's just say this very quick. And this is the closing of this letter because we can go on from the beginning. But we entered this into the Record last night and there is no need to do it today, but I think it is important that everyone understand where we are headed and where we have been. 
   We know the past 4 years that there has been, not one, two escalation levels of U.S. troops in Iraq, and we know a third one just took place recently, an escalation in troops. And every last escalation has shown the same, very little as it relates to making sure that Iraq is a safer place to be. And it is still a very dangerous place. The President is asking for more time. But usually when you have three strikes, you are usually out. 
   But as we start looking at this, it is important that the Members pay very close attention to this and the American people. And it goes furthermore to say that the provisions are based on statements by General Petraeus and  other senior military leaders that there is no military solution in Iraq. No military solution in Iraq. So to say that 140-plus thousand troops, 200,000 troops, we are going to get to the bottom of this; the more, the more the better, that is not necessarily what the military commanders have said. 
   What did the Iraq Study Group say? They said that we have to find a diplomatic solution and that we have to find some sort of redeployment plan of U.S. troops. Great Britain has already said that they are pulling out. Others of the coalition of the willing, that I must add you would assume that Great Britain would be the second largest coalition in Iraq right now. 
   No, it is actually U.S. contractors that is almost being led by Halliburton who said that they are going to move their headquarters overseas to Dubai. The U.S. taxpayer dollars are all intertwined in the Halliburton Corporation, and there are several investigations on Halliburton as it relates to their accountability of making sure that they billed the American taxpayers appropriately. 
   This goes on to say that their collective judgment leads to the conclusion that U.S. forces should not try to contain a civil war, but rather a bipartisan majority in the House and Senate believe strongly that the U.S. mission should be transitioned to a counterterrorism force protection, and training and equipping the Iraqi security forces and phased redeployment of U.S. troops should commence. 
   That is what this letter is saying, and that is what we must do. 
   And I think it is very, very important that this message is loud and clear. And I don't think that the will or the desire of the majority of the Members of the House and the will and the desire of the majority in the Senate will change on this issue, because polls have indicated, not only the poll that was taken in January because that was all about Iraq and some other issues and accountability and ethics, but the poll that was just taken over the weekend of how the American people felt about the action of this Congress, they are with us. They are saying, what took you so long? Well, the thing that took us so long was not necessarily this Congress. 
   It was the rubber-stamp Congress. 
   So someone, please, I implore you and beg you, call the White House and tell the President, just because you say it, doesn't necessarily mean the American people are going to follow you. 
   I was watching the President on the television just the other day, the press conference after the Senate took its action, and you would have assumed that something really bad happened. The President was saying, You know, I am going to veto it. He kept saying this, And they are holding money. Do you think the American people are going to believe for one minute when you have an emergency supplemental with accountability measures in it, of following what? The Department of Defense deployment rules and regs of men and women when they circulate out of theater. You have bureaucrats right now in the Pentagon that as soon as enlisted Reservists and in some instances National Guard return back home, they are returned back home within 150 days and going back into theater for another 12 or 15 months if they are a soldier, 7 to 10 months if they are a marine. If they are in the Air Force, it may go from 3 to 4 to 5, or maybe up to a year, not because someone believes that that is the case. And here is the President on the front page trying to play the blame game and point fingers. That is not what this is about. 
   And the reason why I am speaking in a very firm voice on this issue is that this is not politics. This is saying, let's work together, let's make sure that this is not about a stare-down, who is going to flinch first. It is not about flinching, it is not about who tucked their tail under their legs and who won. Because we all win when we give the men and women what they have to do. 
   So this has accountability measures in it saying that troops will not be deployed outside of the Department of Defense's own rules and regulations. Obviously they have been bending those rules. How do you say to a soldier or a marine, an airman or a sailor that we are going to bend the rules when it works to the benefit of the Pentagon or the administration, but when it comes down to what you are supposed to do we are not bending anything? We are going to hold you to the nine of what you are supposed to do. That is not American. That is not fair. 
   So this Congress has stood up on behalf of those individuals and said that we are going to hold not only the Department of Defense's feet to the fire, but also the administration's feet to the fire on this issue in law in this emergency supplemental. If you are going to spend the money, these are the rules you are going to live by. 
   It also goes on and talks about the whole issue of readiness, making sure that our men and women have what they need when they go into theater. Well, some may say, well, Congressman, why are you talking about readiness? We are not sending anyone over there unprepared. The real issue is there is training that is involved that needs to happen. 
   Again, I told you that I met with the sergeant major, the highest enlisted man or woman in the Army Reserve just this morning, and he was sharing with me the level of training that his men and women in the Reserve units have not received because of the fast rotation and the lack of emphasis on training and readiness. This is fresh information. This is not fresh. We already knew this, but he just validated it even more by just coming and saying this is an issue. 
   We just passed this budget. So if the President doesn't want to move in a new direction in making sure that our men and women have what they need and they are trained, that is something that we need to talk to him about. We need to talk to him about it. We don't need to say you are wrong or do it, we want to watch, we want to see you do it; because if you do it, it is going to cost you politically. We are far beyond politics right now. 
   It goes further into increasing the VA and assisting those men and women that are coming back. And it also looks at, states, that kids, the children, we reflect in our budget what we want to do. But with children, the money will run out for children's health care in certain States here in this country if this emergency supplemental doesn't go through. And I think it will happen prior to the next budget act when the bill is up. 
   I know Mr. Ryan came down and he was getting ready to join me, and I don't want to move into the segment that he shared with me that he wanted to share with you. But as we start continuing to look at the present and hopefully moving into the future, I want to make sure that the Members know exactly why this budget was very, very important. The budget that we passed doesn't raise any taxes whatsoever, and I know Mr. Ryan is going to talk about that and I am not going to take his thunder. 
   But as we start to look at the interest payments on the debt, of what has happened in the past and where we have to have the paradigm shift and where this budget resolution starts to move the numbers and the reality of what has happened in the past, what was the reality in the 109th and 108th Congress. 
   Here is the interest that is paid on the debt right here, in the billions. And this is what Congress invested in education. Interest, education.     
   Next to that investment in veterans in the billions, the very low billion, under a hundred billion versus the debt. 
   Homeland security. You have a lot of chest beating going on down here on the floor about homeland security, protecting the homeland. That is one of those things that comes in behind ``I love the troops.'' Protect the homeland. Previous Congresses and previous budget chairmen and committees did not set their priorities there, but they made good speeches. 
   Look down here, homeland security, that is the investment that is made in homeland security versus paying down the debt. Why is this chart important? It is important because our priorities are now changing to no deficit spending, pay as we go. That is going to be painful. 
   Mr. Speaker, I already feel the pain. It is going to be painful. But if we are going to make sure that we do what we are supposed to do as Members of Congress and we hold to our word as Members of Congress, I am talking about all  Members of Congress, we will pay. Because the foreign debt that this administration and the Republican rubber-stamp Congress previous to this Congress put on the backs of this country will have other countries looking at us in a different light. 
   Mr. Ryan, I probably borrowed $20 from you every now and then. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THIRTY-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Let's say I was to say hypothetically, Mr. Ryan, can I borrow $100? 
   Sure, Kendrick. 
   And I will pay you on Friday, payday, at the end of the month. And I see you 2 weeks after that payday and I come up to you. You are thinking, hold it, you owe me money when you see me next. You're not thinking about what I want to talk about. 
   Where is my chart on foreign debt held? We love charts here. I can tell you, on the foreign debt held, there are countries like Japan, China, OPEC countries, Mr. Speaker, that we borrow money from. Iran is in that number. So how are we going to be viewed on the world stage and how do we rebound from that? 
   Here is my chart. We keep the chart people in business. 
   China, Japan, leading the pack there. The U.K., the Caribbean, OPEC countries that include Iraq, Iran, Venezuela. You look at Korea, Hong Kong and Germany. 
   Again, Mr. Ryan, how do we look these countries in the eyes and say we want you to do this a certain way when we owe them money? How do we get out of that? We get out of it by passing this budget resolution that we passed today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THIRTY-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Here's the issue. The President is now saying, I am going to veto the emergency supplemental bill for Iraq and Afghanistan and for our veterans. I'm going to veto it. 
   That is something he has never said before, Mr. Speaker. All the while all of this debt was being built up on the future generations of Americans and our children and grandchildren that are children of Republicans and Democrats and Independents and those who are thinking about voting, the President never once said I am going to veto it. 
   As a matter of fact, every bill that was passed in the rubber-stamp Congress, the President was saying, I'll sign it. I am going to sign that bill. Record spending, I am going to sign that one. 
   Mr. President, that bill will run the debt up. We will have to borrow money from foreign nations, some that we have issues with. I'm going to sign it. 
   As a matter of fact, he signed so many bills, can I have another pen? I ran out of ink. 
   Now to say I am going to veto something that has accountability measures in it, the problem is not additional dollars for the emergency needs of Americans, the problem is the fact that the Congress has said, after 4, now 5 years in Iraq, that we are no longer going to be the say-nothing, hear-nothing, do-nothing Congress, that we are going to have a say in it, and we are sitting here and federalized by the people of the United States of America to make sure that they have a voice and we have accountability. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THIRTY-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, I am glad you are here to make that point, because we talked about it earlier. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it is important for us to understand exactly, and I can see if it was a different President, Mr. Ryan. I can see if the administration has changed from the last Congress to this one. But it is the same President that celebrated a Congress that was willing to follow through his original thoughts. 
   During our watch on the 109th Congress and the 108th Congress, the President signed bills with billions of dollars in special interest tax breaks and subsidies to big oil, to a number of other high-level, connected, plugged-in, I-know-them kind of folks, and direct access to the Capitol and direct access to the White House, signed a bill and didn't even blink an eye.  
   And in this emergency supplemental which is a true emergency, our men and women need what they need now in the field, not in 2 or 3 weeks, now. 
   The real issue is we are helping and correcting the lack of oversight, the lack of will and the desire to correct the issues at Walter Reed Hospital which, when our troops are injured in the field, some of them, and Mr. Ryan and I have been through the whole track of what happens to our men and women that are injured in the field. They are dealt with in the field hospital, then shipped over to Germany. They spend some time over there, and then they are medevaced over here to Walter Reed Hospital. The last thing they need to see is a broken-down, lights-out, insect-infested Walter Reed Hospital. We responded. 
   As a matter of fact, it makes me feel so good with this new Democratic Congress that we have here now, prior to the Walter Reed story coming out, and I need to get my chart on Walter Reed, prior to the Walter Reed story coming out, this Congress, through the continuing resolution that we passed at the end of January, because the rubber stamp worked on some days, the 109th Congress did not finish the appropriations bills, we reprioritized their priorities and put $3.6 billion in into VA health care. 
   Here is a specialist here. She lost her legs. She lost her legs because this country asked her to go and fight in a foreign land, in Iraq. 
   This whole story here, the Newsweek cover, and Newsweek comes out every week, but I actually saved this. I save a number of Newsweek, Time and other periodicals and dailies so we can archive what has happened in the past so we can have a better future. 
   Right now what we are doing in the emergency supplemental is a better future for the very people we are trying to help. For the President to say, well, I am concerned about other things that are in the bill. 
   Well, he wasn't concerned when it was okay for big oil. He wasn't concerned about that. I am so glad we live in a democracy, and I am able to say this. I am very concerned. You know why I am concerned? Because there are some American people who woke up early one Tuesday and stood in line and voted for some representation. 
   Mr. Speaker, as sure as my name is Kendrick Meek, they are going to get it from this Congress. They are going to get representation from this Congress. We are going to make sure that their values are turned into not only law but to action. 
   Mr. Ryan, when you talk about this issue of what is in the bill, what is actually in the emergency supplemental, when we talk about the accountability measures, you can't help but get passionate about it. 
   Mr. Speaker, if I was an intern working in a congressman's office and if he or she voted against the emergency supplemental, my American spirit would have to come out. I would say I love the congressman or congresswoman, but it is the right thing to do. 
   So what is the problem? Maybe they need to send an e-mail. Maybe they need to send out an e-mail under the name John Doe or something saying, Mr. President, I love you and all of this, but please don't veto this bill. That is where we are now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THIRTY-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. It is very interesting, my grandmother used to say sometimes, I am so glad that I lived long enough. She used to say sometimes, even as I go from day to day, you know they say thank God for life. That is what she used to say, I am glad God allowed me to live long. 
   I am so glad that God allowed me to live long enough to see the paradigm shift that is now taking place here in Washington, D.C.; see accountability;  see a new direction; see oversight and see us sharing in that accountability, us sharing and making sure that we are making cuts and having reform ourselves so that America can be better. 
   We used to say, Mr. Speaker, all the time in the 109th Congress, we have the will and the desire to lead; give us the opportunity to lead. And now that leadership is happening. So, Mr. Ryan, keep pointing it out. Let us keep sharing good and accurate information. Let us continue to go to the Congressional Record. Let us continue with our third-party validators because we love third-party validators, and the credibility and the integrity of the 110th Congress will live on in a bipartisan way. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THIRTY-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, I just want to say that the past will speak to the future, and I want to leave you with this closing comment: remember the field mouse is fast, but the owl can see at night. It is a pleasure being on the floor with you. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is always an honor to address the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (BE A PART OF THE CHANGE -- (House of Representatives - April 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Mr. Speaker. It's an honor to come before the House once again. I can share with you, as Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee just finished speaking about, the wonderful ceremony that we had today, but sad ceremony, reflecting on the life of Dr. Martin Luther King some 40 years later. To see Democrats and Republicans standing side by side, to have reflection from those that worked beside Dr. King, like our very own John Lewis and Majority Whip Clyburn, who talked about his experience and first meeting that he met with him in 1960 in Morehouse University, to Majority Leader Reid reflecting on, the Senate reflecting on how he worked here in the Capitol at that time as a part of the crowd outside; and others that shared stories of their time when Dr. King walked the Earth; his son, Martin Luther King, III, who reflected on his father's death and his memory and charged the House and the Senate to carry out efforts against poverty, also to deal with the issue of war and conflict, and also looking at the very issue of making sure that we  stand up for the least of these, as many of us are very, very familiar with. Mr. Speaker, I also believe that it's important in that light to have Americans, and as leaders of this great country of ours, have Americans remember the past, but look forward in a forward leaning way to the future. 
   I had the opportunity to talk to the National Association of Black Realtors or African American Realtors over at Union Station just about 30 minutes ago. It reminded me of a story, and I shared it with them, of when my mother served here in the House of Representatives and I had the opportunity as a State legislator to come up to see her sworn in once again. While I was up here, I had a chance to run into one of my good friends, Reverend Jesse Jackson. 
   He spoke to a group of folks that were here that day when his son was sworn into Congress for the first time. He said that he could not help but to get emotional. He got emotional when he was sharing with us how that experience was a moving experience for him because he reflected on the story of his father, who fought in World War II, and after World War II was over, came back to the United States. But he was taking the train going south and riding behind the prisoner of wars when they went through Union Station. And his father couldn't help reflect that he saw the United States Capitol, but even though he fought on behalf of his country, felt that he did not move forward because he was behind prisoners of war in his own country. And that God would have him live long enough for his grandson to become a Member of Congress is an example of how this country can correct itself over time. We still have a long way to go and a short time to get there. I shared that with them because many of us are professionals and have an opportunity to take part in this democracy and be a part of the change in America. 
   I can say that tomorrow will be a day for the country to pause and to recognize the contributions of one of the greatest Americans that ever walked the Earth, and that's Dr. King. I look forward to participating in that reflection like I did today. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, I would like to share just a few thoughts with the House, as we have now broken for the week and will be back next week and the business of the people of the United States of America will continue. The New Direction Democratic Congress are about working with some of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle about solutions, Mr. Speaker, and not just conversation. 
   I think it's important for us to look at what has taken place under the Capitol Dome. I was on the floor yesterday evening and I spoke to the Members on how we are going to have to work together to be able to help everyday Americans work through their real life issues that they are facing now. Long ago, we knew of not only predatory lending practices, but we also knew of the fact that there are a number of Americans that are going to hit hard times, and many pieces of legislation passed off of this floor riding on the backs of everyday Americans, individuals that punch in and punch out every day, those that try to carry out the American dream by purchasing a home and getting their piece of the American pie. 
   For many Americans, that is the only savings they have. A home is a way to be able to allow their blood line, wherever they may be in rural America, urban America, wherever their background may be, if they are a citizen or resident of this country, to be able to educate their children, to be able to borrow money to be able to educate their children, or to be able to allow their children to have something that they can call a piece of the rock or a piece of the American pie. 
   I can tell you right now, Mr. Speaker, that a number of those families, and I mean they are in the millions, are in jeopardy right now of losing the very thing that they can hold on to. They may not own their car, they may not necessarily have a lot of money. But what they do have are homes. Many of these individuals are up in age. They have fewer tomorrows than they have yesterdays. They are finding themselves in a situation of not having the financial means to be able to protect their home.     
   One of the cornerstones of public service is to make sure that we come up and we protect those individuals and that we make sure those Americans are not left behind. I do know that this Congress in the past, not this Democratic Congress, but Congresses before, have attempted to stimulate the economy through tax breaks for the very super-wealthy and the super-rich, saying it will trickle down to the everyday American. That hasn't happened. This is a perfect example that it hasn't happened. 
   This week the Senate worked very hard, Leader Reid and others, with Senate bill 2636, the Keep Families From Facing Foreclosures in Their Homes. This ``new direction'' Congress came here saying that we are here to represent the American people; not just Democrats, not just independents, not just Republicans, but the American people, and we have done that. We have been able to enact measures into law expanding affordable mortgage loan opportunities through the Federal Housing Administration for families that are in danger of losing their home by increasing the FHA loan limits up to $729,750 within the economic stimulus bill which passed recently. 
   Also we have passed a measure to prevent homeowners from facing a tax bill at the same time they are losing their homes through H.R. 3638, the Mortgage Forgiveness Debt Act. We also expanded Federal counseling for families in danger of losing their homes through foreclosure through the FY 2008 omnibus appropriations bill. 
   I think it is important for us to talk about what we have done in this Congress versus what we haven't done. But I can tell you that since I started out with what has already happened, and more has to happen, because we still have individuals that are out there that are hurting. It is not enough in my district, the 17th Congressional District, that we are going to have a foreclosure prevention workshop, where we are going to have lenders and counselors there to be able to talk to them. My constituents need more than that. The American people need more than that. By the fact they voted for me on a given Tuesday, early one Tuesday, by federalizing me, allowing me to come to Congress and other Members of Congress to come here, we are here to represent their best interests. So we have to continue to move forward. 
   These are measures that have passed the House but have not become law. Strengthening consumer protection against risky housing loans in the future; H.R. 3915, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act; expanding affordable housing mortgage opportunities for families in danger of losing their homes through the Federal Housing Administration reform, which is H.R. 1852. This bill passed both House and Senate and is supported by the White House, I must add, but has been held up by one Senator due to his opposition to the temporary FHA loan limit increase. 
   I think it is important that everyone understands that this has to be a group effort. Back home in my district, folks don't understand one individual having a problem with it, but that is going back to the rules in one of our chambers here in Congress. Also it strengthens regulations of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, and raised the loan limits and increased the amount of the loan through H.R. 1427. It goes on and on and on of efforts that we have tried to pass here in the Congress and become law, but for some reason, have not. 
   So next week the House, under Chairman Frank's leadership and the Financial Services Committee, will work very hard to address these issues through legislation. The act we are bringing forth will be comprehensive legislation to address the housing crisis that we face here in America, and the legislation will help stabilize the housing market, which is the first step to rebounding our economy. The measure will do many of the things that I just talked about that are held up either in the legislative process or procedural maneuvers that have taken place or objections by the White House. 
   It would also prevent the value, as it relates to homes, the value of homes going down. It will work towards that. Chairman Frank's legislation will loan $10 billion to States and localities to purchase and rehab foreclosed properties.  
   This is very, very important, Mr. Speaker and Members. As we talk about 1 million Americans losing their homes in the last year, with a prediction that 2 million will lose their homes this year, imagine how back home America is going to look, need it be small or large. Homes that are vacant, Americans not able to receive loans to be able to buy those homes. In rural America, homes vacant without having individuals able to move into those homes. You know they will fall into disrepair. This $10 billion will stimulate the economy, and that will increase American jobs. They are not jobs overseas, but are jobs right here. 
   I think it is very important that we pay very close attention to this. I want to commend the Democratic leadership for continuing to push this measure forward in light of so many accomplishments that have taken place since the Democratic Congress has been put into place. 
   I want to mention just a few of them so that my time on the floor today just won't be about describing what our problem is in America, but to talk about how we are making real change here in Washington, DC. I have been here 6 years. I have seen more happen in the last year than I saw in the 4 years prior to this time, the 4 years prior to this Congress. 
   There was the minimum wage increase that was signed into law that passed in 2007. There was stem cell research enhancement, which was sent to the President's desk in June of 2007. Also we implemented all of the 9/11 Commission recommendations, which were recommendations that came out of a bipartisan commission. They were all implemented by this House and by the Senate and sent to the President and he signed it. Also repealing subsidies to big oil and reinvesting in renewable energy. 
   I want to stop right there. That is a major accomplishment. Just yesterday I noticed that a number of the independent truck drivers went on strike. They 
   went on strike because of the high cost of diesel fuel. I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, if we were doing the kind of things that this Congress has done 4 years ago, this country would not be as dependent on Middle Eastern oil as we are now. The President's response to what needed to happen 2 years ago or 3 years ago was ``America is addicted to oil.'' 
   Well, to talk about something and blame the American people saying we are addicted to oil is not an answer and not a solution. I can tell you, this legislation that passed this house by 264-163 is the kind of Congress that the American people voted for to be able to lead this country in a new direction and to move this country in a new direction, or, as a matter of fact, let me put this way, move this Congress in a new direction, which has happened and will continue to happen. 
   We also are making college more affordable. I think that is very, very important. It was one of the first pieces of legislation that we passed in this new Congress, to cut student loan rates in half. 
   I think it is very, very important that we look at these measures as accomplishments and not as wedges that will cut Democrats from Republicans, because the American people ultimately are counting on us to move in the right direction. 
   Since we know what is going to happen next week, and it will be one of the major actions that will take place, when Chairman Frank will have a chance to start considering the markup for his piece of legislation out of this committee, we also have to reflect on the reports that we will be receiving on the status of what is happening in Iraq. 
   As many of the Members know, recently we had an uptick in violence. That should not be shocking, because one of the leaders of one of the insurgent groups over in Iraq said they were going to take 6 months off to regroup. 
   The American people have put a lot of money, or this Congress has put a lot of money on the ground in Iraq, and I am talking about outside of the money that we have supplied to protect our troops and the men and women that are over there that are civilians, but I am saying cash money on the streets in Iraq. 
   Now, here is where the rub comes in and here is where the leadership has to begin. We have to start not only having the discussion, we have to take action and make sure that we bring our men and women home and that we bring them home faster than what the President is looking to bring them home, the timeline he is looking to bring them home. As a matter of fact, he is not looking to bring them home any time soon. There are members of the Senate that are talking about 100 years or what have you. 
   But I had the opportunity, Mr. Speaker and Members, when we broke for Easter to go and spend 2 days at Camp Pendleton, which is one of the largest Marine bases we have in the country, over on the West Coast in California. I stayed on base purposely so that we would have an opportunity to interface with those that are in uniform and their families. 
   Of course, the word gets around that there is a Member of Congress on base. That is not an everyday event, because there are only 500 and some Members of Congress. I think that it is important that we have a chance to interface, because I think that this Congress needs to understand and the Bush White House needs to understand that this is not just about buying smart bombs. It is not just about buying MWRAP vehicles. It is not just about making sure that they have the ammunition that they need and the kevlar that they need to protect themselves. All of those things that I mentioned are very worthy, and they are the reason why we have the number one military on the face of the Earth. 
   But I think there is also a human side to this and that we should be just as excited about trying to assist those individuals, and that is on the family side and the human side of what is happening to our men and women in Iraq. 
   When I first got on the base, Mr. Speaker, I noticed a billboard that was an electronic billboard that had on there, if you are in need of counseling or if you are in need of group therapy, please call this number. I was pleased to see that, because so many times we feel that the only injury that could possibly happen when we see one of our patriots come back is one of losing an arm or a leg, or those that have Purple Heart tags that are traveling throughout America. 
   But many of those injuries from this conflict are between the ears of the stress and also some of the concussion bombs that are going on over in Iraq. And these Americans have fought more than any other American soldier, marine, sailor, airman, Coast Guard, than any other time in the history of the republic; longer than World War II, longer than world World War I, longer than Vietnam, longer than Korea and the other conflicts, and on and on. These Americans are special because they are unique, and we have to make sure that we do what we have to do. 
   Now, let me just say this: The Democratic Congress has made sure that the VA received the most money that it has ever received in the history of the Republic, in the history of the VA, making sure that our men and women get what they need when they come back. And as they continue to come back, that is there for them. We have to make sure that we take action as we look at this budget and as we have the debate about this war in Iraq, that we bring our men and women home more sooner than later. 
   Now, I have heard some Members on the floor talk about things that Iraqi children and women and men and boys and what have you, that they don't have the opportunity to do or they didn't have the opportunity to do until we got there.     
   Let me just share something with you. It is good to have goodwill and all of those things throughout the world, but right here in America, Mr. Speaker, and as a Member of Congress I think it is important that we also understand, that there are Americans right now, women, children, boys, men, girls, our seniors that don't have; because $70 billion, $100 billion, $200 billion are on the ground in Iraq and on and on and on, and we are sitting here thinking, we have Members running around here talking about we need earmark reform. Well, guess what. Reform has happened. There are fewer earmarks than there were in the previous Republican Congress and the Congress before that. And, that we have disclosure. Americans can go on Members'  Web sites and can go and can see exactly what the request that they are making. 
   You want to talk about reform. More has happened in the last 14 months in the Democratic new direction Congress than at any other time since I have been in Congress. So when we look at these issues and they stand here and talk about a $250 project, as Mr. Ryan talked about yesterday, an EPA mandated project on the local government, complaining about that; meanwhile, looking and not even paying attention to the mountain of debt that we have in this country that was built up by the Bush administration and his friends here in Congress on the Republican side, but not even looking at the $70 billion that individuals voted for to continue this effort in Iraq saying that we have to help the poor people of Iraq. 
   Now, let me tell you something. I may feel a little warm and fuzzy about the $70 billion, saying maybe that is right, if the Iraqi government was working under the same light that we are working under here. I think it is important that we reflect on what is happening right here in America, what is happening two blocks away from this Capitol; that we have individuals that are in poverty, we have individuals that don't have health care. Not individuals, but Americans that don't have health care. We have veterans that are sitting right out as I speak now in front of the Lincoln memorial at the last outpost that are in need. 
   I was out there, and sometimes, Mr. Speaker and Members, I take my children and we ride our bikes down the mall here, and we pass by the Washington monument, and then we move on and we go by the World War II memorial, and then we go by, we go down to the reflection pool and go down to the Lincoln memorial. And every time we are there, we stop to talk to those veterans. And there is one, they are there, veterans from Korea and veterans from Vietnam, and sometimes every now and then you will get a Gulf War I veteran that is out there. And I start talking to them about health care and many of them don't even know I am a Member of Congress or what have you. What is happening at the VA? What is happening with you in your everyday life? And you would be shocked how many times I have been there, in that very short time talking to them taking a break, and they pull pills out of their pocket into their hands because it is time for them to take one of the cocktails they have to take to be able to deal with those demons they have been having to deal with all of those years. 
   Now, I am going to say, those individuals allow us to salute one flag, those individuals allow me to sit here as an American congressman and speak my mind in this democracy, and I salute them. Beyond mentioning their commitment to this country and the fact that their comrades, some of them did not make it back, which are also there in the various memorials that are on the mall. 
   I say all of this because Members are taking this time lightly. And I have shared many times that I have come to the floor, as I move towards a close here, Mr. Speaker and Members, that this time in our country is like no other time in the history of the Republic. We owe foreign countries more money than we have ever owed them in the history of the Republic, some of the countries that we have concerns about, security concerns about. They have a part of the piece of the American pile because we have had an administration and a White House that has said we have got to give these tax cuts, even we can't even afford them, to individuals that are not even asking for them. And that strategy failed, because now we are in an economic downturn. And it ain't just about housing. It is the fact that jobs have not been created here. Jobs have been shipped overseas. And that seems to be the kind of global piece of saying, oh, we need to do that, because there is this importance that we have a strong global economy. I agree with that. But, at the same time, we have to have a strong America. 
   So as we look at what our veterans are going through and the more and more veterans that are going to be passed on because of some of the bad decisions that have been made in the past doesn't mean that we have to continue to make those bad decisions. It means that we should learn from those bad decisions, and then have the kind of paradigm shift that Democrats, Republicans, and Independents are looking for. 
   So, I feel that as we continue to look at our time here in Congress, as we continue to look at our responsibility, we have to take every living moment to make sure that we bring about that change. 
   When I first got here, we used to talk about not leaving the responsibility on our children and grandchildren. Now, we can say not leaving the responsibility on ourselves. There was a time we thought that the debt, folks would, our children will have to bear the responsibility of our bad decisions or inaction or lack of action. And now, it is about those of us today bearing the brunt of the bad decisions that were made in the past and decisions that are being made today by some Members of Congress. Luckily, we have this new direction Congress that are here to stand up on behalf of the American people and not the special interests. 
   So I say that, Mr. Speaker. In the light of saying that, I hope, and I want to commend some of my friends on the Republican side that have saw the light, that have gone to the wizard, that have asked for courage and they have stepped out and they voted with Members on the majority side to bring about the kind of paradigm shift. But there are some that are here that are not willing to do that. And that is fine. Because, as far as I am concerned, the American people spoke in the last election, and that is the reason why I can say I am a member of the majority now. 
   And, guess what. Some of them were Republicans that were very frustrated with the fact that fiscal responsibility was not carried out, that decisions that should have been made as relates to the war in Iraq were not made, that the economy was going south, that they didn't have what they used to have in their bank accounts and investment in their family and their bloodline and no longer had it, so they had to bring about the kind of change. The American spirit will rise beyond partisan politics every time when this country is in jeopardy. 
   So when we come around to the next election, Mr. Speaker and Members, I want you to reflect on that individual that is going to go on a given Tuesday to vote for the kind of representation that he or she expects to have. And if they don't see when they look at the report card, because we have four 24-hour channels that are dedicated to news or close to the news, we have public television that is dedicated, gavel-to-gavel coverage of county commission and city commission and State legislators and also here in Congress, dedicated for the 
   American people to take an opportunity to take a look at it. We have our cyber space that is available. 
   We used to have, Mr. Speaker, a digital divide in this country, so that when I was in the State legislature, it was thought, where would the DSL lines go? Where will the phone company allow those lines to be put on by the cable company? And now we have moved to the technology of Blackberries and I-phones and all of these things where individuals get news like that. 
   When the report card is mailed to the home or when they look at those, they go on-line or they look at television, they listen to the radio or they read the paper to find out, where were you standing on these very issues that are before Congress that are dealing with them, the foreclosure of their home, the economy, health care for children as we look at the SCHIP legislation which we call CHAMP here that provides for children with health care; as we look at what happened with oil subsidies, of bringing about alternative fuel to allow us to be able to invest in the Midwest versus the Middle East. When we start looking at biofuel that is, for instance, in my State, sugarcane that has already been extracted of its sugar, but the leftovers of that turn into fuel to run those sugar mills and to be able to go into tanks of Americans that are trying to make a living. We start looking at that. We start looking at why we are paying per gallon for fuel as we pay for a gallon of milk. 
   When we start looking at those issues, I think they are going to look  at and they are going to say, listen, I am an Independent, I am going to have to vote for the folks that are about the solution; I am a Republican, I am going to have to vote for the folks that are about the solution. In my house, I am a Democrat, I am going to have to vote for the folks that are willing to move this country in a new direction. And the evidence has spoken over the last 14 to 15 months that the new direction Congress has moved in that direction; and, that through the fact that we have been empowered by the American people to lead this country in a new direction, the President on bills that he said he would not sign had to sign because we kept that pressure on. 
   So I say all of this, Mr. Speaker, in closing that what we are facing right now are real issues. Our responsibility is great. Historians will write about this time in Congress. And I share with the Members, as a matter of fact I beg the Members to be on the right side of history and making the right decisions right now. 
   I will close with the information that I received as of April 3 as it reflects in Iraq: 4,011 Americans that have died in the line of duty; total number wounded in action and returned to duty 16,364; total number of wounded in action and have not returned to duty is 13,264. 
   As we break for the next couple of days and over the weekend, come back hopefully with the heart and the mind to be about the solution. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Mr. Murphy. It is an honor to be here on the floor with you. I look forward to having a discussion not only with you, but also other Members of the House about what is coming up this week. I know that you alluded to last week's action that took place here on this floor. Democrats and Republicans and the majority were able to pass an emergency supplemental war bill that would not only put benchmarks in to make sure that the Iraqi Government is doing all that they should do to make sure that they carry out their responsibility since the U.S. taxpayer will be spending over $100 billion and counting over in Iraq in this piece of legislation, this supplemental, but also the $400-plus billion that have already been spent. 
   And also security for the troops, making sure that Department of Defense regulations, Mr. Speaker, that have been put forth to protect our troops, that they have what they need: the up-armor that they need, the training that they need, the equipment that they need, the personal equipment that they need. 
   And also making sure that our troops, as it relates to their rotation into theater, that they actually get an opportunity to have a Defense Department that has to do what they said they would do, and making sure they have enough time to be with their families, make sure they are able to maintain a job, those that are Reservists and National Guard men and women back home. And to also make sure that their families have an opportunity to be a part of their father or their mother's lives, or their parents having an opportunity to enjoy their son or daughter. And I think that is so very, very important as family values, and it is also standing by our word. 
   If we can't stand by our word while they are enlisted or federalized to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan, then how do they expect for us to stand next to them and behind them when they are veterans and they are out in the world of veterans health care? 
   I can tell you also, Mr. Speaker, that I am very pleased with the fact that we did put something in the legislation that will hopefully point towards redeployment of our troops. This war will continue and continue and continue if left up to the President of the United States. But before I start talking about the action really that we took, passing that legislation, seeing the voice vote that took place in the Senate last week, moving on legislation even with a closer time line and different benchmarks, which, Mr. Speaker, you know we will come together in conference to talk about a little further and iron out and be able to get a work product to the President. 
   But as you know, today, March 26 of 2007, the number stands at 3,235 U.S. servicemen and women that have died in Iraq; some 13,415 of U.S. troops have been injured and returned back to battle. You have to think about it, injured and then returned back to battle; 10,000 U.S. troops have been injured and have not been able to return back to battle. 
   Hearing those numbers and hearing how they continue to move up, Mr. Speaker, even speaks further to the kind of oversight that this Congress must have in this conflict in Iraq, this civil war in Iraq, I must add, that we are officiating. 
   We know that the President had a press conference after we took our action here on the floor. I want to commend the Members again who voted in the affirmative to make sure that we were able to take action, the first time the U.S. Congress has taken action with benchmarks, even against profiteering with U.S. contractors that are the third largest, you may call it coalition partner, or the second largest outside of U.S. servicemen and women in Iraq. You would assume that there are other countries in the world, since this is such a world issue that the United States is involved in, you would assume that there would be a number of countries before U.S. contractors, but U.S. contractors are the second largest number of individuals that are there. 
   Mr. Speaker, when I talk about these numbers and when we talked about the action last week, the President, then he sprung into action. He had a press conference talking about how the Congress is now holding dollars back from our men and women in theater and asking us to please stop. Well, I am glad that I lived long enough over the weekend to come back here to the floor, Mr. Speaker, to not only share with the President, but those that may think that by us standing up on behalf of veterans health care, by us making sure that Walter Reed Hospital gets the necessary dollars they need to be able to take on the influx of men and women coming back from theater that are injured of the 10,772 that cannot and will not go back to theater and the 13,415, when that number continues to increase, that when they get their care in the field and then they move on to Germany and they get even further care, and some of them have to come back here to Washington, D.C. to even get physical therapy and all the things that they need to get back to the theater, if that is stopping the dollars from getting to the troops, then I think that we need to go back to a civics lesson of what this is all about. 
   We are putting dollars in what the Republican majority did not put in. Anything that the President asked for, the Republican majority rubber-stamped it. As a matter of fact, the Republican majority in the last Congress  was so loyal to the President of the United States that whatever he said, whatever he wanted, they did it. And guess what, Mr. Speaker? I am here to report that that is one of the big reasons why we have a Democratic majority right now in the U.S. House of Representatives and in the Senate. Some 30-odd seats were lost living under that philosophy. And all of the hours that we spent on this floor, all of the hours that we spent in committee saying that if you give us the opportunity to lead, we will lead. Democrats, Republicans, Independents and some Americans who never voted before in their life went out and voted last November. 
   Now, the President can have a press conference, that's fine, he is the President of the United States. I can go out and have a press conference. The bottom line is let's not have the people of the United States of America feel that the U.S. House and the Senate are holding money back from the troops. As a matter of fact, we have given more than what the President called for as it relates to armor. We've given the troops more as it relates to troop safety and force protection. We've added three new brigades to the Marines. We've added 36,000 more soldiers to the Army to make sure we are at the readiness level. Under the Republican majority of the 109th and the 108th Congress, as this war started and continued to escalate to the numbers of where it is now, our readiness levels, and when I speak of readiness levels, Mr. Speaker, I speak of the fact that if we had to go into another conflict, we are not ready.     
   There is not a National Guard unit right now that is ready to go to battle. Now, what do we mean by readiness? Making sure that they have the equipment, making sure that they have enough personnel to be able to rise to the occasion, all the specialists that are needed, all the striker brigades that are needed. We have 100 of them, but we are not at the readiness level that we need to be, and we haven't been at this low level that we are now since the Vietnam war. I am not giving out any national secrets. Everyone knows that this is the case. So if we know the obvious, why not take care of it? 
   We are doing more than what the President has asked for. The President just has a problem. Do you know what the problem is? It is the fact that the Congress has said: Guess what, Mr. President. I know you have been saying a lot over the last 4 or 5 years of this war, now within its fifth year, the third escalation of troops that you have sent over to Iraq; and we pass a nonbinding resolution in the majority and Republicans voted for that, too, saying that we disagree with that philosophy. The American people are far beyond the President on this issue. So we are here to represent the American people. 
   The second point, when you look at this issue of the binding resolution, it says that if the Iraqi government does not meet the benchmarks set by who, the President of the United States, George W. Bush, then the redeployment of troops will start. The clock will start at that point for a redeployment of a number of troops within 6 months. 
   What else took place? The President said that it is important that we are not there forever. Well, still living under going in the old direction, the President wants the prerogative to be able to say, well, they are going to be there as long as they need to be there, and there is not necessarily a plan, and you haven't given an opportunity for the plan to work of the new escalation of troops. 
   Well, guess what? We saw plan one, and the violence did not go down. We sat here and watched plan two, and the violence did not subside. They weren't using Vice President Cheney's, the enemies are in the last throes of their insurgency, later to find out that that is not the truth. 
   So I guess we are just are supposed to continue to go on and on and on. 
   So, Mr. Murphy, I guess when we start looking at the benchmarks, that is the problem. Why doesn't the President say, that is my problem; I have a problem with the fact that the U.S. Congress is saying they no longer want to go with my original thoughts? There is nothing wrong with that. He is an American. He can say it. 
   But the bottom line is every last one of us sitting in these seats here in Congress and across the hall in the Senate, our obligation is to the individuals that have sent us here. Our constituents that have Federalized us here to make decisions on their behalf. 
   We are not generals. Some of us served in the military, some of us did not serve in the military, some of us never wore a uniform in our lives, but I can tell you this much. We have been sent here to watch over the U.S. taxpayer dollars, have the well-being of our U.S. troops that are allowing us to salute one flag, and to make sure that our number one obligation is to be loyal to the American people, and not one person. 
   So I speak very firmly and I stand very firmly on this point. Because I sat here the last 4 years in the minority not having an opportunity to be a part of the decisionmaking, not even being able to agenda a bill in committee or subcommittee, not able to bring a bill up here on the floor that the Republican majority did not allow me to. I mean, under the rules, they didn't allow me to. To now say, well, the President says that we are holding up dollars, emergency dollars for the war in Iraq? 
   Let me just share a few other things, and then possibly we can go into an exchange. 
   In the summer of 2005, there was a shortfall as it relates to veterans' health care, $2.7 billion. 
   In March of 2006, the President's budget cut funding by $6 billion over 5 years that was passed by a Republican-controlled Congress. And the first time, Mr. Murphy, that we had an opportunity to do anything, when I say the Democratic majority, the first action, and it was because of the inaction by the Republican Congress that did not pass the appropriations bills on time, that we passed a continuing resolution to keep this government running, and what did we do? 
   Well, we went into that bill and we made sure some of the special interest tax breaks and all of the things that the Republicans had in place, being loyal to individuals that had great influence in this House, and I am not talking about Members, I am talking about outside forces. We took $3.6 billion of the U.S. taxpayer dollars to increase the VA health care program and to make sure that their budget was in place so that our veterans would have somewhere that they can get care and their families. 
   That was our action. The President didn't ask for that. As a matter of fact, the President didn't even want it. But we did it because it was the right thing to do, and that was prior to the Walter Reed. 
   I keep saying that because that is so very, very important. People think that politicians and some folks do things just because somebody was looking or somebody said that you should do it or you are under some political pressure. That was a natural thing for the Democratic majority to do, and we did it. 
   And for the President to stand and say, well, you know, there is things in there that should not be in there and things that I didn't ask for. Well, guess what, we have to ask for it. I am even going to go down memory lane again. 
   January of 2003, the same administration, President Bush cuts veterans' health care for 164,000 veterans. 
   March of 2003, Republican budget cut $14 billion from veterans' health care, passed by the Congress, with 199 Democrats voting against it. That is House Concurrent Resolution 95, vote number 82. 
   March, 2004, Republican budget shortchanged veterans health care by $1.5 billion. It was passed by the Congress, 201 Democrats voting against it. That is House Concurrent Resolution 393, vote number 92. 
   March, 2005, President Bush's budget shortchanged veterans' health care by more than $2 billion for 2005 and cut veterans' health care by $14 billion over 5 years. That was passed with 201 Democrats voting against it. That is House Concurrent Resolution, vote number 88. 
   I think it is very important that we outline that. 
   Just like I said here earlier when I talked about the 2005 shortfall, after Democrats pressured the Bush administration and finally acknowledged that the 2006 shortfall for veterans' health care totaled $2.7 billion, Democrats fought all summer to make sure that  those dollars were placed back in the right direction as it relates to veterans' health care. 
   Also in March, 2006, President Bush's budget cut veterans' funding by $6 billion over 5 years, passed by the Republican-controlled Congress and, like I said, at $3.6 billion. 
   Mr. Speaker, we come to the floor and we mean business. We are not coming here to have a press conference and talk to some folks that may not quite understand exactly what is going on day to day in 
   Congress. That is why we are here. We are here to make sure the American people know exactly what is going on here. 
   The reason why we speak very passionately about, you may say, well, it is Iraq, Iraq, Iraq, Iraq and, guess what, that other issue, Iraq. The reason we speak very passionately about that is that we have seen so much on this floor and so many words that Mr. Murphy talked about earlier, Members going on passing out inaccurate information every now and then, or the spirit of the information, whichever way you want to frame it, and to see the hard-core reality of these issues are still not addressed. 
   I had something here where all of the veteran groups, I must add here, Mr. Speaker, ``This much-needed funding increase will allow the Department of Veterans Affairs to better meet its needs for the men and women returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as all veterans who have served in the past.'' That is from the National Commander of Disabled American Veterans. That press release was March 21, 2007. ``The American Legion and its 2.8 million members applaud the Budget Committee for the budget resolution recommendation for $43.1 billion in discretionary funding for veterans. Your recommendations are close with the views that are estimated, that was estimated by the American Legion earlier this year.'' That is by the legislative director and the lead on the American Legion. 
   I think it is very, very important that Members understand that. Veteran groups are 110 percent, 110 percent, Mr. Speaker, about what this Democratic-controlled Congress is doing; and we are just getting started. This is Monday. We are talking about the things that we need to put in place to make sure that our men and women need to have what they need to have when they are in theater and when they are out of theater. 
   I challenge the President to think within his heart and within his mind that he would turn a new leaf, and making sure that when we send this emergency supplemental to his desk, if he vetoes it, it will be his action that will be delaying the dollars to go to our men and women in harm's way. 
   I have said once before last week, Mr. Speaker, I voted for two emergency supplementals, a lot that I did not agree with, but the last thing I wanted to do was to leave our men and women in harm's way without the necessary funding that they need. So if I, someone that has a different opinion than the President and the old Republican majority as it relates to this war in Iraq, we are all Americans first and, guess what, life is not perfect and everything is not going to come the way you want it to come when you want it to come. 
   There are other people in this democracy that have something to say about it, and I know there are Republicans in America that feel the way the way that we feel. I know that there are Independents in America that feel the way we feel, and I know that there are Democrats and those that are looking to vote in coming elections to be a part of this democracy. 
   So I come very proud of the work that has been done and the work that will continue to be done here in this House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. If I may, and then I will yield and you can share all the great information. And Ms. Wasserman Schultz happens to be in between us today, so all we need is Mr. Ryan down here, and she will have a real challenge. But I can tell you from past experience of serving with her for 12 plus years now that she is very capable of rising to the occasion here. 
   Let me just point out, just today, Mr. Murphy and Ms. Wasserman Schultz, we took a vote. We took a vote saying that we would like for the appointed U.S. District Attorneys to come and be confirmed before Congress. Something that is very, very important, giving the chief judge an opportunity to appoint a temporary U.S. District Attorney, for that opportunity to take place because of what is happening now in the Justice Department. And I think it is important. I saw Ms. Wasserman Schultz earlier talking today about this very subject. 
   But, on the Republican side, you have some Republicans that are saying it is just horrible of what is happening. Because if what we think or believe what happened, these political appointees and then they got taken out because they were either going after someone that the administration did not want them to go after or they weren't going after certain individuals as it relates to political motivation. And under what we may call regular order in the 109th Congress or the 108th Congress or beyond, the kind of grip that this administration had over the House and the Senate, the chokehold that they had over the House and Senate, this would have never been an issue. It never would have been followed up on. There never would have been a hearing. 
   Guess what? Now, Mr. Speaker, there are hearings in both House and Senate, and now the Attorney General is getting caught in his own words. One minute he had nothing to do with it, and he didn't know what anyone was talking about. Now we understand that he led a meeting even talking about this issue. 
   So when you look at it, and Mr. Murphy and Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 329 Members of the House. It goes to show you, with the right leadership in place, we have a Democratic majority, Republicans will vote, some Republicans will vote and move in the right direction. Only one Member of the Republican leadership voted for this commonsense approach. There are still Members on the Republican side that are in the leadership that are still holding on to what used to be. The election took place last November. You would think, well, maybe the American people are not with this. 
   So I am just saying that this issue is continuing to evolve, and I bring these examples up so that the Members can see that we have a lot of work to do. It is not about partisanship. This is about leadership, and we are providing the leadership here. 
   I know Ms. Wasserman Schultz who serves on the Judiciary Committee can speak more eloquently on this issue. But this is one example amongst many. You called out those bipartisan votes at the beginning of the hour. We have to continue to embrace bipartisanship because that is what the American people want. They don't want us to be Democrats and Republicans. They want us to be Members of Congress watching out for the better good.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to address the House once again. 
   I share the sentiment of my colleague in recognizing Senator Wellstone. He was definitely a cornerstone here in this building for public service and really was a student of many of our great leaders of the past and gave voice to health care in a way that no other can do it. 
   As you know, in the 30-Something working group, we come to the floor every day, or just about every day we are in session, to share with the Members the things that we have to continue to work on here in the House in a bipartisan way and also share with the Members the importance of making sure that we stand up on behalf of those Americans that need our assistance. 
   At this time, Mr. Speaker, I would like to yield to my colleague to address the House for as long as he would wish to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I am just very pleased that you came down at the time that you did come down and share with us about how important the NASA program is, especially to not only the development of the country but to our young people and those that have contributed and dedicated their lives to helping us along the way in the sciences, not to compete against States but to compete against other countries as it relates to the forward lean that we have to have. 
   We are going to talk about children's health care and a number of other issues, but we are glad that we kicked off with the NASA program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You're 110 percent right. And being from Florida, as you know, we have a number of NASA assets in Florida. And even when I was  in the Florida legislature, we were very supportive of programs that gave kids a jump start in the math and sciences to be eligible for NASA programs and other private programs that are out there as it relates to innovation and space. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much. And as we speak, there are those in the Capitol dome trying to make sure that children's health care gets its fair share from this country of ours. 
   I would just like to share with the Members some of the good things that are happening under the Capitol dome. 
   We have passed, Mr. Speaker, a number of measures that have been bipartisan and major as it relates to legislation. The 9/11 Commission recommendations are something that the House and Senate both passed, and that was signed into law. The largest college aid expansion since the 1944 GI Bill saved, on average for every student, I would say almost every American because, as it relates to college loans and student loans, the responsibility for paying many of those loans back fall back on parents and grandparents. So that's $4,400 in interest that the American people don't have to pay. 
   The first minimum wage increase in a very long time, double-digit years, was passed by this Congress. And it was because of the Democratic leadership and some of our friends on the Republican side that voted for the passage of that bill that we now have an increase in the minimum wage. 
   Innovation Agenda to promote 21st century jobs, passed by this House, signed into law. The Reconstruction Assistance Program for gulf coast disasters and hurricanes was passed and signed into law. The largest veterans health care increase in the 77-year history of the VA passed off of this floor and is still in a holding pattern as it relates to that becoming law or empowered by not only the President but the legislative process. Also, the landmark Energy Independence and Global Warming Initiative that was passed by this Congress. 
   Now, I think it's important that we look at the record-breaking roll call votes that have been taken thus far by this Congress and the work philosophy that we have in the 110th Congress versus previous Congresses. And you know that two of the initiatives that have passed on a bipartisan vote that I did not mention that the President has vetoed was the expansion of the life-saving medical research on stem cells that passed in a bipartisan way by this House and by the Senate and was vetoed by the President. And the most recent veto is the one that's dealing with health care for 10 million children and working families that passed off this floor on a bipartisan vote, came 13 votes shy last week of overriding the President's bad veto, had the votes in the Senate to do so, but it's something that we're working on right now, Mr. Speaker. And that's one of the reasons why I came to the floor today, and my other colleagues that will be joining me a little later on, to talk about the SCHIP plan. 
   I can tell you, as we stand here, Mr. Speaker, to address these issues dealing with children's health care, one said, when I was on the floor last week, well, the Congressman is talking about health care. The CHAMP, or SCHIP, bill is dealing with insurance. Well, I can tell you, when you're talking about insurance, you're talking about health care. If you don't have insurance, you're not going to be able to afford health care, especially the preventive care that the CHAMP bill or the SCHIP bill calls for. So, if you take the opportunity to go meet the average American that has a child that is not covered under health insurance, you're going to find an individual who will share with you that, without it, they can't go to many of the doctors offices where they can at least pay a small fraction or at least afford preventive care and the annual checkups that children need. 
   We're in a situation right now, Mr. Speaker, that we have children, if this SCHIP bill or CHAMP bill is not reauthorized, we're going to have children without health care, without health insurance. Whichever way you cut the cookie, they're going to need a way to pay for health care or you might as well look forward to parents going down the drugstore aisle trying to correct the sniffles and trying to head off fever and trying to head off other situations that young children run into. But those are just the minor issues. What about the bigger issues that, if detected early, can be prevented if we have the kind of health insurance that would be helpful for children? 
   As we start to look at a re-approach on this bill after the President's veto, I know that the Speaker and others, and in reading through not only the newspapers but also in meetings that have taken place, we are still holding hard on the 10 million children insured. Now, I think that's very, very important that we head in that direction and that we stand firm on the 10 million. 
   Last week, I was sharing with many of my Republican colleagues on the other side of the aisle, those of whom were in the 13, because there are some that are saying that they are with the American people, they don't necessarily have to be with the Democratic Caucus because this is not about the Republican Conference or the Democratic Caucus, this is about children having an opportunity to have health insurance to be able to have quality health care, and that's what it's about. And I want to commend my colleagues that are on the other side that have voted on behalf of not only their districts but young people in America and their families. 
   So, now we're down to correcting a wrong. Last week, I talked about the story, Mr. Speaker. In all great pieces of legislation and every initiative there is always a story before you get to the glory, and we're still writing the story. And I think, as we go into the final chapters of this SCHIP debate here in the House of Representatives and the Senate and we deliver another product to the President of the United States, I think it's important for those who voted against overriding the President on this issue, think about what you have done. You might not have felt the full brunt of the displeasure of the American people for the Congress, where many of our children are insured because we have health insurance and we have the kind of insurance that will cover our children, and that there are families that don't celebrate the same thing that we do, that there is going to be a great level of displeasure out there. And I want to say that out loud because I want to make sure that Members understand exactly what they're doing. 
   No one came to Congress to vote against health care for children. I don't think anyone jumped up and said at any political forum or debate, when they were debating, need it be a Republican primary or a Democratic primary, to say, ``You know, one of my goals when I get to Congress is that I'm going to vote against children's health care.'' I think they wouldn't have even made it to the Halls of Congress. I'm speaking to that individual Member that decided not to, whatever the situation may be. 
   I haven't seen, in my 14 years of public service, Mr. Speaker, a bill that I am 110 percent in support of and agree with every section in that bill. When we put together legislation, there is always something in the bill that you wish you could have more of or not have at all in the bill. And it's very unfortunate, especially when we're in a body of compromise, when we're talking about children that will become uninsured if we don't pass this bill, I think it's important for us to realize our place in this debate. I commend those that voted. You were supposed to vote for that. I'm glad you did. I'm glad you voted for the SCHIP program. 
   Let me just run some numbers. One may say, well, we're concerned about cost as it relates to providing insurance for children to have health care. Well, one day we're going to compare this as it relates to war, because a lot of folks get into the chest-beating posture or session when it comes down to the war in Iraq. And we're concerned about what happens with children tens  of thousands of miles from the United States of America. 
   I'm concerned, also. But I'm really concerned about what is happening with children here in the United States. And I think it's something that we all should pay very, very close attention to. 
   One day in Iraq costs $330 million. That will cover 270,000 kids. One week in Iraq costs $2.3 billion. That's 1.8 million kids who can be covered under the children's health care bill. One month in Iraq is $10 billion. That's one month that can cover 8.1 million children as it relates to health care. And the cost of 40 days in Iraq is $12.2 billion. That will cover 10 million kids' health care. I think it's important to look at just over one month that will cover a full year of health care for 10 million children. Just a couple of days over the average month will cover 10 million children. 
   So, when we start lining our priorities up of where we stand as a Congress, and I'm talking to the real minority here because there are very few Members of this House that are voting opposite of where the American people want us to be, and that's providing health care. Polls have shown here in the United States over 80 percent of Americans are saying that it's important for us to have children's health care. So, you have a very small percentage saying that they don't agree with this, and maybe they need more information. 
   But when you have Members of Congress, and we're talking about lights on, lights off, health care for 10 million children or not, that's a simple decision for one to make. If you have issues with the application of it, it has to be better than what we will not have if we don't reauthorize it and reauthorize it for 10 million children. 
   I think it's important that you understand a number of the coalitions that are here. And I'm spending the time on the floor, Mr. Speaker, to share this with the Members because this is, A, what do we look for in legislation? We look for bipartisanship. That's what the American people always say. They would love for Democrats and Republicans to work together. You have that in this bill. I mean, for this to be a partisan body, you have to look at the significance of having a bipartisan piece of legislation with major Democrats and major Republicans that are on board on the legislation. 
   You also have to look at the second issue that I think is very, very important; the fact that it passed both House and Senate overwhelmingly. And you have to look at that as a component and a proof to the leadership and the reason why we have to insure children, 10 million children in the United States of America. That's very, very significant. Don't let anyone belittle the work that has happened on both sides of the aisle with Democrats and Republicans sending a bill to the President. 
   I would also add on to that point the fact that the President vetoed the bill. And you had a commitment from the Senate, the United States Senate, that they would override the President of the United States on this issue because he's wrong. That's what is so good about our democracy. That goes back, not just a bill on Capitol Hill, it goes back to those days that used to come on Saturday morning to let young Americans know how this process worked. And then in the House we took the vote and we fell 13 votes short of overriding the President. That's very, very significant. 
   I came last week and commended those groups, those nonpartisan, volunteer groups that are dealing with children's diabetes, that are dealing with a number of issues, polio, the doctors that came to Capitol Hill, the March of Dimes, all the different foundations that are out there doing good things and passing good information out and encouraging Members to sign on and get that vote. We couldn't have had the kind of vote that we had last week if it wasn't for those outside organizations and Americans and parents and grandparents and children saying we should have health care.     
   When they see the kind of numbers that I am reading off, spending $330 million in Iraq in 1 day, that's just 1 day. I can get down to $3,300 and change every second that we are spending in Iraq. And you have folks here that are mumbling and grumbling about the cost of an insurance bill that will provide health care to 10 million children, we have 40 plus Governors out there in the 50 States that are out there saying that we need this bill. I want to break this down because I want to make sure that the Members, I don't want to use a lot of acronyms, I don't want to get into a lot of programs and all of that because I'm on the Ways and Means Committee and there's enough acronyms there to talk about health care. I'm on the Armed Services Committee and there is a plethora of acronyms that we could use there and all kind of big words. I want to make sure that everyone understands what it comes down to. You are either with insuring 10 million children or you're not. Period. Dot. There is no in between. There is no ``maybe I need to take more consideration'' or ``maybe I need to look at this a little further.'' We have already taken one vote that has passed the House overwhelmingly. We have already taken a second vote that fell 13 votes short of a two-thirds vote to override the President of the United States. And now we're about to take another vote. So it's almost like three strikes and you're out. 
   Mr. Speaker, I have been on this floor now coming on 5 years, speaking not only to the Members but also making sure that staff and everyone else understands the significance of every vote that we take. And if this was about politics, I always say it, look in the Congressional Record time after time again, if it was about politics, I could just sit in my office and let just the electoral process take its course. 
   I do believe that Members who are not voting for children's health care are making a career decision. That's what they're doing. Now, if this is the last day of school for Members and they're retiring after this term that is a whole other thing. But for those who want to continue to serve not only their districts and the American people, they have to pay very close attention to the vote that they are taking here on this floor. Insuring 10 million kids is bigger, in my opinion, than winning some sort of, you know, one or two political races. I am not into that. I was sent here to Congress, and many of us were sent, all of us were sent here to represent the folks back home. And I guarantee you, the folks back home are not saying, ``Please don't insure children. Whatever you do, Congressman, make sure you don't insure 10 million children or 5 million children. Just make sure you don't do that, and you have my vote.'' There is not anyone back there saying that. And so I think it's important for us, when we get into this process, I think it's important for us to share with Members what we are here for. Like I said, once again, there are some things in the bill that I don't agree with, but when you start talking about the insurance for children that my children celebrate, I wasn't elected for me to have my children to have health care and I look at my constituents and say, ``Run for Congress one day and you can be like me.'' That's not what it's about. It's about us being able to stand for them. 
   I think it's also important to look at even with some of the media accounts about some of the things that are going on here in Washington that we are working hard on, the Democratic side of the aisle, because Americans voted for change, Mr. Speaker. They didn't vote for the status quo. Republicans had the majority last time. There were Democrats and Republicans and independents who said, You know something, we gave you an opportunity. My kids and my grandkids and the fiscal situation this country is in is more important than my party affiliation. And we have seen throughout the country, Republicans say, ``I'm going to vote for the Democrat this time because I want to see change.'' Now that change is here and I read off a list of bills that were passed in a bipartisan way. These are not just Democratic bills, we beat our chests and say, ``Not one Republican voted for it.'' Yes, there are one or two there. But the majority of the major bills that have passed have passed with some Republican votes, and that is important to the process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Mr. Altmire. The good thing about it, and Mr. Ryan and I were in a meeting the other day, and I think it is important, very important, and I was sharing a little earlier today about giving thanks to those out in the field. And when I say ``those out in the field,'' those Americans out there, because the President said he wasn't going to sign the College Interest Rate Reduction Act or what have you, the $4,400 that Mr. Ryan alluded to. 
   If it wasn't for the American people pushing for that, it wouldn't have happened. If it wasn't for the American people saying that we wanted a minimum wage after double-digit years of no minimum wage, it would not have happened. If it wasn't for the American people stepping up at the last given Tuesday when we had the election for this House saying that we wanted to move in a new direction, it would not have happened. 
   I think it is important for us to look at this American spirit rising up again on the children's health bill. When we look at health insurance and we look at health care for children, the American people are going to make that happen, because hopefully we will have an opportunity to vote on that bill again. Hopefully after taking the number one vote that was a bipartisan vote, sending a bill to the Senate, the Senate sent a bill to us, and we voted out the bill and sent it to the President, and the President, two votes that took place, overwhelmingly bipartisan, the President vetoes the bill, okay? And now you are going to have a real third opportunity to vote again. 
   I don't know if those that have voted against the previous bills, if they want to continue to do it, because their excuse is to say, Well, you know, there was something I didn't understand on that first vote. Congressman, you mean on the second vote you still didn't understand? And then on the third vote? Well, maybe you are not in the business of making sure that children have health insurance so they can have health care. 
   So I am hoping that we can come together in even a greater way in passing a children's health care bill that covers 10 million children. I think it is important. I agree with the Speaker. I am glad she has put her foot down and this Congress has put our foot down and said we are going to do this. Because at the end of the 110th Congress, there is not going to be a short list of accomplishments; there is going to be a long list, because there has been a drought for a very long time to bring the issues and concerns back to those who attended your town hall meeting. 
   Congressman, what are you doing for the district? What are you doing for us? Yes, it is wonderful about the war. We know that is going on. All of us share in making sure our men and women have what they need to have and all of those different things, but what are you doing domestically? How does this affect my children? 
   Mr. Ryan talked about someone is going to sit next to a child that doesn't have health care, and if that child is sick, you can have all the health care in the world. Your child is coming home and they are going to bring whatever that other child has into the household and then everyone is sick, and now we have employers without employees, and we can go on and on and on. It is a domino effect. I think it is important that we continue to highlight that. 
   But I appreciate the fact you all have brought light to all of this. Even Mr. Ryan was talking about a democracy. I think a democracy is a good thing. I think it is playing out well. Even though we fell on the short end, 13 votes short of overriding the President, a major accomplishment with having the Senate vote in an overwhelming way and having the votes to override the President, and having a supermajority vote here in this House based on the strong Democratic leadership of even bringing the issue to the floor in the first place. 
   So I am excited about it. I do have faith in the American spirit. I know it will rise up. Those that have sent us here, those that do not work in the Capitol, those counting on us to do the right thing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's so good to see my friends on the Republican side talking about making sure that we help people and help the economy. And today, you know, we had a bipartisan piece of legislation that the President signed, which is good, this stimulus package. Of course all of the pieces in that package did not turn out the way everyone wanted it to turn out, but we knew that we had to get it in the hands of American people. It puts hundreds of dollars into the hands of almost 130 million Americans, disabled veterans, also seniors, who will spend these dollars immediately. 
   Mr. Speaker, I must also say, here in the 30-Something Working Group we talked a lot about the bipartisanship. And my good colleague, Yvette Clarke from the great State of New York represents Brooklyn, and was a part of that bipartisanship that we shared here on this floor. 
   Here in the 30-Something Working Group, we talk about how we can work together on behalf of all Americans, not just Democrats, power Democrats or power Republicans, but also independents. And I think it's important when we work together we're able to achieve goals on behalf of the American people. That's what we're looking for. 
   But, Ms. Clarke, one the things that I guess, or two of the things we're going to talk about tonight, not only the President's signing the stimulus package that the House and Senate worked on in a bipartisan way, but we also have to talk about the budget a little bit tonight. I was hoping, since it's one of these cold nights in Washington, DC, that maybe we can accomplish this in a record time of being able to allow folks who, the Federal Government was delayed 2 hours today in opening, but pretty much everyone showed up at my office, and we know that folks have to get home. 
   But I think it's important, because so many Americans, when the tax rebate comes in, which will be a separate check, their stimulus check will come in and hopefully it will be able to help folks be able to make ends meet. 
   This tax credit has also offered a one-time rebate of $300 per child. I think that's very, very important for those that are eligible to be able to get that one-time rebate per child. 
   Also, it expands financial opportunities for Americans in danger of losing their homes because of the mortgage crisis. And as you know, Mr. Speaker and Ms. Clarke, we have to make sure that we bring about the comprehensive reform that we need. A number of Americans are losing their homes. A lot of us back in our districts, you know, I'm going to have not only a workshop, but an ongoing working group in helping the folks in my district be able to keep their homes. That's the number one investment tool that we use when we do need money. Having that home and owning that home and having equity in that home is very, very important. Also it promotes small business investment in plants and equipment, and it helps create 500,000 jobs by the end of this year. 
   And I think that just looking at some of the points in this economic stimulus plan, this is a temporary fix. It's not what all of us here wanted. But on behalf of the American people and on behalf of our economy, we have to make sure that we make these ends meet. 
   One other thing I just want to add, and this is an AP story, Ms. Clarke, that the President acknowledged today that the country is suffering a tough period of economic uncertainty. We're going to talk about that when we talk about the Federal budget a little later on, a couple of these charts. You know I love charts. But we're going to talk about that, this economic uncertainty and how we get there because I think it ties into what our colleagues were talking about on the other side of the aisle, talking about all and every last tax cut is a good tax cut. And some tax cuts, especially when you're borrowing the money, I mean, we've got to talk straight to the folks, Ms. Clarke, this economic stimulus package that's going to benefit 130 million Americans, is borrowed money. Let's just go ahead and put it out there now. It's borrowed. I think it's important that we, if we're going to stop borrowing so much  money, then we have to be able to set the stage to allow Americans to see exactly what's going on, especially during the political scene. Folks have all these great proposals. Is it paid for? That's my question. 
   When I got here, Mr. Speaker and Ms. Clarke, it was, we're selling the future generation. Now I can honestly say that we're selling today when we talk about some of these charts, especially with the President releasing this budget. 
   But with those opening statements, I yield to you, Ms. Clarke, at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, let me just say, I think it's important that you talk about our stimulus package, talk about the realities of the stimulus package, this bipartisan package. And I think it's important that everyone pay very close attention to not only what we are saying but what we must do. This is a perfect example of how we worked in a bipartisan way. And I have always said bipartisanship is only allowed when the majority allows it to happen. And how we came off of the recess, came back here to Washington, DC, to respond to the crisis that's facing the country. It is not over. It is a temporary fix. You have a Band-Aid box. This is one of the medium-size Band-Aids in the box. It is not one of the big Band-Aids that's there. 
   I think it's important, and you gave the numbers out, on what happens in New York. But we have 8.3 million households on average that will receive $819 for those that are eligible for this stimulus package. And, Mr. Speaker, it was targeted towards the working families and seniors and those that fall under certain thresholds that we will be talking about in further detail here on the floor when we can talk about the stimulus package and talk about some of the benefits, especially for some of the working Americans who are trying to figure things out. 
   A lot of the folks, they like to sit down at their dining room table and kind of work this whole piece out on their taxes. Everyone doesn't go into  what you may call an H&R Block or something like that to get their taxes done. Some folks sit right there at the dining room table and try to work it out themselves. 
   So I think it's very important that it's really no secret when we provide tax incentives for rebates for small businesses so that they can grow, and also when we provide those rebates for those families that are eligible, especially the tax child credit, because a lot of folks miss out on that. They're not paying attention to what is going on. And even sometimes individuals that are preparing your taxes, you have to kind of know something when you sit down at that table. 
   There are Americans in all parties and those that are nonaffiliated parties and those who have not even started voting yet, there are a number of people that you sit down with your tax person, you don't want to sit there with your mouth hung open not necessarily knowing what is going on. You need to know a little bit about what is happening. It is almost like walking into a car lot. You want to know something about the Blue Book value of the car. You want to know the sticker price. You want to know list. You want to know all of those things so that you will have at least some level of 
   knowledge and edge on what is happening. 
   So many Americans leave money on the table, and I think, Ms. Clarke, I have asked some of my staff members to get with the Ways and Means staff to talk about how much money is left on the table every year that Americans are eligible for, working Americans are eligible for, small businesses are eligible for that they're not aware of. 
   So they sign that tax document, not the person that's preparing. I mean, they do, too, but ultimately, the taxpayer has to sign it. And you are responsible for what is on it and what comes back to you, if you have anything that's coming back. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I always enjoy when the two of us, Ms. Clarke and I, are on the floor because I like that New York-Florida thing going on, and I tell a lot of folks, Mr. Speaker, whenever I'm in New York, I will always smile at New Yorkers because I think eventually they're going to be my constituents one day in Florida. But it's always good to work with Ms. Clarke who is a public servant and who has served in the local government and where the rubber meets the road as it relates to that. 
   Mr. Speaker, as we start to talk about the budget, I want the Members to have the information that I am providing and Ms. Clarke is providing here on the floor. And all of this information can be found on-line on www.majorityleader.gov. It is a budget clearinghouse that's there. Everything that we show here on the floor will be eligible on www.majorityleader.gov. And they will be able to pull this information down. And I think it's important to share and have transparency as we look at this budget. I think the success of the 30-Something Working Group that we have had over the years is that we've shared the good, bad, and ugly as it relates to not only budgets, but also to initiatives that we are trying to push through Congress. 
   But like I said, just 2 weeks ago we were talking about holding the line on bipartisanship and making sure the stimulus package passed, and I'm glad we were able to do it and we can all stand under one flag. 
   I'm going to try to kind of zip through these charts real quick because I know Ms. Clarke and I have some back-and-forth to do in discussing this budget and what it means, but I just want to frame the debate here.     
   As you look at this dramatic deterioration in the budget picture, you have to look at the deficit in the billions. These numbers you see are in the billions. The last Clinton administration, when you look at after President Clinton left office, there was a $1.28 billion surplus that's there. You can see that right after President Bush took office, we automatically started deficit spending. This chart is not a chart that was put together by me independently. This is what the Office of Management and Budget has put forth. These are the numbers from the Office of Management and Budget that is overseen by the President's administration, and so these are their numbers. 
   When you're looking at $158 billion in 02 deficit; $378 billion in '03; $413 billion in '04; and in '05, $318 billion; '06, $248 billion, '07, $162 billion; and here we are in '08, for the FY09 budget, the President is looking to carry us to $110 billion. And then following in '09, $107 billion. This is his proposed budget. 
   Now let's just talk about this one chart just for a second. I just wanted to shed some light, and then we will move to the next one very quickly. 
   It's important that Americans understand what we're talking about. So when you hear folks on the floor start talking about tax cuts for the very wealthy and those who did not ask for tax cuts and saying that has to stay alive to be able to help our economy, I want you to reflect back to this chart here. This chart can be seen on majorityleader.gov. 
   Ms. Clarke, I know you're familiar with this chart. This chart has been an ongoing chart in the 30-Something Working Group. We talk about President Bush more than doubles the foreign-held debt. It took 42 Presidents 224 years to build up $1 trillion of foreign-held debt. What do we mean by foreign-  held debt? This means that foreign countries like China, OPEC, oil-producing countries, this means that Taiwan, this means that Japan, this means that India, this means that countries that we may have issues with, Argentina, a number of countries, they have bought our debt and we borrow money from them. 
   What does this mean? Forty-two Presidents, $1.01 trillion, 224 years of history in the country, from 1776-2000; 7 years of George W. Bush, some of it is with a rubber-stamp Congress until recently, until the American people spoke in the last election, and we're looking at $1.33 trillion in foreign-owned debt. 
   What does this mean for the country? I can tell you exactly what it means. It means that countries now look at America in a totally different light. It's almost like you having a friend, Ms. Clarke, and you borrowing some money. If I was to come to you and say, goodness, Ms. Clarke, Yvette, can I borrow $20? Okay. But you see me 3 weeks from now and on your mind, right here in the center of your forehead, you're thinking about that $20. You're thinking if I am ever going to pay you that money again. So, now my influence as it relates to being a ``Member of Congress'' has been altered a little bit because you're now judging my ability to handle my own finances. We make the same money and all that kind of stuff, and you're saying, why does he have to borrow $20, and, better yet, has no real will or desire to pay me back? So that's where we are right now as it relates to the country. I think that people need to pay very close attention to that chart. And that was just updated in December of last year. 
   What's left out of Bush's budget? The cost of the war beyond 2009. I think that's very, very important because when you look at this cost of the war, it is not included, and budget analysts have said that it will be $489 billion over the next 5 years. But then again, the President says he is going to balance it very soon. 
   The AMT, which is alternative minimum tax reform, beyond 2008 is not there. That means that those middle-class families that you're not even recognizing in the President's budget, the spending policy details and beyond of 09 as relates to discretionary is not there. So it's kind of like saying we're going to balance the budget, but we're going to leave major ingredients out to be able to balance it and show how we're going to do it. 
   The President may only have one more year in office, but the responsibility as chief executive officer goes beyond that to be able to set the stage. What you want to do when you come into a job or you're leaving a job, just for anyone, if you're leaving a job, what do you do? You get everything in order for the next person to come in and to be able to have something to work with when he or she gets there. I think that it's important that the President does that. You're talking about the chief executive of the United States of America. 
   So look at what he was left with, a $128 billion surplus. And look what he is proposing to leave for the next woman or man to take office. So he had a very ideal situation. And now I'm not blaming this on the President, I'm just saying the Republican majority that we're trying to work with to get out of it now proposing to leave for the next woman or man that deficit. 
   So when we look at the President's proposed deep cuts and key priorities, I want to make sure that every law enforcement officer, which I used to be a State trooper, Ms. Clarke and Members, when you look at the COPS program, that's the Community Oriented Police, these are your bicycle patrol, these are your individuals that prevent crime, don't show up after it's done, but prevent it, and provide other alternatives to youth so that they don't get into trouble. The President cuts that 100 percent. And so when you look at that in the 08 budget, and what we fought for here, we started out with $587 million, I think it's important that everyone understands that that has been cut 100 percent. 
   Weatherization, and this is important in Ms. Clarke's area especially. This is the home heating and all the things that our seniors and financially challenged folk need, 100 percent cut. When you look at Department of Homeland Security, State first responder grants, 78 percent cut. First responders, police officers, pay attention to what I'm saying because I want to make sure when folks around here are ho-humming and talking about, well, you know, I'm in support of the present situation as it relates to the White House, I want you to pay attention. This is not my budget. This is the President's budget that I'm talking about here that is not reflecting the priorities of the American people. 
   The EPA clean-up for water grants, 21 percent cut. When we look at community development block grants, these grants build fire stations, they build community centers that allow local government to be able to do something with Federal dollars for the betterment of their community, a 20 percent cut. And the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which is again for those that are financially challenged in the country, they're receiving these deep cuts. 
   I'm coming in for a landing here and I know, Ms. Clarke, you're going to take it home for me. What Bush inherited and what Bush is leaving behind. I started to tee that up, and that's a golf term, before I got to this chart. A record $1.6 trillion surplus. $400 billion annual deficits. You've got to look at it from this standpoint, and this is available from that Web site I gave you. On track to pay down all publicly held debt when he came in. Exploiting debt burden, short term, so that folks can understand what's going on. The strongest economy in three decades. Economic slowing down sharply, on comparisons. When you look at a robust job growth, and then also when you look at what Bush is leaving for the next person, the weakest job growth since the Hoover administration. 
   I think when you look at this, I am teeing this thing up, and the way I'm trying to line it up, and Ms. Clarke is going to share with us, also, is the fact that the only way we can bring about change is in a bipartisan way that Democrats and Republicans work together and do what we did in the economic stimulus plan. Everyone didn't get what they wanted, but the American people are going to be the short-term winners of being able to receive those dollars and being able to make ends meet. And it was an emergency situation. But I think as it relates to our fiscal situation, that is an emergency. And I think it is something that so many folks should be able to pay attention to. 
   The costs that weren't there, as I turn it over to Ms. Clarke, the $187 million that was left out of the President's budget. Also alternative minimum tax costs not included, some $408 billion over the next 5 years. The costs for the war not included, $489 billion over the next 5 years. 
   Again, all of this information is on 
   majorityleader.gov ``budget clearing house'' for you to see this information, Democrat, Republican, individuals that are concerned about what's going on here in Washington. 
   Ms. Clarke. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Ms. Clarke, you are a proud member of the 30-Something Working Group. 
   And, Mr. Speaker, as I mention a lot on the floor, we just don't come to the floor and say, hey, let's go to the floor and talk to our colleagues, let's give a floor speech. Actually, there are is number of meetings that take place in gathering this information to make sure that it is factual. And I think the reason why we are a solid tree in the forest, the 30-Something Working Group, on both sides of the aisle and dealing with the executive branch is that we do our homework. We don't just come to the floor to say things that we think sound good. It's actually something backed up by fact, not fiction. And I think it's important. If we were to play more in the fact versus fiction arena, I think we would get a lot more done here in Washington, DC. 
   Some of the things that we talked about in the stimulus package, just to recap, are things that are not there. There were some unemployment issues that folks wanted in there. There were some infrastructure issues and putting Americans to work, need it be building bridges or building roads or what have, to put Americans to work. 
   Also, there was a great discussion about green collar jobs. When you talk about green collar jobs, a lot of folks hear that out in the political world, but I don't think people really break it down to what it really means. And those jobs where we can reduce energy costs in many of our communities. For instance, if you have a flat or an angled roof, trying to put sod on the top, seal it off and put sod on the top to bring that heating and also cooling cost down, that will be a green collar job. That won't be an overseas job. That will be a job where someone could have dropped out of high school or graduated from high school, those that went on and received a 4-year education, those who went on to a master's, doctorate's, architect's, all of these folks will be employed through those kinds of efforts. 
   We have had an economy, Mr. Speaker and Ms. Clarke, that has been really based on borrowing, when you think about it. The economy has been set towards your taking out that second mortgage to keep the economy going, cutting interest rates to encourage more borrowing. Back in the old school not too far along, I remember when folks wouldn't buy a car unless they could pay for it. Now it's just common to say what's that interest rate, or is this the rebate I get back from the company? And then now I'm all into this thing for 5 or 6 years, and in some instances for some Americans so they can have transportation to move their kids around and make it to their job, 9 years. I have some constituents that are out there for 9 years on a car loan. So it's a serious situation, and it is something that is an accepted practice now. 
   When you have a home, of course, getting a loan, you know you will get some equity. Hopefully, that value will go up. But because of the economy, because of the slowdown in the housing market, values are not going up on homes. So some people are losing, and that's the reason why we have this whole mortgage piece. Folks got excited again with subprime mortgages, getting people into homes that they couldn't afford, and we are in this situation on a borrowed economy. So I think it's important to be able to break that, to be able to have an economy based on jobs, not borrowing. 
   And that's the reason why it's important that folks pay very close attention on whom they elect to be the next President of the United States, that they pay very close attention to those they have already elected to be able to govern here in this House and in the Senate, because you shouldn't forestall this off to January of next year when the next President, he or she, raises their hand on the west side of the Capitol and swear to uphold the Constitution of the United States. We know that the President sets forth the budget. We know we also have a say here in the House. The Senate has a say. We should exercise that. 
   I think, Ms. Clarke, your presentation was right on target. And I'm glad you said that I was being kind, because I am glad that Brooklyn is represented once again, making sure that people know what they need to know. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, we're going to continue to work on this issue of the budget. We want to come back and get into further detail as it relates to incentives that are out there for small businesses and also for families that are eligible for rebates, working families, and also continue to shed light on the Bush tax cuts that are out there. I think it's important that people pay very close attention. How did we get to those recordbreaking deficits, giving people tax breaks that they didn't ask for. And that is not turning over into the economy, because if it was turning over into the economy, we would not have had to pass a stimulus package. We wouldn't be on the floor talking about some of the issues that we are facing right now. 
   So we are about solutions. That's why we come to the floor this time of night, with the Democratic majority that's willing to work in a bipartisan way with the Republican minority to be able to do what's best on behalf of the American people. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, we would like to encourage the Members, if they have any comments or anyone has any comments based on the presentation tonight, to e-mail us at 30SomethingDems@mail.house.gov. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, it was an honor addressing the House once again. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to address the House once again. I just have come to the floor on behalf of the 30-something Working Group. As you know, and as the Members know, we work daily and weekly on issues that are facing the American people and also to not only inform Members of Congress but also allow the American people to get a closer glimpse of what is happening here in the Capitol dome and what is not happening here under the dome. 
   I am proud to report that there were a couple of days, we only worked 3 days last week, or 4, to allow the minority party to have their retreat. During that time, Speaker Pelosi and a number of other chairmen traveled to Iraq and Afghanistan to visit our troops and also our commanders in the field. 
   I can share with you that the trip will be talked about a little further by the Speaker tomorrow, but it is very, very important because it is the number one thing that is facing the Nation right now, and that is war in Iraq and also in Afghanistan. 
   Last week we spoke or talked here on the floor about the importance of the President's State of the Union, what was said and what was not said. There was some level of focus on the fact that Katrina was not mentioned not one time during the President's State of the Union, with me being from a hurricane State and representing a district that is constantly hit by hurricanes and natural disasters, just being one season away. Katrina, noted as one of the worst natural disasters of our time and one of the worst responses by this Federal Government, did not receive even a mention from the President of the United States. 
   I can say that there are several Members here in Congress that continue to be concerned about Katrina and the area of housing and follow-through and preparedness on behalf of our first emergency responders, or that they have the tools to respond, but making sure that FEMA has the proper oversight to be able to carry out the tasks needed in the event of a natural disaster or terrorist attack. 
   One other thing I think is important to be able to identify is veterans were not pointed out in this State of the Union. Looking at Katrina and the State of the Union, we must come to grips with there are two hard realities. One, if we have a natural disaster or a planned terrorist attack that takes place in this country, is the Federal Government ready to respond, especially on behalf of the executive branch? That question is still left unanswered. 
   At the same time, when we start looking at issues of veterans, looking at our troops, our men and women coming home, what will be the state of affairs on behalf of those veterans? 
   I am saying all of this to line up the debate that is going to take place after this week when we pass the continuing resolution that will be on the floor on Wednesday of this week, of what is going to happen the following week after that when the President sends his budget to Congress. 
   It is important within that budget to embrace some of the values of the American people and even legislation that we have filed in the 110th Congress and also that was filed in the 109th Congress.     
   I think it is important, also, to outline the fact that Americans continue to disapprove of the direction that the President is heading in dealing with the troop escalation in Iraq. I will be looking forward to hearing more about the Speaker's trip not only tomorrow in her press conference but also when she shares not only with the Democratic Caucus but with this House of Representatives. 
   And to see after the State of the Union, the President's polling numbers drop even to another low. What I understand from some reports, as low as 30, 28 percent. I know the President is not going to win a popularity contest, but I think it is important to be able to follow the will and desire of the American people and on behalf of the Congress. 
   Also, I took the opportunity today, Mr. Speaker, before coming to the floor, to take a look at what congressional leaders are saying, not just on the Democratic side of the aisle but even on the Republican side of the aisle, and there is a great debate that is going on. I pull here the Congressional Daily AM, which pretty much any staffer or Member of Congress involved in the process here in Washington, D.C., can pick it up and find out what is going on throughout the whole week; and on a number of the issues that are going to face the President, some of his strongest supporters here in Congress are disagreeing with him at this point. I think this could only boil down to Members of Congress using common sense and standing up on behalf of their constituents, either it be an entire State, if you are a Senator, or Member of Congress that represents a district. I think it is important that we exercise those values. 
   There will be an up-or-down vote on how the Senate feels about the troop escalation in Iraq; and I believe, reading here, that the Democratic leader, Mr. Reid, has said that that vote will be taken and that there will be a number of Republicans that are going to have to take that vote because there are going to be 21 seats to defend in the Senate in the 2008 elections. 
   Now, saying that, Mr. Speaker and Members, this is not about politics. This is about standing up on behalf of the American people. I think Senator Webb said it best, Mr. Speaker and Members, that if the President doesn't want to lead us in the right direction, then we need to show him the way, something along those lines. And I think it is important on behalf of the men and women that are in harm's way now and the fact that we have oversight as the legislative body in this three-branch government that we exercise our rights in this. 
   I want to read just a little bit here, continue from page 1 over to page 2: ``Warner's opposition to sending more troops was a heavy blow to the White House and administrative officials that hoped that the former Senate Armed Services chairman, one-time Navy Secretary would help convince colleagues to support the plan.'' I think it is important that the Senator and past chairman of that committee stand up on behalf of the American people in what is right, and I commend that on a bipartisan basis. 
   I think the American people and Members here in the House know exactly where Democrats stand on this issue of making sure that we bring about the kind of oversight but at the same time not just standing by and saying, well, the President is Commander in Chief; and he is making all the decisions. 
   I see my good friend, Congressman Murphy, is here. 
   If this was left up to politics, then we would just stand back and allow the President to continue to do what he is doing, and then we could have Ground Hog Day all over again, as we had in November, Democrats continuing to gain power because of the lack of leadership on behalf of the Republican leadership to stand up to the President of the United States. 
   But this is not about politics. This is about protecting the American people. This is about making sure that their will and desires are represented here in the people's House, in the U.S. House of Representatives, and I am pretty sure in the Senate. 
   And I am hoping that Democrats and Republicans will come together. As you know, Mr. Speaker and Members, here in the 30-Something Working Group, we embrace bipartisanship. We encourage bipartisanship. And the good thing about serving in an elected body is when you are right and you are on the side of the people, then you will return back to this body. If you are wrong, I used to play football down at Florida A&M, and we used to say the blind leading the blind and the two shall fall in the ditch. 
   So I think it is important that if we know that the American people are looking for a new direction versus the same direction that the President was taking in the 109th and 108th Congress, the wrong direction as it relates to Iraq, then that is a decision that every Member of Congress has to make. 
   Mr. Murphy, I am so happy that you are able to join us right now. I was just talking a little bit about what we finished off on last week. I talked about the fact that the Speaker was in theater, two theaters, in Iraq and also in Afghanistan. She just returned. She will be having a press conference tomorrow to talk about that a little more. The fact that on Wednesday we will be debating the continuing resolution and will be here on the floor. We will have a follow-up. 
   The President's budget will be handed down, I think, February 5, and some of the things which were not mentioned in the State of the Union, Hurricane Katrina and the victims of Hurricane Katrina and those Gulf States and also veterans that were left out of the State of the Union speech, which is going to be the next major wave that this country is going to be facing. How we are going to deal with the influx of new veterans coming into the system? And you pretty much heard the rest when you joined us. 
   But, welcome, and I yield to you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, I can tell you right now that a number of those issues that we have been talking about over the last couple of 30-Something hours that we have had here on the floor, and we thank the Democratic leadership for allowing us to have this, this is a very pivotal time. And I always share with the Members, even though we come to the capital, Mr. Speaker, from our districts on a weekly basis, work together here on this highly secured complex, the sun rises and sets every day in this beautiful capital city as we look over the capital Mall, and sometimes we take the very freedom that others have provided for granted and the opportunity, Mr. Speaker, to lead. 
   I think when historians start to look at this time when there are two wars going on, when you have millions of Americans without health care, when you have Gulf States that are there that feel that they have been forgotten, when you have veterans in the heartland of America and urban America still sharing some of the same wounds of a lack of leadership on behalf of the Congress, when you have veterans that are waiting 3 months to see the ophthalmologist, and when you have veterans clinics, VA hospitals and clinics, some clinics that are only open twice a month with a staff that rotates between that region that serves those veterans, people will look back and say, what happened in the 109th Congress or what happened in 110th Congress? Who stood up? Who stood up on behalf of the American people? 
   I have a great deal of respect for the President and the Commander in Chief, because he is the President and Commander in Chief, period. That is where it is. I am an American. I am not an enlisted man, but I am a Member of Congress, and I feel that the office deserves the respect. 
   I also believe that the American people deserve, Mr. Murphy, the same level of respect or greater. And the great thing about our democracy, like I said, we celebrate the very freedom that others have provided us. Some of those paid the ultimate sacrifice for that to happen. Some are sitting in wheelchairs right now. Some are forever mentally wounded or injured by the whole experience in providing the kind of freedom that they provided for us. Some of us take for granted that we have veterans, some that are going into VA hospitals that are sitting there practically all day for mental health counseling. Some are not eligible. Some are still fighting for full benefits. And over the years, I know of some of my constituents all the way from the Korean War who are still fighting for full benefits to be granted by the Veterans Administration, seeing these individuals in the state that they are in now, under years of a Congress that has not paid attention. 
   And just a little history lesson here, I will just share with you, the chairman, I believe, in the 109th, the 108th Congress, the Republican chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee went against the Republican leadership saying, I believe this is what we should do on behalf of the veterans. I believe that they deserve it. And he was removed as chairman of that committee. 
   Those days are gone now. We are in control. We are going to stand up on their behalf. 
   I am just saying I don't want to point out the fact that the President did not mention anything about veterans, just that it is a bad thing. It is a bad thing. I think he should have mentioned it, especially at a time of war. But I want to make sure those veterans know, Mr. Speaker, that we are not going to leave them behind, that we are not going to let their memory kind of fade off, their contributions fade off into the sunset because the President did not prioritize enough to even put two words together to thank our veterans, or just ``veterans,'' period, just one word. Because he left that out of his speech doesn't necessarily mean that this House of Representatives is going to leave those veterans behind. So that is the reason why we mentioned it. That is the reason why we raise up the Katrina victims and those families that are still living through the nightmare. 
   And, Mr. Murphy, we are not even focusing on the whole family experience. I mean, think of those families of veterans that are out there. And the reason why I am mentioning the whole mental piece is because, when I traveled to Iraq, I can tell you I used to be a State trooper. I have seen some things in my 5 years being with the Florida Highway Patrol. I am pretty sure in one tour in Iraq, a young man or young woman or a middle-aged gentleman or what have you, when you see that kind of activity, it is going to affect you. You are going to need the kind of the assistance that this country should provide because you volunteered, taking your words, to fight on behalf of this country. So it is very, very important. 
   And those families that are having to live with those family members that are trying to wrestle with those issues, some of those issues don't make the local news, but they live it. Children are subjected to it, and many of our veterans need counseling when they come back.     
   And that is one of the hidden issues that is in this whole issue as we start talking about not leaving our veterans behind. We have plans to do that. We started this discussion just talking about the President's budget, about making sure that this is reflected in the President's budget. 
   Before I yield back to you in like 30 seconds, the President is going to go to Illinois tomorrow, and he is going to be in New York after that, visiting, pushing his economic plan. I can tell you right now, I wish I had an envelope, but I remember Johnnie Carson used to hold an envelope to his head and say a word, and I would say make tax breaks permanent for the superwealthy. 
   You know, I am pretty sure that is somewhere in that envelope. Even though we are going to go around, we are going to go to Caterpillar in Illinois and talk about trade and how the economy works, and then he is going to go over to New York and talk a little bit about the economy and how strong, this, that and the other. But in the end game, it is going to be about protecting the very individuals that have been rewarded and protected at a time of war, to make it permanent, so that the middle class will not have the benefits that they need. 
   So we highlight these things as a forecast of saying that there is some room for the American people, everyday Joe and Sue, and those individuals that are punching in and punching out every day, for those individuals that are trying to make it to the next level that there is something there to assist them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, that is an outstanding segue to even talk about what has passed this floor already. You mentioned many of those measures. Eighty percent of the American people, overwhelmingly, Mr. Speaker, feel that the first 100 hours here in the U.S. House of Representatives have been very fruitful and have put forth a great surge of support and hope on behalf of everyday working Americans. 
   Speaking of the minimum wage, I understand that it is up for consideration in the Senate next week, hopefully next Tuesday. I know there are some discussions an $8 billion possible cost for tax breaks for businesses within that. I know that there will be some sort of discussion between the finance Chair in the Senate and Mr. Rangel over here in the House, Mr. Speaker, from Ways and Means. 
   We are going to continue to have hearings on the economy. We are going to talk about globalization tomorrow in the committee, I believe at 10 a.m., over in the Longworth Building. We are going to the effects of it, how does it deal with the American worker, how do we benefit here. And that is going to be a great discussion for us to continue to have, especially with the President moving around and speaking to different groups about trade. 
   I think it is also important as we start to look at this issue of the minimum wage that we keep at the forefront. So I want to make sure that the Members stay engaged; I want to make sure that the American people stay engaged and informed on what is happening. 
   I think another issue that is coming up and I mentioned it a little earlier, on Wednesday, we are going to be dealing with the continuing resolution. I can tell 
   you, Mr. Speaker, some of the things that were mentioned in the State of the Union, it is interesting what we have already incorporated into the House. 
   Democrats led the way in making sure that we adopt pay-as-we-go rules. Democrats led the way by saying that there will be no earmarks in this continuing resolution that will come to the floor on Wednesday. And we talk about earmarks. And we are bringing about earmark reform. 
   But earmarks in some areas, especially when you look at the bad situation that the country is in right now, this does not go away. I mean, we are continuing to hold this chart up. I just want to make sure that the American people and Members understand that we had very little to do with the situation of the $1.05 trillion that has been borrowed from foreign nations, and more than has been borrowed over 224 years with 42 Presidents and a number of Congresses in between, of $1.01 trillion. 
   We did not just get there. We got there by giving unaffordable tax breaks that we could not afford to the superwealthy, giving away tax breaks to individuals who did not ask for it. So that just does not go away. 
   There is a lot of work between making sure that we are able to do what this Democratic Congress has done in balancing the budget and taking us into surpluses versus what the Republican Congress has done in taking us backwards. 
   Mr. Speaker and Mr. Murphy, we are joined by my good friend from Ohio (Mr. Ryan). Mr. Ryan, we have been talking about a number of issues surrounding not only the Speaker's visit to Iraq and Afghanistan with some other Democratic leaders and also chairmen, but also talking about the issue of the veterans not being mentioned in the State of the Union, nor the Gulf States. But we said we are not going to leave them behind. So we gave an update on the minimum wage. We are happy to hear from you, sir. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Ms. Wasserman Schultz, I think it is important, and Mr. Murphy and Mr. Ryan, that everybody understand the reason we are here. We are going to play the legislative role. We talked about the lights being turned on in some of these committee rooms. And I was sitting here kind of looking through a few things, and I grabbed this February 5 edition of Time magazine, and it talked about, Madam Speaker, this upcoming Time I just received it in the mail, only 648 days until the election, why so many candidates are jumping in so early. And it talks about this being the most open Presidential race since 1928. 
   There is some interesting comments in here and obviously editorials, but I think that you see so many people getting involved because they see a vacuum here, a vacuum of the fact that things are not happening the way that it should happen. And Ms. Wasserman Schultz alluded to the fact that, being lap dogs, we sometimes say here on the 30-something Working Group rubber-stamp Congress, what have you, of the 109th Congress. We don't want to be that. 
   I ran into one of my Republican colleagues in the tunnel walking from the Cannon building over to the House today for a vote and I asked how is a certain piece of legislation. And she responded, well, you know, I have a post office bill. I am not going to belittle, I have done a post office bill before; it is good to identify outstanding Americans. But I just want to make sure that people understand, even here we have what we call suspension bills. Those are bills that we all agree on but it has to be passed by the Congress, Madam Speaker. 
   But what is happening now that has not been happening, I go back to, I alluded to this earlier, reading is fundamental. We know that some people here in Washington, D.C. don't bother to read newspapers, things of that nature; but we will leave that for another day. Congress Daily A.M., National Journal. And I just want to read what is going to happen tomorrow; today is Monday, what is going to happen on Tuesday. I can tell you, usually this would not be printed in this Congressional Daily Weekly because committees didn't meet. The Foreign Affairs Committee only had one hearing on Iraq in the 109th Congress; thus far, Mr. Lantos has had five hearings, and we are not even past the first month of the new Congress. This is still January. 
   Let's see what is happening tomorrow. Armed Services Committee is going to have a hearing on Afghanistan security and stability. Armed Services is going to also have a subcommittee hearing on military personnel. The Budget Committee will meet on the economic outlook of the country in full committee hearing. Education and Labor on generic discrimination of workers. That is happening. That is a subcommittee hearing that is taking place. Energy and Commerce will also have a hearing on the National Laboratory Security, Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee. Oversight Government Affairs and Reform Committee is going to have a climate change politics hearing; that is a full committee hearing. Science and Technology, Fuels, Infrastructures, Research and Development. That is a subcommittee on Energy. Transportation and Infrastructure, Coast Guard deepwater system, going to have a subcommittee. That is the Coast Guard and Maritime Subcommittee hearing that will take place. Transportation Infrastructure, Railroads, Pipelines, Hazardous Materials, that is a subcommittee hearing that is going to take place. Ways and Means, trade and globalization at 10:00 tomorrow, full committee hearing. Ways and Means once again, subcommittee will be meeting. 
   I just wanted to point that out, Madam Speaker. If we were in the 109th Congress and the 108th Congress, we wouldn't even be here right now, Monday. We wouldn't even be here on a Monday. People are paying our salary to legislate and to bring about the kind of oversight. 
   I just want to point that out, because Mr. Ryan spoke a little earlier of the fact that we are actually doing, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, what we told the American people we would do, Mr. Murphy, and that is lead. Six in 2006. Oh, it is a big dog and pony. It is not. We are giving the American people exactly what we told them we would do, which is accountability. And that is a paradigm shift for politicians here in Washington, D.C. I yield to Ms. Wasserman Schultz. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I am with you and the 40-something new Members of Congress. 
   Madam Speaker, it was an honor to come before the House once again. I want to thank the Democratic leadership for allowing us to have the hour, and we yield back the balance of our time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS REPORT ON THE ANNUAL LEGISLATIVE CONFERENCE -- (House of Representatives - October 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so much, Madam Chair. And thank you, Ms. Lee, for saying thank you and showing your appreciation. 
   I know we have some Members that want to speak, and Madam Chair, I'm going to have to leave the floor soon, so I just want to mention two or three things. 
   One, I want to thank those great Americans that participated in our conference. And I think that some of the brain trusts that were held, from what I'm hearing from e-mails and telephone calls, were some of the best that we've had. That means hats off to those that put on those brain trusts and issue forums; that means one of the 43 members of the Congressional Black Caucus, individually they were able to do it. 
   And we were also able to shed light on ``Unleashing Our Power.'' It wasn't just a title of members of the Congressional Black Caucus. It was for those participants, black, white, male and female, that attended the conference, to leave empowered to go back to their State, back to their local community, and even in their own home, and unleash their power as it relates to education, health care, so on and so on. 
   One thing that I can tell you that was very, very good this year, and we were able to work very hard, is making a lot of young people feel welcome with our Emerging Leaders Initiative. Our apprenticeship program has been a really successful program. We had a lot of people that participated. We had high school students that participated; we had college and recent graduates that came to this conference. And I look forward, Madam Chair, to future years where we can be able to continue to have a successful weekend. This was obviously a large fund-raiser for our scholarship program, for our internship program. These are kids that wouldn't ordinarily have an opportunity to be a part of anything here in Washington, D.C., to serve as interns in Members' offices or committees. 
   So everything happened the way that it should. There are always things that we can work on to make it better next year. But as it relates to the substance, Madam Chair, I am so pleased that people walked away with more knowledge than when they walked in and were inspired by what they heard. And I took the opportunity to go into Mr. Payne's Africa brain trust. Very powerful. He had heads of state come in to address people who needed to know more about the African countries that are there. 
   So with that, Madam Chair, thank you. I want to thank you. We co-sponsored the ALC a couple of years ago together, co-chaired it. I want to thank you for your leadership, and thank you for hosting this hour. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP CONTINUED -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I started off the last hour talking about the fact that tomorrow or the next day that Democrats, Republicans would be able to show their true colors as it relates to the redeployment of troops, something we have already voted on and the President vetoed. 
   I think it's important that Members point to H.R. 2956 that will be on this floor in the next 48 hours, that will say responsible redeployment of troops. Embodied in that bill will be recommendations made not only by military advisers and those that are not longer a part of this, because as you know in the Pentagon, you say something different than what the Secretary under old Secretary Rumsfeld, back in the days, when all of those things took place and you made a career decision, if you had an idea that makes sense, and said, excuse me, sir, I know you think you have all the ideas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP CONTINUED -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. But it's alive and well. What we are learning more than ever now, having hearings on Iraq, people coming forth with some of the things that have us in the situation where we are now, mounting evidence of failed policy is the justification for this redeployment of troops. 
   Also, the issue, as it relates to the surge again, the Democratic Congress passed a nonbinding resolution saying that we disagree with the escalation of troops, that we need an escalation in diplomacy. We needed to think smarter. 
   We talked about the lack of coalition just a few minutes ago. We used to hear about the coalition. It got down to the single digits. It got outright embarrassing for the administration, so they stopped talking about it. 
   The mounting criticism of the failed Iraq policy, not only by Members of the military, but also the American people and Members of this Congress and some Republicans in the Senate and some Republicans here in the House and definitely a number of Democrats and retired general after retired general calling for a new direction. So this is what it's going to come down to. 
   It's going to come down to Members taking out their card that we vote with, and they are going to have to take it out. They are going to have to find one of these meters or machines here, and they are going to have to put it in there. They are going to have to vote ``yes'' or ``no.'' Do they want to vote for staying the course with the President and all of the slogans that they come up with and that they poll, or are they going to vote for a new direction and doing exactly what the American people wanted us to do? That's the question. 
   I look forward to coming back to the floor, not only with Mr. Murphy, but also with Mr. Ryan, talking about the issues that we are facing. The good thing about being in the majority, and I can tell you from someone that has been in the minority before in this House, is that we can bring ideas to the floor and actually see them voted on that we have not had before. 
   Mr. Ryan came up with a very important point, the fact that Republicans had a number of years to do what they said that they want to do. No one stood in their way. They could have done it. They didn't do it. They had the opportunity to do it. We have asked them to be a part of that opportunity that we are working on. 
   I am glad we had 16 additional minutes so we would have an opportunity to get this information out. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP CONTINUED -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I am done. I just want to thank you and Mr. Murphy for coming down tonight. I look forward to the next 48 hours, what kind of leadership will be shown on the minority side of the ball. We need them to be a part of this change in the new direction that we are moving in. But as the Democrats, with the slim majority that we do have, we are going to give the American people what they want, and that is leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to address the House. And I hope the Members of the House had a great 4th of July break as we celebrate another birthday of this great country. And the great thing about it is you're allowed to say what you want to say  and feel what you want to feel and express yourself in any way that you would like to. 
   Mr. Speaker, as you know, the 30-Something Working Group, we come to the floor to share with not only the Members of Congress, but also with the American people, the importance of good policymaking, and also making sure that we're factual in what we say and what we do here. 
   It was quite interesting. I was sitting here reading my notes from the information that we pulled together to come to the floor. We're going to talk about Iraq tonight, but I'm going to talk a little bit about SCHIP because we spent a lot of time and many hours on this floor fixing what the Republican Congress left for dead, really. We had to come in, the Democratic majority, with the leadership of Speaker  Nancy Pelosi, and save the SCHIP program in many States. 
   A number of Republican Governors wrote that were in a crisis mode of their program being shut down in the State of Florida, health care for children. In Washington, many people talk about SCHIP. I'm so glad to have the chairman here of the subcommittee that deals with this particular issue. And it goes to show you, here on the Democratic side we have great responsibility when it comes down to fixing and cleaning up the mess that was left from the 109th Congress and the Republican-controlled Congress and special interests got what they wanted. 
   I think it's also important to note that a supermajority of Republicans voted against the continuing resolution to be able to save the SCHIP program in many States to provide health care for children. And now we're going through the policy move that we have to take to be able to make sure that SCHIP is here for every child and to make sure that they have the kind of health care that they deserve. 
   So I'm so glad Mr. Pallone from the Garden State is here because he is the chairman that's dealing with this very issue. I'm a member of the Ways and Means Committee that is also going to be having a discussion on this issue. And I can tell you, as we start to move forth and uncovering and unearthing some of the injustices that have taken place in the past, and we have Governors on our side, we have children advocates on our side, we have those that believe in true health care on our side in saying that this is not a last-day-at-school kind of syndrome that we see the President and others going through. And I think something is about to happen that is really great and is going to secure and make sure the children have the kind of health care they deserve. 
   Mr. Pallone, I would be more than happy to yield to you at this time because I know without notes that you can talk about this because you and your staff have been working on this issue and members of your committee have been working on this issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, if you would yield for a second. 
   You know, I was sitting here. And the great thing about being a Member of Congress, and I thank the people from the 17th Congressional District in Florida for sending me here, it's almost like, coach, get me the ball. I wanted to say, will the gentleman yield? Because it's interesting that Georgia was on their knees with hands clasped saying, please help us. Children are about to run out of health care insurance, and we're about to have a crisis. And it was the leadership of this Congress, the Democratic Congress, that brought about that kind of change. That's why people wake up at 7 a.m. in the morning to go vote for representation. 
   So now we're down to politics, Mr. Speaker. And it's very unfortunate, politics is playing a role in the lives of our children, grandchildren, nieces and nephews that need health care. And this is for working folks. These are for folks who punch in and punch out every day, individuals that are struggling every day that are hoping that the government will stand for them. 
   So, Mr. Chairman, continue. I yield back. But I'm just saying if Florida was in the situation, I couldn't come down here to the floor and start knocking something that this Congress ran to the savior. And what we had to do, Mr. Chairman, was to couple it with a number of other things to get it to pass for the President not to veto it. And we're going to talk about that a little later, but I think that's very, very important. 
   I yield back, sir. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Imagine the line. Imagine a rural county. Imagine an urban county that I represent, everyone kind of diving into one or two locations to make it all happen. Why should we inconvenience those that are counting on their government to respond, especially on behalf of our children. 
   I'm glad you came down here tonight to have you here, the person that has the gavel in their hand, heard testimony from the States. I know you know what I'm saying. This is what you're doing and this is why we're here. And Americans voted for a new direction, and we're heading in that new direction. There are those that are Members of Congress that don't want to move in that new direction. And, Mr. Speaker, like I said, the great thing about our country is that we can disagree and you can voice your opinion and other ideas, but I think it's important also for the American people to get fact and not fiction. And that's what we're here about, and that's what it's all about. 
   You are always welcome, Mr. Chairman, to come down. I am a part of the ``something'' part of the 30-something. So you can join, and that caucus is growing. And the good thing about what we do here on the floor from those new Members of Congress, we call them ``majority makers,'' to those that have been here as long as you have been here, to see this process go full circle, 360 degrees, to be able to come to the floor at 11-something at night, to be able to set the record straight I think is important not only for Members of Congress, but also for the Congressional Record and for those individuals that are listening to the statements that are being made here on the floor that know better.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, I just want to thank you, definitely fresh out of the State legislature, for coming to this floor. I served in the legislature myself, and I can tell you that in Florida we enjoy the Federal assistance that is there. 
   Some folks, Mr. Speaker, speak of Medicare as socialized medicine. If you try to do away with Medicare right now and have new and great ideas that would limit access to clinics and what have you, I think you would have an uprising in this country as we look at providing better healthcare. 
   If I can, we came to the floor tonight, and I have my Iraq notebook with me, and I want to thank not only staff but the Democratic leadership for taking a forward lean, as we have done since we have been here in the control of the House, and the American people provided us with an opportunity to lead, to move this country in a new direction, and also move this issue of Iraq in a new direction. I just want to talk a little bit about the numbers, and I want this to sink in, because I want Members to know exactly what we are doing. 
   We have to create and we have to be about a major paradigm shift, I would say slash ``new direction,'' as it relates to Iraq. We know that the President has executive authority and he can veto. We know that the legislature, and when we say legislature, I started talking about States, I started talking about legislature, I would say the Congress, the legislative branch of government has the responsibility of policy and making sure that we pass legislation that will be helpful. 
   During the 4th of July break, which was a wonderful thing, you have an opportunity to go back to your districts and you have an opportunity to go to places where you can learn more, I actually went to Norfolk, Virginia, to the Naval facility there and spoke to a number of sailors and some marines and others that have been deployed before. I was there on a destroyer and also a submarine and also an amphibious vessel that moved marines into a forward area and had an opportunity to talk to a number of individuals over that weekend. 
   I left with the impression, Mr. Murphy, of them saying, if you want to help the troops, then stand up for us in the Congress and making sure we bring some sense to what we are doing. 
   Now, some of the bloodiest weekends in Iraq took place during the 4th of July break, and a number of Iraqis have lost their lives and they have a number of civil war conflicts that are going on there. Also a number of marines, soldiers and others, even civilians, lost their lives. 
   I think it is important as we look at this and we go through a forward lean, I just want to capture this moment from the Congressional Research Service, Mr. Speaker, the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service, which is a nonpartisan organization within the Congress. These are individuals that are Ph.D.'s and those that count the numbers and really give the Americans an objective view of what the real picture is. 
   Let's talk about cost here for a minute. You heard Mr. Pallone, the Chair of a subcommittee dealing with the children's health program, say over 5 years it would take $50 billion to be able to provide healthcare for children. Let's look at these numbers. 
   Per year in Iraq, and this is the chart that I have here, $120 billion a year. I am going to even further break that down to $10 billion a month and change. These are not my numbers. This is the Congressional Research Service numbers. Per week, $2.3 billion a week in Iraq. $2.3 billion. This is just Iraq. We are not talking about Afghanistan. Per day, $329 million and change. I am not even giving you the change. Per hour, $13 million. That is every hour in Iraq, $13 million. 
   Think about what we can do here domestically. I am talking to the mayors of our cities and our towns. I am talking to commissioners that would like to resolve some issues and want some sort of Federal assistance in doing that. I am talking to the citizen that is wondering why something is shut down in their community for a lack of funding. 
   Per minute, $228,000. That is per minute. $228,000. That is more than many Americans make in 5 years, Mr. Murphy, a minute. That is what is happening in Iraq right now. Per second, $3,816. Some may say $4,000 a second. 
   You look at the Forbes' richest, most wealthy Americans, they are not even doing that. You have companies that wish they could make $3,816 a second. This makes Oprah, her income, look very small. This makes some of the new people that are there, the President or the used-to-be chairman of Microsoft, look very small when you look at these numbers. But you have to look at this issue for what it is. These are the dollars that we are spending. 
   Now, who is standing in front of us and making new policy changes here? I think it is important, and I think we are going to have a gut check here, and I want to make sure that Americans know exactly and the Members know. Because many Members, they go back home and they say, I did not quite understand that. I am sorry. It went over my head. I didn't understand what happened, when a constituent may walk up to them. 
   This week in the House we will have an opportunity to reaffirm our support and move this Iraq debate in a new direction. Responsible redeployment of our troops. We talk about responsible redeployment. We are talking about a bill that Chairman Ike Skelton is going to bring to this floor tomorrow, or sometime this week, where Democrats and Republicans will have an opportunity on the record to vote once again as it relates to redeployment. 
   The Responsible Redeployment Act, H.R. 2956. It requires the responsible redeployment of U.S. troops beginning within 120 days of enacting and ending by April 1st, 2008. I think it is important that everyone understands that a supermajority, 70 percent, a supermajority of Americans believe that we should be out of Iraq. 
   It requires the President to publicly justify the post-deployment missions for the U.S. military in Iraq with a minimum number of troops necessary to carry out those missions. This is not saying that we are going to take all of the troops out of Iraq, but what it is saying is those troops that are in harm's way, doing the door-to-door, doing all of these things in the middle of a civil war that Iraqi troops should be responsible for, there are a number of people that are saying, you know, they are not quite ready. 
   But, meanwhile, back at the ranch, I know every Sunday on CNN they have a report talking about what happened in Iraq that week. I think I have seen too many flag-draped coffins. I think I have talked to too many spouses and family members that are saying, what are you going to do and how are you going to do it and how are you going to stand up? 
   Chairman Ike Skelton is beyond this. He is what one may say is an individual that solely has the troops in his heart and in his mind. And this will be a product of not only him, but many Members of Congress. So Members will get an opportunity to vote.  
   Now, Mr. Murphy, before I yield to you, I think it is important that we show who is standing in the schoolhouse door here. I would ask for not only the Members, but also the American people to go to the White House website if you want some information. 
   Members of the Republican minority, thanks to the American people, on March 29 of 2007, stood with the President after we moved the bill through this Congress that would move the policy as it relates to Iraq in a new direction. It would bring more accountability as it 
   relates to profiteering, more accountability as it relates to how our troops are being deployed based on what the President says that he thinks is right. It is bringing democracy to it. 
   When we passed that bill, it passed both the House and Senate, I can say that the Democratic majority voted in the affirmative with a few Republicans, and it went to the White House. And before that bill could be carried to the White House, the President said that he would veto it. 
   I want you to take a look at this picture here, because I think it is very very important. Pictures speak 1,000 words. You have all Republicans, the minority, that are standing behind the President saying stand with the President and we will not allow the President to be overridden, for there to be an override of his veto. 
   I think it is important for us to pay very close attention to it, because my message to those that were on the steps of the White House, who met with the President, who had some sort of discussion with the President, that have said ``we are going to make sure that the President's will is not overridden,'' well, I want to ask, how many times will the Republican minority go down and stand with the President in front of the will of the American people? 
   That is going to happen this week, Mr. Speaker, and I am glad that Speaker  Nancy Pelosi has said we are willing to take the fight on behalf of the American people to the executive branch and to those Members of Congress who believe that we should be ``staying the course'' or continuing to do the same thing expecting different results. 
   There are a lot of things that are going on in Iraq that are not in the control of the American Congress and executive branch and those that they elected to represent them here in Washington, DC. But what we do have control over as it relates to the policy and as it relates to the will of the American people and the troops. One person said if you want to help the troops, get us out of Iraq. If you want to help the troops. 
   Mr. Ryan and I in the 108th and 109th Congress heard all kinds of speeches here on this floor, Mr. Murphy, Members saying ``I support the troops.'' ``No, I support the troops more than you.'' ``No, let me take my shirt. Let me show you a tattoo I have on my shoulder saying I support the troops.'' 
   That is not what it is about. It is about policy. It is about manning up and womaning up and leadering up and standing up on behalf of these men and women that are in harm's way.     
   These are real families. We have to treat this issue as it relates to redeployment of troops in Iraq as though our children or our nephew or our cousin or our husband or wife, what have you, are in harm's way as we speak. Those that have a dot.mil address behind their e-mail address that are e-mailing us and are asking us to be leaders, I am glad that this House is moving in the direction, and the Senate is moving in the direction, and I commend those Senators that have come to the side of the American people saying enough is enough. The President can burn all kind of Federal jet fuel and fly throughout the country. He was in Cleveland talking about what we need to do. Enough is enough. The bottom line is that folks have to come to grips that this is a democracy. 
   The White House is under some sort of impression, I want to say impression. They believe if they were to come out at a press conference, if the President were to say the rain doesn't fall from the sky, it comes up from the ground to the sky, they believe many Americans would actually look outside to see if that is true. We know what is right and what is wrong. What is wrong is the fact that we can no longer stand idly by and let this happen. 
   The Democratic Congress has tried to make this happen. We need Republican support. We need the American people to call their Republican representative and say enough with this partisan stuff, let's move for our young men and women in harm's way. 
   I yield to Mr. Ryan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, the bottom line is that the President, and we have to talk about the student loan issue that he talked about earlier today, and I think it is important that we talk about that because again we had Members here talking about SCHIP and we were all once representatives in our States on the legislative end on the State level. But I think it is important for us to, and where is my red chart to talk about the debt. 
   We just had Mr. Pallone as the chairman of the subcommittee down here, and we have a proposal talking about $50 billion over the next 5 years. Let me say real quick, per year it is $120 billion in Iraq and climbing. I say that to a mayor or to a Governor, I  would like to have my hands on $120 billion that the Federal commitment has made. 
   Mr. Ryan, it is not the President, that is all too easy. The President is in his last leg of a swim meet here. He has the last day of school kind of syndrome. All of us know what the last day or last week of school felt like. I am about to leave the institution, and I don't have to worry about what is happening. 
   But guess what, it is not the last day of school for the American people and those that are in harm's way. We have a responsibility to stand for them. I am not going to just leave the President. I am going to say that those individuals on the Republican side of the aisle, not all of them, but a majority of them, are willing to stand with the President that ran this record debt up that we have now. A $1.19 trillion debt and climbing, done by the Republican majority in the 108th and 109th Congress and beyond, of rubber stamping what the President has done. 
   We all live the same kind of lives. We all understand our responsibility up here. But I tell you, to be able to move in a new direction in Iraq, it is going to take more than just Democratic majority Members, especially in the Senate, to be able to bring some real sense to this new direction in Iraq. The real issue is that there is a choice to be made. 
   Mr. Ryan, some of the Members on the Republican side used to laugh at us when we were on the floor. I see them in the hall and they are like, ``You all are funny. Do you really believe people are going to follow what you all are talking about if you are given the opportunity to lead?'' 
   Well, guess what, how do you like us now? People believe. Democrats, Republicans, Independents. And you know something, some people who voted for the first time in their lives who had given up on the political system, and I will be doggone if their vote goes in vain. I am telling you right now, we need Republican Members of this Congress to vote on behalf of our troops. 
   Want to help the troops? Vote for redeployment. You want to help the troops, vote for antiprofiteering legislation. You want to help the troops, when Mr. Murtha comes to this floor with an appropriations bill that is going to bring major sense as it relates to the appropriations in this war, then support that if you want to support the troops. 
   Mr. Ryan, I am going to yield to Mr. Murphy by saying this: As of July 11, today, the deaths in Iraq as it relates to U.S. military personnel, and this is not even counting those clandestine agents that are out there, those civilian folks, 3,609. That is as of 10 a.m. this morning. 
   Total number of wounded in action, returned to duty, 14,681. 
   Number of wounded that did not return to duty, 12,014 and climbing. 
   I want to say this is real. This is above and beyond Democrat-Republican politics, Independent politics, whatever the case may be. We are moving in the direction of redeployment of our troops and a new policy. The President can stand in the schoolhouse door all he wants to, but the bottom line is he is empowered by the Republican minority that are saying that we are not going to allow you to have enough votes to be able to override what the President is saying. That is where it comes down to it. 
   I can tell you, like I shared with some of my colleagues, you continue to follow the President on the old way, and I guarantee you, just like I said in the 108th Congress and 109th Congress, and I don't have a whole lot of say in what goes on in some of these districts because people have their own heart and mind. They read and they see. They see the people that are not coming back. People are being deployed. 
   They are not glad they are going. They are crying when people are going. Will I see my husband? Will I see my father again? What are we doing? What does this mean? We are in the middle of a civil war; what does that mean? Will my husband or wife be knocking down some door as we speak here on this floor, having Iraqis huddle in the middle of a room on a security mission that is necessary because the Iraqi government is not doing it, and those individuals will never forget that. And they are not doing it just because they feel like doing it; they are doing it because it is the mission. We support them in that mission, but the bottom line is we have to have a new attitude and new direction. 
   There are Iraqi troops that should be doing those house checks and taking that responsibility, and an Iraqi parliament that should be coming to work every day to make sure that they do what they do. It shouldn't be our people, and people know it. So the bottom line is, when you are in a place where you don't understand exactly where you should be, fall on the side of commonsense. That is all that I am saying. 
   Mr. Murphy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. The thing about it and the thing about what we work on and what we meet on, and after we leave the floor I need to talk to you even further about this issue, because, Mr. Speaker, the President was on the road and saying, well, I'm going to veto the interest rate cut that the Democratic Congress passed because it doesn't help enough needy kids that are presently in college. 
   Well, this is the same President who said we're going to be treated as liberators when we were in Iraq. 
   This is the same President that has said that investing in big oil will be able to assist us to be energy independent when big oil made nothing but profits after the White House meeting. 
   This is the same President that said he was going to treat anyone in the White House that outed an CIA agent in a way that they should be treated, and then later let that person off the hook through his executive power. 
   This is the same President that has said that we need to send an escalation of troops to Iraq and we'll see a safer Iraq; that we've seen otherwise, some 500-plus men and women in uniform that have lost their lives since that surge. 
   This is the same President that goes on and on and on talking about how he's going to increase Pell Grants when he hasn't done that. 
   This is the same President that said that 9/11, that we are going to implement this Department of Homeland Security and said there was no need to pass all of the 9/11 recommendations. That still hasn't made it to his desk yet, that we want to get passed, that this Democratic Congress passed. 
   This is the same President that told folks to go shopping after 9/11 when he had the opportunity to move this country in a new direction, bring us together, help our economy, and the Americans were ready to do what they needed to do. 
   And this is the same President saying I'm going to veto a bill that's going to cut student loan rates not only for students, I will go further as a parent to say, for parents and grandparents that are helping children that are now coming out of college that are more in debt now than ever because the Federal Government is not there for them. If we're not there for them, then the State government can't be there for them because they have to cut, and guess where the first place is they go. They go to students and cut back. 
   So I'm about full right now of the American spirit and say that I hope that our leadership here in the House, with the President, you spoke of politics saying it's a great thing to run on. I always said this whole Iraq issue, if we see more and more pictures like this, Republican leadership leading their caucus down to the White House saying we stand with the President and making sure that the Congress doesn't override his original thoughts or what he feels should be, the White House is not to be used as the Republican National Committee instrument or the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee. This is about the American people and what we do. 
   So, the President, this is his last day of school. This is the last month of school. He's about to move on. He's about to become a private citizen. Those of us that are in Congress, if the American people that allow us to come back after 2008, will be here to govern this country, and guess what, this is not the last day of school for Americans. 
   So, when we talk about cutting student loan rates in half and the President starts using all kinds of, I start to go back to the big oil argument. What,  did the banks have a special meeting at the White House, saying we can't allow this to happen; you got to stand in the schoolhouse door; and will they be able to motivate these Members to go back to the White House and say we stand with the President? How many times? 
   So, Mr. Speaker, I know that the bold leadership we have here in the House, if he vetoes this bill, which I don't want him to do, I hope he signs it, and we're able to provide the assistance to these individuals that are in all of our districts, Republican and Democrats. This is not for Democratic kids. This is for all kids, for all families, for all working people. If he does it, I hope that within the hour that he does it that we have something here on this floor, and we'll separate the Members from the followers here on both sides of the aisle. 
   And when we passed this bill, I know you brought this issue up, but when we passed this bill, there was 143 Republicans that voted against it, just enough to withstand. One, one over to be able to hold off a presidential override. That's a gut check there, Mr. Speaker. I wonder how many of those 143 are going to be with the President in not allowing American families to have a cut in financial aid. 
   I want their constituents to pay very close attention on whose side you're on. Are you on the bank's side or are you on the American people side? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to come before the House again. 
   The 30-Something Working Group, as you know, has been coming to the floor now in the 108th and 109th Congresses and now in the 110th Congress to share with the Members of the House and the American people information about what is happening here under the Capitol dome, and I am very excited to report that there is an awful lot that is happening. More work has been done as it relates to assisting the American people over the last couple of days or the last hours, which is historic in many ways, than happened in the entire 109th Congress. It was talked about, it was promised, but it never happened. So I am glad to come to the floor with my colleagues who will be joining me shortly. 
   I think it is very important, Mr. Speaker, to not only commend those that have been consistent on message, not only message, but action. I can tell you that hearing my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, you would think that they have been in the minority for the last 14 or 16 years, because they sound like all of a sudden they are ready to do something about the problems that are facing this country. 
   I can tell you also, Mr. Speaker, that the fact is that we moved in the right direction in securing this country and passing the 9/11 Commission recommendations, and, like we promised, Mr. Speaker, in the 109th Congress, the last Congress, we worked in a bipartisan way. When we passed that piece of legislation, we had not only overwhelming, full support from the Democratic side of the aisle but a high number of Republican Members joined Democratic Members in voting for those recommendations to be placed into law pass this House. 
   Today is a very historic, very emotional time for those of us that fought on behalf of Americans that punch in and punch out every day to be able to receive a hike in the minimum wage to $7.25. Again, we said we would work in a bipartisan way along with our Republican colleagues, and over 300 individuals voted for, including a number of Republicans, I think 80 or 81 Republicans, joined the entire Democratic Caucus who voted in the affirmative for an increase in the minimum wage to give the American worker a well-overdue raise. That will move on to the Senate and hopefully to the President's desk. 
   I think it is important, Mr. Speaker, to look at the way we have moved in the right direction on ethics, saying we are willing to hold this House to standards that the American people would like for us to be held to and to also have a committee that will review any question of conduct as it relates to any Member of the House and that will consider that in a bipartisan way and report back to the appropriate overseers of the House here so that people know that we have checks and balances. 
   Just mentioning those three items, Mr. Speaker, and looking at how Republicans have voted with Democrats because we have taken the lead to bring these issues to the floor, it is a perfect example of what we talked about for 3 years here on this floor. The good thing that I like about what we talk about and then what we do is the fact that we follow through, Mr. Speaker, on what we have shared, not only with the Members on the majority and the minority side, now the Democratic majority side, but what we would do if given the opportunity. I think the Members should pay very close attention, because the American people responded in a very positive way. 
   It has been said there will be mistakes made, and it will be painful in some instances when we look at PAYGO regulations that we have imposed on ourselves. That is another initiative that passed this floor, that we will not start a program or send money out of the door of the U.S. House of Representatives unless we can show how we can pay for it. 
   We know there are some war issues there and some other issues, but as it relates to what we call here on the floor, Mr. Speaker, regular order, where a Member files a bill and says I want to do X, Y and Z, and don't worry about it, we will borrow it from a number of the countries I have identified in the past that own a piece of the American apple pie. As we continue to move on, Mr. Delahunt, we want to start peeling these numbers off, showing how America is now starting to make itself whole as we start to pass policy. 
   I think it is also very, very important, Mr. Speaker, to note that there will be a lot of things said on this floor. That has been the case since the beginning of the country. That is a good part of our democracy. Members can come to the floor and say what they wish to say. They are representing their constituents back home, and their constituents every 2 years have an opportunity to vote if they want them to return back. 
   Mr. Delahunt, before I yield to you, I guess I would just like to put a word of caution out there. To those who feel they can come to this floor of the People's House and share information, to make an argument or an action or inaction sound appropriate, now, I know many of my friends on the other side, and I do call them friends, because we all are friends, we see each other, but we weren't elected to come up here and pat each other on the back and say ``I am more dedicated to you than I am to the folks back home or the American people.'' I will say this. We are all in the spirit of doing the right thing. 
   But I just want to caution, because I think what got the Republican majority in the 109th Congress and the Congresses before that in trouble was the fact that there was more allegiance to the Republican leadership. 
   When we start talking about these bipartisan bills, Mr. Delahunt, which I would like to do, I stood here at this podium, this mike on this floor a similar night several months ago, starting a couple of years ago, and said bipartisanship is only allowed if the majority allows it. 
   I didn't have a problem with the frontline or the everyday Republican Member of this Congress. I had a problem with the Republican leadership that led their caucus in the direction of special interests and in the direction opposite of what the American people said they wanted. 
   So what we are doing now is we are moving in the direction the American people wanted. They said they wanted ethics. We voted for it on the floor. We received Republican votes on those issues. 
   The American people said they wanted to raise the minimum wage. We voted here on this floor, and 80 or 81  Republican Members voted saying that they support it. 
   We voted to implement all of the 9/11 recommendations. We said that we would do it. Republicans on that side followed suit, many of them, and voted to secure America. 
   So when we move the embryonic stem cell legislation and prescription drugs, all of these issues are based on leadership. We start talking about a bipartisan spirit, and we will let the record, Mr. Ryan and Mr. Delahunt, reflect our intentions and what we want to do. 
   Yes, we are going to have some partisan votes in this House. But these are major issues. I don't care what anyone, any pundit, says, some Member going back home saying ``I voted against that.'' It is going to be hard for them to say they voted against the person that is making $5.15 an hour. ``You voted against that? Oh, you are real tough, Congressman.'' Goodness gracious. These are people who can't even afford to buy gas. 
   But we are not going to focus on that, Mr. Speaker. We are going to focus on the 80-plus Republicans and the entire Democratic Caucus that voted to give the American people a raise. 
   Mr. Delahunt, Uncle Bill, we are so happy, sir, that you are a part of the 30-Something Working Group. We are so happy that this is your inaugural night in the 110th Congress, where we are in the majority, your joining us here on this floor. 
   We talked about your contributions last night. We said that we have a Medicare recipient within our midst. We talked about individuals that are drawing down on one of the pensions that maybe you received in your long career of public service. But we appreciate the fact that you are continuing, and we said we will continue our commitment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Okay. A 33-year-old senior moment. 
   I just wanted to mention something real quick that I think is important.     
   There is going to be a lot of talk tomorrow. We are going to do some good legislation. We have stem cell research that is coming up, and we have negotiating as it relates to prescription drugs is coming up before the weekend. Something that is going to be common now, was uncommon in the 109th Congress, we are actually going to work a 5-day work week or a 4-day work week as it relates to the congressional calendar. 
   But I just want to mention something. I don't want us to leave this floor tonight unless we have an opportunity to talk about what the President's going to talk about an hour or so from now. I think it is important. I have served, Mr. Ryan and I have served on Armed Services in the last two Congresses; and you, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, have served here in the last Congress and now this Congress at war. 
   Mr. Delahunt, you were here when this House voted to give the President authority to go or not, what have you. And now we are after the election in November, the American people, everyone thought, Mr. Speaker, that the election was going to be about the economy. They thought it was going to be about health care. They thought it was going to be about whatever the issue may be. But it was about Iraq, and it was about the decisions that were made, and the lack thereof, out of this Congress of asking the questions and oversight. 
   Now what is going to happen, Members, you are going to have the Armed Services Committee, you are going to have the Defense Appropriations Committee, you are going to have the Government Operations Committee, you are going to have a number of committees that have oversight responsibility on the committee level, providing the oversight for this war. 
   Now the President is going to come out tonight and he is going to ask, he is going to say, I call it an escalation, he calls it something else, of 20,000 new troops on the ground, boots on the ground. 3,017 men and women are no longer with us tonight; and we appreciate their honor, we appreciate their service to the country. We have several thousand, over 15,000, who have been injured and that are a part of our medical veterans programs throughout this country. Some are learning how to walk now. Many of our injuries come by what we call IEDs, improvised explosive devices. 
   Many of the troops, as we look at, you look at your local television station, I know you see it in Ohio. I know you see it in Massachusetts. We see it in South Florida. We even see it here in Washington, DC. There was a new reserve unit that just left in Maryland. And I was watching the interview, and I think about when I have to travel as a Congressman, you know, my family's up here, I go back to the District. You know, that is 2 or 3 days I am away from my family. I say, oh, my goodness, I miss the kids. Imagine if I was leaving for 15 months for the second or third time. Just imagine that. How much of, how my kids would be taken away, you know. They won't get what they need from me. Just thinking about it, I can't help but get a little emotional when you think about this kind of thing. 
   And we know that they are being sent to do what, secure Iraq. So they are on a security mission. They are not there to say, well, you know, we are here to provide technical assistance. No, they are there to armor up. 
   I have been there twice. Mr. Ryan, we went together. And when they go out the gates of that base in Mosul or Baghdad or Tikrit, they may not come back. 
   Now we know it is a volunteer force and we know all of that. But I just want to say, Mr. Speaker, this has great gravity tonight, and I am so glad that I am hearing voices out of this Congress saying, we said during the campaign and during the election season, we will not defund the troops that are on the ground. 
   But no one, including the President, including the Iraq Study Commission, including all of the folks, General Colin Powell, I mean, General Colin Powell said it is a civil war going on, and if we send additional troops into a civil war it is the wrong thing to do. It is right here. 
   So if the Republicans or the President wants to say when someone is smart or when someone is credible, when they are carrying their message, here is a man that has served, Secretary of State, General, four-star, Joint Chiefs of Staff, well respected in this country, along with a number of other folks that are out there. So I think, Mr. Speaker, it is important that we shed light on this. 
   I know Mr. Delahunt has an hour that he does on a weekly basis on Iraq. But, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, I think it is time, no matter what, if you are a Democrat or a Republican, to be able to say, listen, I just came from the election, especially to Members that are new to the Congress, either in the Senate or in the House, and they heard what the American people had to say. 
   So, the President, I think, and this democracy needs to really speak up and say, hey, listen, we hear what you are saying. We know what the study group has said. But it seems like you are kind of out there by yourself. 
   Because, one other thing I just want to add and then I am going to be quiet probably for another 20 minutes, like Mr. Delahunt identified, is the fact that we see how many troops that have died. 
   All right, let's look at the U.S. contractors, these mercenaries we have out there, that are playing a role of when these countries are pulling out, Great Britain, they are out. They are coming out this year. A number of the other, quote, unquote, allies are pulling out of Iraq. So before we even get an opportunity to light the bulbs up in the committee room and start asking the questions about what has been going on over at the Department of Defense since everything has been classified and secret and no one has come and testified in front of these committees of jurisdiction, the President now wants to say, let's send 20,000 troops. 
   These are not new troops. These are individuals that are what we call a back draft. Folks want to leave. We have folks signing checks, giving them $40,000 to stay on. Are you going to go back to wherever you came from where the poverty is? Here is 40 grand. Take it to your family. Sign up for another 3 years. That is what we are talking about here. 
   And I am seeing these individuals that are hired, that are former military, by these companies, they are dying. When we went to the hospital over in Germany, there were contract fighters that carry out those convoys sitting there without a leg, Mr. Speaker. No one is thinking about these individuals because they are not wearing a U.S. uniform. They are veterans, and they want to work for these private contracting companies. So there is a lot of loss of life going on here, leave alone what could be happening with members of the CIA that we would never know how many of those individuals that have died in this conflict. So we have to bring the oversight management. I am saying that on the side of common sense. 
   I yield to any Member that wishes to pick up from this point, but it must be addressed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, I just get so excited whenever you do your own research, and you find quotes and all. 
   But I can tell you what's important here is to make sure that we follow through on what we told the American people. The American people voted for representation, and I am not just talking about proud Democrats, Republicans, independents, some young people that voted for the first time in their lives because they believe that there will be balance in this democracy that we call on. 
   So many of the issues that we talk about here, and so many issues that are within our first 100 hours that we want to work on, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and that we said we would do in our Six in 2006 plan, the American people said they were for it overwhelmingly. 
   We have to be able to understand here in this House that we would carry out what we said would do. Now that is a paradigm shift here in this U.S. House. A lot has been said. Very little has been done, but we are moving in that direction. 
   I was in a meeting earlier today and saying that we need an escalation in the truth and not the troops. We need an escalation in the truth and not the troops. 
   The truth is that the U.K. is pulling 3,000 troops out by May. The truth is, several other countries that are, quote/unquote, allies in Iraq, they are paying ransom for their troops that are captured by insurgents, because of the lack of security there. The truth very well may be, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Ryan and Members, the President is trying to say, well, I am going to send this in light of security, what have you. 
   Security missions to secure Iraq. What does that mean? Troops having to go out on patrol. What does that mean? IEDs, improvised explosive devices that will be on those roads. What does that mean? Fifteen months away from your family once again on the second or third deployment. What does that mean also when you look at the overall two theaters that we have now? Over 1.4 million troops, U.S. troops, have gone into theater over and over again. 
   What is our situation right now? Two-thirds of our military not ready to move as it relates to readiness if something was to happen. We have one-third that is ready. I am not giving out national secrets. You can read this in the newspaper. 
   So what's our job is to govern. What's also our job is to make sure that we provide oversight. That is what this U.S. House is all about. We're the People's House. You have to be elected to get here. One person said, in the Constitution, you can appoint a speaker, whatever the case may be, but mainly there is an election if a Member was to say, I no longer want to serve, whatever that reason may be. 
   Saying all of that, I am glad we touched on the issue. I think it is important because I know there will be a lot of talk tomorrow, because the President is the Commander in Chief. We committed during the election, when I say we, those of us that are in the majority, that we will not leave, that we will have the troops back, and we will not leave them underfunded, and that we will not pull the funding of the troops that are in Iraq now. 
   No one, I mean, no one, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, no one, I want to say this again, not even the bipartisan study commission, none of them, endorsed what the President is talking about right now. 
   The President had a meeting with some folks that he has been having a meeting with for the last 6-plus years, having a meeting with the same people, having the same input, the same advisors, and it is a merry-go-round of trust. I don't know if it is, you know, in all due respect to the folks that are making the decisions, I don't know if new people are being put into this circle of trust of saying, well, you know, maybe if I haven't been given good advice in the past, maybe I need to bring some different folks in to give me some input. 
   No, the only thing that happens in this circle of trust within the Bush administration is that sometimes people get off and they write a book about how bad the circle of trust was. That is what's happening. 
   Now, Donald Rumsfeld was the last one to jump off the merry-go-round. We don't know what he is going to say, but I think he is going to take it all the way, and he is not going to say anything at all. But there are a lot of bad decisions that have been made, and if you disagree within the circle of trust, you are out. 
   So I want the American people, I want the Members to pay very close attention, and, I am talking to my Republican friends as well as my Democratic friends, that we have the leader up and represent the American people on this issue as it relates to this escalation in troops. We need an escalation in the truth and not the troops, and that is where it is right now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Life is getting better, Mr. Speaker, and we will get the tools necessary, visual aids as we usually have here on the floor. We keep the chart companies in business. 
   Mr. Speaker, it was good to come to the floor again, 30-Something Working Group. We will be returning back next week with some of our new members that have joined us. Once again, we want to thank the Democratic leadership for allowing us to have this hour. 
   Mr. Speaker, historic days in the Capitol. Tomorrow will be the same. Friday will be the same. We thank God for the opportunity to be in the majority. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my strong support for H.R. 2, which calls for an increase in the minimum wage to $7.25 per hour. 
   Thirteen million of our Nation's lowest-paid workers have not had a pay raise for nearly 10 long years. It took the intervention of the voters to kick out the Republican do-nothing Congress, which loaded up past minimum wage legislation with special interest goodies, but today we are finally getting serious about helping this Nation's working people. 
   The typical American worker earning $5.15 per hour has been forced to bear the brunt of rising costs and stagnant wages; since the last minimum wage increase, the cost of health insurance, gasoline, food, electricity, and education has risen, yet wages have remained frozen. 
   Minimum wage today in Florida is $6.67 per hour. Yet, according to the Department of Labor in 2005, 117,000 Floridians earn at or below the $5.15 per hour Federal minimum  wage. Too many Floridians are stuck in this poverty trap. 
   I urge the Senate to move on this with the same speed and urgency that we have here in the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to come before the House once again. 
   As you know, the 30-Something Working Group, we come to the floor to share not only with the Members but also the American people the great things that are happening here under the Capitol dome and some things that Members should be informed of that could happen under the Capitol dome if we were able to work in a bipartisan way. 
   But I am so happy, Mr. Speaker, today because we are on the floor today, and we have a number of issues that we want to share with not only Members but also the American people. I am excited about all these bipartisan votes that have been taking place over the last 90-something-odd hours that have taken place. 
   I am glad to have good friends from all over the country. We are going to have the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Altmire) that is going to join us, and also the gentleman from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) is going to join us tonight. 
   I think it is important for us to really reflect on some of the things that have been happening. 
   Mr. Speaker, if I may make an inquiry, how much time do we have, sir? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I just wanted to verify that time check there. 
   In the 58 minutes we have left, I just want to talk about a few of the bipartisan votes, and then we will talk about this whole 100-hours agenda. 
   I was having a conversation before I came to the floor, and I was stopped by one of the outstanding staffers that are here. They said, Congressman, it is just interesting to see Democrats and Republicans voting together on major issues for a change. 
   Today, Mr. Speaker, we had a vote on the College Student Relief Act, and I am proud to say that not only did we have every Democratic Member that was in attendance today voting for it, but we also had 124 Republicans that voted for it. This was to take the interest rates down from 6.8 to now 3.4, and it is going to help 5.5 million students be able to afford college. 
   But I definitely love for my colleagues to chime in, because this is a good day of accomplishment whenever you can come to the floor and vote and be successful on something that you talk about when you are running for office; and now to see this legislative accomplishment in such a very short time is something that you should be excited about. I know that all our constituents are, too. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I am glad just to echo what everyone else is saying about this outstanding day on the floor of the House of Representatives. 
   The thing that I have been dwelling on in the last segment of the 30 Something Working Group is the fact that we have these bipartisan votes, but we still have the Republican leadership that is voting against, voting the opposite way of many of their colleagues in their caucus.     
   I wouldn't say that the Republican Caucus are joining us, I would say that they are representing their constituents. And we talk about bipartisanship, my constituents talk about it. I know that all of our constituents would like to see it, because this vote, Mr. Speaker, today was for America, for America's future. It was for kids like these and others that were here on the opening day of the House. We are fighting on their behalf. And when we fight on their behalf, we fight on their parents' behalf, their grandparents' behalf. Because no matter what religion that one may practice, they want their children and grandchildren to have a better opportunity than what they have had. And with the whole devolution of taxation, Mr. Speaker, that was passing here with out-of-control spending here in Washington, D.C., sending a lack of funding to the States that they have to balance, many of us come from State legislatures, we know we have to balance. It is not like the Federal Government, they can put it on a credit card. 
   One of our first actions that we took here on this House floor was to pass the pay-as-you-go rules, of saying that if you are going to spend money, then you have to show how you are going the pay for it, not just saying that we are going to borrow from foreign nations and allow them to own a part of the American apple pie. 
   But today I want to talk about this vote again: 71 Republicans on that side voted against it. Amongst the Republican leadership, every last member of the Republican leadership voted against it. 
   Mr. Speaker and Members, what is important here is the fact that this bipartisanship is what America has been waiting on. They have been waiting on it. Let's not do it as some sort of slogan. Living proof is the vote that took place here today on this floor. 124 Republicans voted on behalf of their constituents, not just the Republican leadership saying, well, we want you to vote this way, you know, don't worry about it. It is some mighty tall ladder to climb to say that, well, go back home and say I voted against interest rate cuts for your kid to go to school. I don't know, I wouldn't be back if I was to go home and tell my constituents I voted against it because it didn't happen fast enough in my opinion. 
   Well, the Republican leadership and the Republican Congress on the other side last session took this money away from students and families, and raised the interest rate to give special interest tax breaks to the super, super, super plugged in here in Washington, D.C. the way it used to be. Now, today, we were like Robin Hood. Those Members that voted on behalf of their constituents and voted on behalf of America's future put their special interests love aside and said that we are going to vote on behalf of America's future. 
   So I am excited about it. This is a day that educators and parents and grandparents who want to see their children educated will see this day as a momentous day. And I am speaking from proof, Mr. Speaker. My wife couldn't have gone to law school. She came from a family that they just didn't have the money to do it. If it wasn't for her being able to get student loans, this bill isn't going to be able to help her but it will help kids like her, and she is a judge today. She wouldn't be a judge if she obviously didn't get a law degree. So I think it is important that we give face and voice to this day because this is about the future of our country. 
   Mr. Ryan, I will yield to you at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I just want to let you know how much I appreciate you yielding to me. And you and Mr. Murphy, this must be an outstanding moment for you, because it is better than what Mr. Ryan and I experienced when we came in the 108th Congress. We didn't have the opportunity to do even a quarter of the things that we told our constituents we would do if they gave us an opportunity to serve them in this great body. 
   And what you just talked about is exactly--you can run for five elections on what you just mentioned that we did in the last 2 weeks. Unfortunately, it has been so backed up to the fact that now it is like excitement, it is electric here in Washington, D.C. And these bipartisan votes, anyone who wants to say anything about partisanship, they have to look at what has happened over the last 2 weeks and say, this is what we are talking about. They want it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. And I just, again, as we go along, because, Mr. Speaker, I am just going to keep saying the same thing because the last 109th Congress, the gentleman from Connecticut and the gentleman from Pennsylvania and Ohio, we pulled this chart out. I know the Clerk's office here has seen it, they probably could close their eyes and tell you what is on it because they have seen it so many times, and I know that the Members on the Republican side and the Democratic side. But this is what has been happening, $1.05 trillion. We are going to have another chart because I am pretty sure that number has gone up of out-of-control borrowing from foreign nations, higher than 42 Presidents, 224 years prior to, $1.01 trillion. That is a real fact. And we kept saying and kept saying it. 
   And what I am going to say again is the fact that we have the 9/11 Commission recommendations implementation making America safer, Mr. Speaker, bipartisan 9/11 Commission. Anyone can go on Yahoo and get a copy of this, the 9/11 Report: 299 yeas. Every Democrat on the floor that was in attendance that day voted for it and 68 Republicans voted in the affirmative. That is bipartisan. 
   Minimum wage, we talked about it. On that day, there were 315 yeas. Here is the record here with everyone that voted for it and against it. Every Democratic Member in attendance, 233, 82 Republicans voted for it. That is the bipartisan spirit. 
   Stem cell research, that was mentioned earlier. We have 253 votes; we have 216 Democrats voted for it and we have 37 Republicans voting for it. That is a good number. 
   Also, you have the Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act, which is 231 Democrats voted for it, 24 Republicans voted for it. And I think it is important that you take a look at that and pay well note to the fact that we were able to vote in a bipartisan way. 
   And I gave the vote out earlier and I want to direct the Members and all the Members to the vote counts. You can go to www.house.gov to get those vote counts so that you can share them not only back home in your district with your constituents, but the American people, Mr. Speaker, can go on www.house.gov and get this information and share it with the people that have been asking and polling and saying that they want bipartisanship in this House. We know there will be a point where there won't be bipartisanship on some votes, but we are going to try to encourage as much as possible. And I want to continue to say that. And I say that in Democratic circles and I say it in Republican circles with my Republican colleagues. 
   But we are so glad to be joined by another Member that has joined us in the 110th Congress, the distinguished lady from New York. 
   What we are doing here is kind of going around, and everyone is pretty much sharing what their experience has been over the last 100 or so hours or 90-something hours. We are going to hit 100 tomorrow. But talking about this governing in the way that we should be governing. And the American people are excited about it. So how is it for you? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Let me just say the fact that in the 30-Something Working Group we are so glad that not only have the gentlewoman from New York, but also the gentleman from Connecticut and also from Pennsylvania joining us, and of course Mr. Ryan from Ohio.     
   The fact is that we come to the floor to share with the Members what is actually happening here, because I think some Members may say they don't understand, but I think we were pretty clear last Congress about the facts. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want to make sure, I was actually corrected on the 90-something hours; it is 68 hours. Because we like to give out good information here. Even when we may sometimes by mistake give the wrong information out as it relates to the 100 hours, we correct ourselves here on the floor. So we give good information to the people so everybody knows exactly what is going on and how it is going on. 
   Congresswoman, you are going to add not only your experience, but also a good representation on behalf of your constituents and the people of America. By the fact of us being elected, our constituents have federalized us to deal with these issues that are facing the country right now. 
   Mr. Ryan, I yield to you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. It is nothing like, and I just keep breaking this down to what my cousin would understand, who has nothing to do with government. There is nothing like being a Member of Congress and telling people what you would do if you had the opportunity to get elected, and then coming and actually doing it. 
   Mr. Speaker, that is a paradigm shift. That is a paradigm shift here in  Washington, D.C. We said we would do what we are doing now, and it is actually happening. This is not something that somebody wrote in an article or an op-ed to your local newspaper, saying it would be wonderful if Congress could come together in a bipartisan way and raise the minimum wage. 
   It would be wonderful if we could start really diving into stem cell research in a way that would be responsible and along the lines of being able to cure many of the ailments that so many Americans have. 
   It would be wonderful for us to be able to take those super giveaways and loopholes and take $13 billion of those dollars and put them into energy innovation, making sure that we look at an efficient way to conserving not only energy but investing in the Midwest versus the Middle East. It would be wonderful, Mr. Speaker. 
   These are all of the things that people have been talking about, and I am glad to be a Member of the 110th Congress. 
   I was so happy, this last King holiday I had an opportunity to give a couple of speeches. I shared with folks; I told them what I had done over the last week and a half. They were, Wow, Congressman, we weren't ready for all that. We have been reading about it and we are so excited about it. It passed the House; and yes, it is on its way to the Senate and hopefully the President of the United States will sign it. 
   Our work is not done here. The Members' work is not done. America's public work is not done at this time. The American public has to continue to voice their opinion on these issues that we are passing off this floor. 
   I want to also let Members know that I will be down here tomorrow as a member of the Committee on Ways and Means, talking about the importance of the passage of this legislation. Being able to pass this legislation and turn these loopholes and great giveaways to special interests and turn them into something that the American people can wrap their arms around; and we can be innovative here, in the American homeland, to be able to hopefully save America. 
   I look at this as a national security issue. I was on Armed Services for the last two Congresses. I can tell you, I am not a Member of Congress with a conspiracy theory, but I know that if we start to invest in what we have here, our natural resources here, our alternative fuels that we can look at, be it E-85 or what have you, we will be able to do better. 
   I can tell you what is going to stop, Mr. Speaker, and we are going to make sure that the gentleman from Connecticut and the gentlewoman from New York and also the gentleman from Philadelphia, you will get your set of charts as you move along, to be able to show these great illustrations that I usually do. Mr. Ryan and I have a plethora of these charts. 
   I just want to say that it is important---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much. You can say I am from Georgia at least once. 
   Let me just say this: It is the same media market that you are in with Mr. Ryan. I was listening. 
   Like, for instance, here is an actual pump of ExxonMobil. Here is E-85 that is here, and these are the other fuels that are there, need it be unleaded, regular, what have you. You see here ``cannot use your Mobil credit card'' to buy this ethanol which is something that is produced here in the United States. This is a part of innovation. This is a part of trying to roll back the clock on global warming. All of these things that have taken place, they have been allowed to do it. 
   What we are doing tomorrow is taking away some of those super giveaways that they didn't even ask for and the Republican Congress was so happy to give to them. And I don't blame the oil companies. Don't get me wrong. They can only do what we allow them to do. 
   And while they are making record profits and still have the taxpayer dollars to do what they wish to do, we are going to turn that around and we are going to invest. That is just the beginning. That is what I am excited about. 
   I yield to the gentlewoman from New York. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I thank the gentlewoman. Again, being a new Member of Congress and to be able to go home and say that you actually have done what you said you would do should make your constituents feel good and should make even your family feel good and you feel good as a public policy maker. 
   Mr. Ryan, I yield to you at this time, the gentleman from Niles, Ohio. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, you are 110 percent right. I am so glad you mentioned this faith in government and the opinion prior to the election. We would watch the news, and they would talk about the American public and what they thought about the Congress, what they thought about elected officials. 
   I can tell you, and this is going into my 13th year of public service in the Florida House and the Florida Senate, now here in the Congress, I have never had a 2-week period like I have had. 
   And let us not take it lightly. This is something that should be well noted, and it is something that I am excited about as an individual. But I know the American people are excited about it as well, because my constituents are very excited about it. They have never seen this. So let us not take this lightly. 
   I know we have about 5 more minutes left, and we want to go around and make sure we all get an opportunity to make closing comments, but look at the vision of this Congress from this point forward. Just think about it. Think about the committee work that is going to take place. Think about the oversight that is going to finally take place. Think about the way we are going to look at the President's budget when it is presented later on, when the President comes here and gives his State of the Union speech. Think about the response to that and how we work with the President on some of those issues and move it forward, not jammed up here in Congress. 
   Because the American people want action. They want it right here, right now. 
   We are going to give it to them, Mr. Speaker. And I am glad we have the leadership in place, with Speaker Pelosi and our entire Democratic leadership that is here. We also have some leadership, I believe, on the Republican side of the aisle, the Republicans who want to vote on behalf of their constituents. We are going to give them that opportunity. 
   Folks talk about bipartisan. There have been Republicans on the other side of the aisle who have been wanting to vote for this stuff, for these things. I am going to say this stuff, using Mr. Ryan's analogy, which is good. Because we don't want to speak over the heads of anyone. We want to make sure that we communicate with everyone, and that is what it is all about. That is what it is all about, communicating. And that is what we want to continue to do. Whether it is good or bad, we are going to come to this floor and be committed to it, and I am glad you are all here tonight. 
   Those are my closing comments, so we will roll all around to the Member from Pennsylvania. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, I can tell the gentleman from Pennsylvania, you just had a great honor, because that is usually, for the last 4 years, that has been Mr. Ryan's honor, and he has now passed that on to you, so that means when you are here on the floor, the 30-something Working Group, it is your responsibility to give the website out and the e-mail address out. So consider yourself a friend, I guess, because since you all share the same media market, he thought he would be nice to you. 
   Let me just say in closing, it is an honor being joined here by my colleagues here in the House. And I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, even when I first came here to this House of Representatives, the good thing about being a Member of this House, when we take our voting card out, that is one vote. We all equal the same one vote. And that is very significant here in this Chamber. 
   We are going to take some tough votes, Mr. Speaker, and we are going to need Members to step up to the bat and be Members and be leaders on behalf of their district and on behalf of America. 
   And with that, we would like to thank the Speaker for the time to be here on the floor. Also, our Democratic majority leader and our Democratic whip and chairman and vice chairman for everything that they have done. 
   And with that, Mr. Speaker, we would like to yield back the balance of our time. And it was an honor addressing the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30 SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - November 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Mr. Ryan, and I want to thank the Members and Mr. Altmire for hosting this hour and anchoring this hour for us. It is always good to see Ms. Wasserman Schultz. She has been busy. There are a lot of appropriations bills coming through the floor. And Mr. Murphy has so much to offer to this 30-something. 
   Mr. Ryan, I appreciate the fact that you took us down Memory Lane, especially what this administration has done. Being one that pays attention to history and appreciates those that have contributed to this country, whether it be in battle or service in the military and those families that are waiting for their loved ones to come home, whether it be a son or a daughter or a sister or a brother or a mother, waiting, I think it is important for us to recognize right here in the moment, I can't help but think and reflect on the contributions of those Americans before me, the sacrifices that they have made that was just regular order that we call here in Congress, it was just another day. But these were heroes and sheroes that stood on behalf of this country and wanted to carry out the will of the American people. 
   Sometimes we get caught up here in Washington about what we think. I think it's important to note that seven out of 10 Americans have a bad feeling about what is going on in Iraq, the direction that we are going in. This New Direction Congress has tried to steer this administration in the right direction, but I'm just going to put it on the lap of those that are in Congress. The President is not running again. 
   I actually got up pretty early this morning and had a chance to go down to Morning Journal and have a chance to sit there and take calls from the American people. As you know, you get a cross section of Democrats, Republicans, independents, what have you. 
   But I think it is very, very important for us to realize, four Republicans tonight voted in the affirmative on H.R. 4156, which is the Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act of 2008. I think it is important that people note that in that bill, it put forth $50 billion under the $200 billion that the President called for. And the veto that you were talking about a little earlier as it relates to the health centers, as it relates to the research that has to take place dealing with the illness that many Americans are facing, family members that have cancer right now that need that research, need those dollars. The President vetoes those dollars. 
   So I think it is important for the Members here on the floor and the Members that are listening to what we are saying here on the floor and the staff members that are listening and the Americans that are listening that we pay very close attention. Everyone has to be a part of this paradigm shift in Washington, DC. It just can't be the majority we have here in the House and the one majority we have in the Senate, because if we had 60 votes, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, we would be able to move the agenda that the American people call for. 
   So my contribution tonight would be to, well, one, to our Republican friends on the other side of the aisle that don't allow us to have enough votes to be able to override the President, that the American people will hold them in judgment. To the Members in the Senate that feel that whatever the reason may be to not allow us to override the President, because the President is not running again, but you are, that the American people, independent, Republican, Democrat, first-time voter will let their voice be heard in 2008. That's the good thing about this whole thing, the fact that I know in this democracy that people are paying attention to what is going on. 
   You cannot justify, ladies and gentlemen, when you look in the face of 10 million children that have to receive health care and say that, well, it's okay for the President to veto and for me to stand by the President and not by those children, it's okay for us to continue on in a war with no accountability, and then we have the Blackwater incident, and then we have other incidents that are there. So the only thing that I am excited about is the fact that the American people are paying attention. But if it was about politics, I would just sit in my office and allow the President to do what he does and a very small majority as it relates to Republicans standing by the President because I know one day the Americans will rise up and the American spirit will rise up and we will see a different America. That is what I am praying for and I am hoping for very soon. 
   Mr. Ryan, I think you are 110 percent right. I think we need to remind the Members of the past. We need to make sure that we recognize those Members that were once Members of Congress but decided to follow the President, and the American people took them out of office, and as far as I am concerned, if you don't want to stand on behalf of those that sent us here, then you are making a career decision. The bottom line is we have men and women in harm's way right now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (OBSERVING THE BIRTHDAY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. -- (House of Representatives - January 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, Dr. King brought the civil rights movement to every living room in this country. He marched for freedom in the face of unspeakable racial prejudice, yet preached a message of nonviolence, civility, and tolerance. It took Dr. King's forceful movement and powerful words to bring about real and lasting change to this country. 
   This will be the first Martin Luther King, Jr. Day since the passing of Dr. King's wife, Mrs. Coretta Scott King, a legendary civil rights advocate whose memory we honored at a community-wide march last year in Miami. During a time of national grief and unrest following Dr. King's assassination, she became a symbol of her husband's struggle for peace and unity. On this day, we also honor this wonderful matriarchal figure, a role model who helped lead the struggle for equality. 
   Minority communities face obstacles every day--poverty, unemployment, lack of healthcare, and access to housing. It is a tragic waste that 1 in 5 children live in poverty, including more than one-third of African American children. 
   Dr. King paved the way for so many people, including me, to assume roles of influence in this country. And for all this work, he created a more just society and made this country an even better place to live. On this day of remembrance, let us work even harder toward fulfilling Dr. King's legacy of public service. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to come back before the House this evening. And I must say that tomorrow is going to be the judgment day as it relates to Members that are willing to lead on behalf of the men and women in uniform and those that have worn the uniform, and even making sure that we take care of some of the issues as it relates to homeland security. 
   Today there was a 3-hour, 4-hour-or-so debate on the emergency supplemental that is coming up tomorrow. And you know, part of the mission of the 30-Something Working Group is to come to the floor to make sure the Members have accurate information and to make sure that we provide good information, not only to the Members, but also to the American people. And having Members come to the floor that may represent one view or another is a part of our democracy, and I embrace it 110 percent. 
   I think it is also important for the Members to be able to receive up-to-date information and also talk a little bit about the past. And I think the past is something that we should embrace from time to time to allow the Members to be able to make a good assessment on how they should vote. 
   A couple of days ago, Mr. Speaker, I came to the floor and I recommended to some of the Members that it is important on both sides of the aisle that maybe some of us need to go see the wizard and find some courage and also find a heart when it comes down to standing up for the men and women in uniform. 
   And I talked a little bit about what is in this supplemental bill, emergency supplemental, which is over $125 billion and which will be, from what I understand, the last supplemental outside of the budget. 
   Now, when we talk about this emergency supplemental, this is for a war that we are going into the fifth year of. And I just want to say that again: a war that we are going into the fifth year of. It has lasted longer than any other conflict in U.S. history. And I just want to make sure the Members understand that. 
   We have heard statements on the floor. Members come to the floor, especially on the other side of the aisle, saying, well, we just need to give the troops what they need and then, you know, not have any oversight or any language in the bill that may bring about accountability. 
   Well, I voted for two past supplementals. I said that the other night. I will say it again. Some parts of that supplemental I did not like, but the last thing, the last thing that I wanted to do was to vote against the troops having what they need that are in harm's way. And I think that is important. 
   I don't know how I would have been able to go home to talk to my constituents and say that I voted against the supplemental because there was a part in it that I didn't agree with, while we have folks that are in a forward area, while we have men and women on the ground in Afghanistan, while we have men and women that are patrolling the streets of Baghdad now because the Commander in Chief sent them there to do so. 
   We want to support those men and women in harm's way and their families while they are here, and in this supplemental we are going to support them when they come back. 
   We are in the majority now. The Democrats are in the majority. But we have a minority spirit, to make sure that there is no Member in this House left behind because of a lack of information on what they are going to vote  on. And that is the reason why I am here.     
   I returned back to the Capitol tonight to talk a little bit about what is in this supplemental and what has happened in the past. Now, we had a number of Members on both sides of the aisle that talked a lot about what is not in this supplemental and what should be in this supplemental in the future. And I can tell you right now, it is far beyond what the President has called for as it relates to emergency dollars. 
   And when I see my friends on the other side, and I do say friends, I can tell you every Member that is in leadership now on the Republican side voted for a timeline for Bosnia. I mean, I just want to make sure that Members understand that, because there may be some Members who weren't here at that time, including myself, and it is important. 
   When we start to close out on this bill tomorrow, you are going to have Members of the Republican leadership that are going to come to this floor and call the Speaker of the House ``General'' what have you, call the majority leader ``General'' whatever they want to call him, call the whip ``General'' this, that, and the other. Meanwhile, here is the Congressional Record where they voted for the very same thing when President Clinton was in office. 
   Bosnia didn't have half of the conflict that Iraq has now. Not even a quarter of the money that has been spent in Iraq was spent in Bosnia. I am a member of the Armed Services Committee. There is a difference when you come to the floor and speak a cappella and when you come to the floor with the Congressional Record. 
   Let us talk about what the Congressional Record says because I want to make sure that Members understand. And if that was all about politics, I would be home right now doing whatever, reading a book or spending some time with the family right now, because if it was about politics, I would say I want the Republican minority to vote ``no.'' I want them to vote ``no'' so that they have to go home and tell their constituents that they voted against increasing veterans' health care funding, they voted against making sure that out of the 100 Stryker Brigades that we have in the Army, that they voted to make sure that some bureaucrat from the Department of Defense can waive their own rules and not make sure that those men and women have what they need to go to battle. And in every Stryker Brigade and every Stryker unit, you have to have a driver, a gunner. You have to have three individuals in that vehicle. And it is very, very important that everyone understands that we have to give our men and women what they deserve when they go into harm's way. 
   Let me just talk about the Congressional Record here. June 24, 1997, House Republicans brought to the floor an amendment that would set a timeline, a date certain, to withdraw from the U.S. peacekeeping mission in Bosnia, a mission that was only 18 months old. Mr. Speaker, I said this mission now in Iraq is in its 5th year. That was 18 months old. 
   Now, if my colleagues on the other side want to call someone General, Colonel, four-star, Secretary of Defense, whatever they want to call them, we are, as Members of Congress, to make sure that we carry out the oversight of any action of the U.S. taxpayer dollar. They don't want to talk about the investment that U.S. taxpayers have made in this war. They don't want to talk about the sacrifice of the over 3,222-plus members of the Armed Forces that are not coming home again, Mr. Speaker. They don't want to talk about the 10,000-plus members who were injured in Iraq that cannot return back to battle because of their injury. The Republicans do not want to talk about the casualties of this war as it relates to families that will no longer have their loved one back home, and they don't want to talk about the accountability that they did not put forth when they were in charge of this U.S. House of Representatives to say, Department of Defense, if you have regulations saying that military personnel that are going into harm's way, that they have to have armor, that they have to have the support staff, that they have to have everything they need to go to battle; if you aren't willing to stand by that, then don't criticize what we are doing. 
   I hope that my Republican colleagues follow and come along and join us because this is national security. This is not an issue of partisanship, or I am a Republican and you are a Democrat. That should not be the issue. 
   Mr. Speaker, I have said personally I voted for the supplemental that the Republican majority put forth two times in a row, not saying, I am a Democrat and, because they are Republican, I am going to vote against it. 
   Yes, I want to see redeployment in this war, but I do not want to leave our men and women without what they need to be able to fight the battle. There won't be a lack of ammunition or a lack of food or a lack of support or a lack of backup when there is a patrol out on the streets of Baghdad. 
   Do I support the President's surge? No, I do not. And I voted in the affirmative for the nonbinding resolution that came before this House that said that we do not support the surge that the President has put forth. Just because I disagree with the President doesn't mean that I need to disagree with the men and women in harm's way. 
   Now, some Members may have problems with this. They may not like a word over here or something that is said over there. But the bottom line is when you start looking at the morale of the men and women in uniform, the worst message that we can send to them is that because of partisanship, because someone is a Republican or someone is a Democrat, that I am voting against it because my party leader said that I need to vote against it. I am here as an American, not as a Democrat here tonight, because I think it is important that we think about those families that cringe to hear about another casualty in Iraq of a U.S. military personnel or a nonforeign personnel that is in Iraq. And by Members saying, I don't want to vote for that because there is certain language in there that I disagree with, I think it is not a good enough reason for Members to say that I am not going to vote for it. 
   We talked about a commander. We talked about a gunner. We talked about a driver in a Stryker force vehicle. We talked about 100 brigades that are out there now. I have been to Iraq twice. I don't need to come to the floor and say, I am a member of the Armed Services Committee and I have been to Afghanistan, and I have been to many of the other ``stans'' in the Middle East to understand what our men and women are facing in harm's way. I have been to military bases. I have met with military families before. I don't need to come to the floor and talk about that. We have some Members saying, well, I love the troops. 
   Well, I love the troops more than you. 
   No, I have a tattoo saying that I love the troops more than you. 
   I believe we can come to the floor and talk tough and talk about what we believe in. But when it comes down to it, Mr. Speaker, Members are going to have to take out their voting card come tomorrow, and they are going to have to vote if they support the troops or not, period, dot. They can say, well, I support them, or what have you, go home, talk to the VFW and march in the Veterans Day parade and write letters back to their constituents that I support them 110 percent. The bottom line is that there is nothing in this bill that the Democratic majority has put forth that has not already been recommended. 
   Think about the policy. Okay. Readiness. It comes from the Department of Defense regulations. Who can argue with that? Who can complain about that? Who can argue, saying we are micromanaging? 
   No, not micromanaging. We are just saying if you have rules and regulations that have been set forth for the men and women in uniform, follow them, period, dot. 
   Being a member of the Armed Services Committee, I have watched individuals sit at a table testifying before Congress in committee, saying that the troops have what they need, and, yes, they all have body armor, and, yes, they all have up-armed vehicles, and, yes, they have the jammers to stop the improvised explosive devices; and better yet, you go to Iraq and you talk to the men and women in uniform, and they say they don't have it.  
   So what should we do? Should we just say we trust the bureaucrats over at the Department of Defense because they say they have what they need? Or do we come to this Congress and put in a language of legislation that not may or if you get around to it, or if you think about it, that you make sure that you live by your own standards. No. We say ``shall'' in this bill. We say, yes, readiness is important. Yes, we say that what General Schoomaker has asked for as it relates to additional soldiers, we said yes to it in this supplemental. You will be voting against readiness if you vote against the emergency supplemental. 
   The Commandant of the Marines asked for three new brigades. That is in this supplemental bill. If you vote against this supplemental, you are voting against the readiness of the U.S. Marines. 
   There are a number of issues that are in this bill that I think are important. But I think when you look at House amendment 302 by Representative Buyer, Republican from Indiana, and the timeline of December 15 of 1997, President Clinton was required to report to Congress on the political and military conditions in Bosnia and by a date certain, by June 30 of 1998, all troops to be withdrawn. Mr. Speaker, that actually came to the floor. And the Republican leadership that was here at that time voted in the affirmative for the amendment. And so for Members to come here and start talking about it as though this is some new idea like ``never before.'' 
   I heard that today. I was sitting in my office. I could not believe that Members on the Republican side of the aisle were saying never before, that this never happened, that we have micromanaged generals and commanders and all the men and women that are in uniform and from this Congress we have 135 generals. Here is the Congressional Record right here. 
   One guy once said, ``I am not talking about anybody. I am just talking about what I am talking about.'' And the bottom line is in the Congressional Record, just as clear as I am speaking now, 20 years, 200 years from now, someone can unearth what I have said here tonight. And we have unearthed, to my colleagues on the Republican side, what took place, and guess what? Only four Republicans voted ``no.'' Here is the voting record right here. I have it. Of all the Republican Members that voted at that time, only four Republicans voted ``no'' when it came down to a timeline for Bosnia. 
   Now, this is not something that came from the Democratic National Committee or from the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee or from my office because it sounded good. This came out of the Congressional Record. 
   So I want to make sure that the Members know and their constituents know that when Members come to the floor and give inaccurate information to the American people and to Members of the House, it is a disservice. And I am not calling any names. I am just saying that here is the Congressional Record. For those Members who said never before in the history of the House of Representatives, you have got to know what you are saying before you say it, and if you said it, you should come to the floor and correct yourself so that individuals are not misled. 
   This is 18 months in Bosnia, let alone going into a 5th year in Iraq. No matter how you feel about the war, whether you voted against it or voted for it, I am not going to editorialize or have an opinion on how you voted when you voted. We are talking about right now. We are talking about tomorrow, less than 12 hours from now, you are going to have an opportunity to say if you are with the troops or you are not with the troops. And it is not going to be a floor speech, and it is not going to be a press release. It has to be if you vote ``yes'' or ``no'' tomorrow. 
   And I am speaking to every Member of the House. This is something that you have to live with. You cannot go to Iraq or Afghanistan or even write a letter or answer an e-mail from a troop if you found yourself in a situation where you said, no, I don't agree with what you are doing; that is fine, but to defund the mission while it is ongoing, our men and women that are in harm's way right now, is something that you are going to have to answer to your constituents. You don't have to answer to me, you just have to answer to your constituents. And I think that it is something you should take into consideration. And one of the great reasons why we come to the floor is to make sure that the Members know exactly what they're voting for. 
   And, Mr. Speaker, if I can, and Members, if they will indulge me, I would just like to talk a little bit about what is in this bill, what is in the emergency supplemental, because I want to make sure that the Congressional Record reflects it when you have some voters that may go into the archives of what took place at this time right now. Mr. Speaker, I used to see all the time in 109th Congress where we had some rough, rocky water, in the 109th Congress.     
   We had Members that are no longer Members of this House, not by vote but by the fact they had to leave the Congress because of unethical behavior, not unethical, criminal behavior, and we never once called the names of those individuals. But we said we have to do away with the K Street Project and other projects like it, because once upon a time this House, when the other side was in control, you had to pay to play. Either you were on a list or you didn't get access to this House. 
   Now we have returned this House to the people of the United States of America. We are going to continue to move in that direction, and I think it is important that we make sure that every Member of the House has the opportunity to vote on good legislation. 
   We are going to consider H.R. 1591, which is the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act of 2007. 
   I am sorry, I was just corrected, not only four Republicans will vote against it, only two Republicans will vote against it. We are checking while we are on the floor. I want to make sure the Record reflects the accurate information. 
   I think it is important that Members understand the defense healthcare is $1.7 billion more than what the President has requested. I want to just outline that. The President put forth his recommendations which should be in this emergency supplemental. We have on top of that, as it relates to the Appropriations Committee, which I commend not only the chairman but the chairman of the subcommittee and the members of the Appropriations Committee giving us an opportunity to vote on $1.7 billion more for healthcare, defense healthcare, above what the President has called for. 
   $450 million for posttraumatic stress, which is going to happen. This vote is going to come up tomorrow. That is very, very important. And counseling. We talk about families, you have to remember that there are men and women that have seen a lot, an awful lot, some things that we would never see. Members of this House, a few Members serve in the Reserves, some have served in the Guard, some have seen some of this. But the majority of Members of the Congress has not seen what these men and women have seen or gone through what they have gone through, seeing someone in the mess hall one day and not seeing them the next day, and hearing about what took place with them, that happened to them. 
   Sniper fire, improvised explosive devices, we could never understand that. But they come home with those real issues, and we have a number of members of our armed services that have admitted that they have issues mentally that they need help with. Now, let's think about it. We are talking about men and women of the armed services that admitted they have issues. How many of those have not? 
   We talk about preparation for when our troops come home. It is not just when you are in harm's way that some Members may say well, you know, it is important we take care of them. No, when they get home, we need to be there for them. $450 million in traumatic brain injury care and research. 
   $730 million for prevention healthcare. 
   $20 million to address the problems at Walter Reed Hospital. I think it is important, and I think we have that chart here dealing with Walter Reed, that is so very, very important. The Washington Post broke the story saying that Walter Reed wasn't up to par.  Then you had U.S. News and World Report. We have a specialist here. We have troops, men and women in need, and I think it is important that you look at this Newsweek cover. If you have this at home, take a look at it. It just came out March 5, 2007. I think it is important that everyone pays attention and focuses on this. 
   We have to make sure we are here for them. $14.8 million for burn care. For veterans care, $1.7 billion more than what the President requested. 
   I want to stop there to say we put I believe $3.7 billion in the continuing resolution. What do we mean when we say continuing resolution? We mean that the Republican Congress did not finish their work in passing all of their appropriations bills on time. The fact that they weren't able to do so, we were able to meet that shortfall. 
   Let me correct myself. $2.7 billion that was a shortfall for that. We were able to put $3.6 billion in January 31. The Democrats increased the veterans healthcare budget by $3.6 billion. And that was prior to the story coming out about Walter Reed. We had several amendments on the floor where we tried to increase veterans healthcare because we knew already there were issues in VA hospitals, VA clinics, our veterans getting what they need, leave alone the number of troops and soldiers and also their families that we are going to put into the system of active and those that have left the military, the strain on it. That is when it comes down to planning, and that is already there. 
   But when you look at the $1.7 billion more than the President asked for, we are talking about $550 million to address the backlog of maintaining VA health care facilities that were intended to prevent veterans from experiencing a situation similar that they found at Walter Reed. 
   $250 million for medical administration to be able to bring on sufficient personnel to support the growing number of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and to maintain the level of service at all VA facilities and for veterans. 
   $229 million for treatment for a growing number of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans. 
   $100 million for contracting mental healthcare, with the funding to allow the VA to contract with private mental healthcare providers to ensure that Iraq and Afghanistan veterans are seen in a timely manner. I think this is an important point. 
   We have veterans now, Members, that are waiting, not hours, not weeks, but months, and it is real really unfortunate they have to do so. I told the story about a friend of mine that was in a VA hospital that had my cellular number in his cell phone, and he called me and said, ``Kendrick, things are not going the way they are supposed to go. I am waiting to see a specialist, and I have been here for some time and I haven't seen one and I don't think I am going to see one.'' He was admitted. 
   Of course, my office called. We were in a truck moving around. My office called the administrator of the hospital, Mr. Speaker, and I am sure not only did he have the specialist, he had the head of the department of the area that he needed assistance in, and he got what he needed. 
   But, guess what? Every American, every American, every family member of a veteran, doesn't have the cell number of a Member of Congress. That shouldn't be the requirement for service, and that is why we are trying to respond to it. 
   It is also important, as I talk about readiness and support for our troops, $2.5 billion more to address the current readiness crisis that is the situation on stateside for our troops, including those that are better equipped and trained. 
   It is important that we make sure that our National Guard units are equipped. Mr. Murtha, the chairman of the Subcommittee on Defense Appropriations, has said there is not a National Guard unit that is at a point of readiness right now, Mr. Speaker. They are not ready? 
   Why? Because half of their equipment is in Iraq. Why? Because the training has not been taking place because of the lack of funding to be able to allow them to be battle ready. I think it is a disservice for those who have volunteered to serve our country. 
   You have $1.4 billion more for military housing allowance, $311 million more to make sure that you have the mine resistant ambush protection, which we call MRAP, for the vehicles in Iraq at this time. Everything that the military has asked for to make sure that our men and women don't come back in a way that this specialist had to come back. 
   She didn't have a choice, Mr. Speaker. Members, by voting for this supplemental, you are going to give her and many other people like her an opportunity to know that we have done everything possible that we can do here in the Congress to avoid what has happened to so many of our men and women that are going in for treatment, physical therapy, to make sure that we can avoid misfortune from happening to them, even though they keep the spirit that we ask them to keep, and these are the most resilient men and women in our society that are citizens. 
   I think it is important also to look, when I talked about the size of the military, $2.3 billion for the full cost of fielding an additional 36,000 Army troops and 9,000 Marines, and also $720 million as it relates to military construction costs. I think it is important that we look at this. 
   This is exactly what I was stating earlier. Members want to talk about readiness for voting against this bill? You are saying you are fine with the status quo. We don't know when the next conflict is going to take place. We don't know when. We asked the Army, why do you have soldiers rotating in in 120 days when they just served several months, almost a year, and beyond a year in Iraq? 
   We don't have the troops. That is what the Army is saying. The Marines are saying we are stretched thin. They are asking for help, and we are saying we are there to help them, and it is in this bill, and I think it is important that Members understand that. 
   I could not go to Iraq, which I am going to be going again for the third time, and look a marine, soldier, sailor, airman, Coast Guard person, in the face and say that I am there for you if I voted against the supplemental. 
   Mr. Speaker, I go back to say that I voted for the Republican version of the supplemental. I believe we should have redeployment, but the last thing that I want to do as a Member of Congress, the last thing that I want to do is vote against our men and women having what they need when they are in harm's way. That is the last thing I want to do. There has to be a really rough day for me not to vote to support these troops. 
   I know that there are some Members that are going to do what they need to do, but I just want to make sure, especially for my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, those conversations that I have had with many of my friends, they say, ``Our leadership tells us that we need to vote against it.'' In the Appropriations Committee, some of my good friends on the other side of the aisle, the leadership said that. 
   Well, what about what our troops are saying? What about what their families are saying? What about our responsibility as men and women of the U.S. Congress? 
   Of course, I am not a general. I am not even a sergeant. I am not even a specialist in the Army. But I have been elected and federalized by my constituents to come here and represent them and the United States of America and make sure that we carry out our responsibility as Members of Congress to have oversight. 
   It is not making decisions here in the Chamber. It is oversight. What is wrong with the Iraqi government having to meet benchmarks? Let's just put it this way, Members. How long have we been talking about, and I do mean talking, about the training of Iraqi troops to secure their own country? How long? I just want to know how long. We have been talking about it I know for at least 3 years, which this is a war in its fifth year. 
   For at least 3 years there has been a strong conversation about training Iraqi troops, taking over patrols. They have a brigade now taking over a city. We look the next couple of months, U.S. troops are riding side-by-side with Iraqi troops, and in some cases it is a U.S. patrol, because that is what we are down to. A coalition of the few. Great Britain has already said, you know, guess what, folks? We are out of here. We have done our mission. Saddam Hussein is gone, has gone on to  another place. His two sons are gone. And they know it is a civil war going on right now in Iraq and they know full well that the key to Iraq, using the Iraq Study Group, I must add, and also every other expert as it relates to Iraq, will not be solved militarily.     
   It will not be solved militarily. Diplomacy is going to play a big role. Unless we start to endorse diplomacy, and Members are coming to the floor and saying, by passing this bill, we are saying we are surrendering. 
   Let me go back to what President Bush said. He was asked during the last campaign when would there be a victory. Well, there won't be a victory. 
   What he meant by that by saying there will not be a time when someone will go and hand a flag over to the United States and say ``you won.'' That is not going to happen. That is not going to happen. So for Members thinking there is going to be some big conversation at Little Big Horn or whatever the case may be for those historians that are around, that is not going to happen. 
   If you are waiting for an insurgent to come up and say let's sign an agreement and say, let me borrow this pen. This pen is fine. I will sign right here to say we surrender to the great U.S. military. That is not going to happen, ladies and gentlemen, and every Member of Congress has to know that. So to say we are going to hang around officiating a U.S. war, and losing two to three troops on average to sniper fire and IEDs, just to say we are tough and we are going to keep riding until we can't ride any more, we are moving into $525 billion-plus, with a B, in spending in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   Afghanistan is a worthy cause because they had everything to do with 9/11. Because of Iraq, the Taliban and al Qaeda still live in Afghanistan, and they are getting stronger because of the lack of oversight by this Congress and the White House saying we need to send more troops because we have the coalition of the few who are leaving Iraq. So we have to continue to send brigades and troops into Iraq. This supplemental is moving in a new direction. It is moving in the direction of oversight saying that the President of the United States put benchmarks on the Iraqi Government, and in this bill it addresses that. If they don't meet those benchmarks, we start reversing our troops out. If we have an unwilling government in Iraq saying we can continue to do what we are doing because the Americans are going to be here, that is not so. The American people are far beyond several Members of Congress on this issue. Democrats and Republicans and Independents know full well that the reaction in Iraq of saying we are going to continue to send military in and some bureaucrat over at the Department of Defense saying, well, regardless of the fact that they had enough downtime, we are going to send them anyway because we have to keep over 140,000 troops in harm's way, just in Iraq. In this bill it goes against that theory. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, let me just clarify. Does it tie the hands of the administration? No, it doesn't. It says if it is within the national interest of national security, you have to come before Congress and justify stepping out of what we want to pass here in this House. It doesn't do anything to the President. It doesn't tie the hands of the military. It says if you are going to do something outside of the rules that you have already set, you have to come before Congress and let us know what you are doing. What's wrong with that? 
   Newsweek, Time, and other periodicals that are weekly, and some daily, have asked, Is the President listening? What is the President thinking? 
   The American people are saying they want to do certain things as it relates to Iraq, but they don't want to be in the middle of a civil war. 
   The Department of Defense 2 weeks ago admitted there is a civil war in Iraq. They said that 2 weeks ago, and it has been going on for over a year. The media 6 months ago said we are now calling it a civil war. And the Department of Defense just came to grips with that. 
   I am going to tell you, there are four star generals that are friends of mine that know full well and have told me, Just between you and I, Congressman, we are in a civil war. 
   But the administration had to give the okay. So, you know, things are getting tough now, and you go ahead. You can say it, yeah. 
   That is the kind of DOD that we have right now. When I say DOD, the Department of Defense. This bill unearthed that kind of philosophy. We want the Department of Defense to be professionals. We want our three and four star generals and our people in harm's way to make the decisions and come before Congress and tell us the truth, not because someone in the White House or someone in the Department of Defense said if you tell it, there is going to be a price to pay. 
   Mr. Speaker, I have a list of generals that have paid that price that have said otherwise than what the Department of Defense wanted them to share. 
   One thing that is good, Secretary Rumsfeld is gone, and that is good. I am glad he is gone from the Department of Defense. I asked him politely, Maybe you 
   want to consider retiring after Abu Ghraib. When you have the kind of power over DOD, it smothers other ideas. This is not something in DOD. This was printed in newspapers. If you disagreed with the Secretary of Defense, you had a problem. We want to fight against that. 
   I want to talk about my colleagues on the other side. My good friend who used to be the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, he said he never felt stronger against what was going on as relates to the surge. They are going to have an opportunity to vote on the supplemental. 
   You had Senator Hagel who is also a Republican and I consider a good person. He said: ``I think the speech that was given last night,'' and this was after the President presented his plan for the surge, ``by the President represents the most dangerous foreign policy blunder in this country since Vietnam. If it is carried out, it will be resisted.'' That is Senate Foreign Relations Committee testimony of 1-11-07. It goes on and on. Senator Snowe, Senator Collins, Senator Coleman, Senator Smith, Senator Brownback, Senator Specter, Senator Bunning, and on and on and on. Senator Sununu. 
   So we can go on and on talking about the justification of third-party validators that are here. And then we have generals, Mr. Speaker, that have said otherwise against what this administration is proposing. The President has threatened to veto this supplemental. I wonder why. It is his words that he said here at that podium that the Iraqi Government has to be held accountable because we will not be there. 
   We used his words and put it on paper, put it into law. Here is the bill. It is on the Internet. Folks can read it. Every Member has a copy. There is no secret. It is not in some back room, it is not like, I have not seen the bill yet. H.R. 1591. You can read about all of the good things that are in here that are already Department of Defense regulations. That is what the President said when he made his surge speech and the accountability that is being placed on the Iraqi Government. 
   The Iraq Study Group, it is in here. Their recommendations are in here. It is nothing new. They were bipartisan, appointed by the President of the United States. 
   All we are saying is we are going to hold you to your word. What is wrong with that? Whatever happened to those good old days, if you say it, you are going to do it? What is wrong with that? 
   I don't know what the problem is, Members, but the only problem I can find with holding you to your word is probably politics, partisan politics. When we look at national security, there is no room for that. 
   Let's talk about some of these military leaders that have raised a concern about the escalation. 
   General Colin Powell, can't say enough about him, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, former Secretary of State. That is some resume. ``I am not persuaded that another surge of troops in Baghdad for the purpose of suppressing this continued violence, this civil war will work.'' 
   That is General Colin Powell. It is not Kendrick Meek. And he is a Republican. He is just being an American when he said this. I know General Powell, and he is a friend. 
   General Wesley Clark, retired, former Supreme Allied Commander of  Europe of NATO. This is a man who led us in Bosnia. He said troops surge and accountability will be seen as rhetoric. The bottom line of what he is saying is that the accountability of what we say that we want to be accountable for in Iraq as it relates to security is not going to see itself through. 
   General McCaffrey, who is retired, he said: ``It is a foolish idea. Our allies will leave us.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, that is what has happened. 
   ``Make no mistake about that, most will be gone by the summer.'' This is what he said. And sure enough, they are going to be gone by the summer. 
   These are our decorated members of the military that are saying this. So when Members come to the floor and start calling Members names and calling the Speaker names and calling the Speaker ``general'' and carrying on and trying to make a point and trying to sensationalize the obvious, it is not serving our troops well and it is not serving our country well. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am going to close with this: we have a responsibility as Americans and also as Members of the House to make sure that we follow through on what we said and told our constituents that we would do, that we would come as thinkers to this process and that we would represent them in the best way possible. 
   For the men and women that allow us to salute one flag, for those who have served in the past, we thank them and honor them. Let's honor them tomorrow when we come to this floor and vote for this emergency supplemental. We had a nonbinding resolution a couple of weeks ago that said we were against the escalation of troops in Iraq. This bill and this emergency supplemental is binding, and it has meat and teeth on it on behalf of those in harm's way, and even those that have served. In this bill we are taking care of the needs of not only military but military families. We are providing homeland security with the necessary funding that they need. And so when you think about, when you pray about what you are going to do tomorrow, think about those that are counting on us to represent them. 
   Mr. Speaker, I thank the Speaker and majority leader for allowing me to come to the floor tonight. I want to thank the Members of the House for listening. It is always a true honor to address the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I am glad to be down here, and I am glad that the chairman brought this bill up. 
   I can tell you the only thing that I can see in this bill is ultimate accountability and oversight by this Congress, which hasn't happened in the last two emergency supplementals, those that I voted on and those that I voted in the affirmative on. 
   But the good thing about this bill is that we have the troops back. We are saying that they have to be prepared, just like the Department of Defense says that they have to be when they go off to war. This is actually in this bill. 
   We look at this bill dealing with health care for our veterans, we look at planning, we look at the needs of our troops. Once they get back here to the United States, this bill covers and starts that investment that we have to make to make sure that we take care of our troops in the field and when they get back here at home. 
   So this is very, very important, Members. I would hate for my Members on either side of the aisle to be on the other side of this bill, because you have a lot of explaining to do when you get back home, the reason why you voted against this bill. You can call Members of Congress, General X and General Y, but the bottom line is accountability is in this bill and funding. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to be before the House once again. As you know, the 30-Something Working Group, we have been coming to the floor now for some 5 years to not only share with the Members but also with the American people on what's happening here in the Capitol. 
   I'm going to do a short segment because we have other Members that need to come to the floor. And the hour is late, and tomorrow we're going to be working pretty hard past this hour tomorrow, I'm pretty sure. And we want to make sure that everyone is able to make it home and do the things that they need to do to prepare for that day. 
   Mr. Speaker, with that, I just would like to say that we've been in debate now for a couple of hours on the budget, the 2009 budget. And I can tell you, Federal budget, as it relates to the House version, I can tell you what I've read and seen of the President's budget, we have a lot of patching up to do in that budget. 
   Tomorrow we will have a number of different caucuses coming to the floor presenting their budget, their ideas. Some of them came before us today to talk about some of those issues to be considered before the full House, and I'm glad that we are providing that opportunity for the Members to participate in that process; also, to be in debate with the Republicans on Democratic new ideas, moving in a new direction. And I think it's so very, very important not only for the Members of the House to be a part of that exercise, but also for the American people to witness that exercise so that they will know, firsthand, who has the best priorities for the working American people that are out there, and those that are retired and those that are yet unborn, preparing this Nation to be able to bring them up in a way and to be able to have the resources in place so that they can see the kind of strong America that I witnessed when I came about. 
   Now, let me just share a little bit about this budget. And it supports fiscal responsibility and also accountability on government. I think a lot of the frustration with so many Americans right now is based upon a lack of accountability, a lack of oversight, a lack of restraint as it relates to spending. And I think when you have accountability, you're going to save money. I don't think it, I know it. 
   Now, 13 years in public service, and 8 years at the State level, I think it's important that we embody that. And this budget, it brings the budget back to balance by 2010, and our House budget, unlike the President's budget that he has proposed, not only to the House, but to the Senate, also the budget follows PAYGO rules which you say pay as you go, something that we adopted in our rules to say if we're going to spend it, we're going to show how we're going to pay for it. And I'm glad to see that we're still embracing not only that rule, but also that philosophy as it relates to the American people, of what they ask for. 
   The administration also continues in the fiscally irresponsible practices. And in this budget we bring it back to being responsible. And it's a real contrast, because since January 2001, a $5.6 trillion, 10-year surplus has been converted into a record deficit. And as you know, Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor almost every night to share how that deficit has crippled America and hasn't allowed us to be able to do the things that we need to do back in our districts. 
   I think we look at the wasteful spending; this administration is littered with examples of wasted spending and lack of accountability. And I'm glad that Chairman Spratt of South Carolina has embraced that in his budget that he's bringing to the floor. Our budget that we're bringing on the Democratic side, we're looking at not only strengthening the economy, but creating jobs and at the same time energy, education, jobs, infrastructure and innovation will be the watchwords as we move through this process as basic principles. And so many Americans can, and also the Members, can go on www.budget.house.gov to look at the Democratic budget because I think it's important that we have that level of transparency so that they can take a look at the proposals that we are going to put forward. 
   So many of my constituents and so many Americans are challenged by the cost of energy. And we do know on January 22 of 2001, gas prices were at $1.47. And now, today it's at $3.13 per gallon. And I know many of my constituents and many of the Americans that are paying attention to the proceedings here on the floor, they're saying, well, Congressman, you're a little bit off of that $3.13, because as I moved around Washington, D.C. today I saw it as a lot greater.     
   We provide, with our budget, as it relates to dealing with some of these gas issues, it provides a $6.1 billion funding for renewable energy and energy efficiency and other energy programs, which is $1.1 billion, 21 percent more than the 2008 level. 
   So we are moving in that direction making those kinds of investments, and some may translate that into saying that we are pulling ourselves out of Iraq, out of the Middle East and investing in the Midwest and trying to not only push private sector but also Americans in the direction of being more energy efficient so that we don't find ourselves continuing to depend on the big oil companies. 
   If I can have my big oil company chart, I would appreciate it, because I think it's important to be able to reflect on it. Also, it rejects President Bush's budget cuts of energy efficiency and renewable energy programs, including the cuts to solar energy power, and also what the President did in terminating the weatherization-assistance program. We are replacing all of that, and I think it's important for Americans to understand what is happening here. 
   These big oil companies have reaped record profits under the Bush administration, and as you can see here in 2002, it was first $30 billion in record-breaking profits. It then kicked over $59 billion, $82 billion, $109 billion, $118 billion and $123.3 billion of these oil companies raking in these profits. And as you know, Mr. Speaker, we have moved legislatively to make sure that we call back some of those giveaways that the Republican Congress gave these oil companies. 
   And this has resulted in what I talked about a little earlier, $1.47 when the Bush administration started in January 22, 2001, and it almost sounds like an inauguration date, and what we face now at $3.13. The barrel of oil continues to go up. 
   So this energy investment and being efficient is very, very important to the country, also very, very important to national security. 
   We also invest in hundreds of billions of dollars in new investment and green jobs, green-collar jobs. These are jobs, Mr. Speaker, that we can't ship overseas. When we make our building greener, when we make our homes greener, these are jobs that anyone who can even be a high school dropout  with a skill would be able to participate in to that individual that became an engineer. 
   These are jobs that you just can't send overseas. And this is a real economy and not a credit card economy, not a second mortgage economy, or not an economy where one has to go out and continue to borrow to live. This is real money coming in for real working Americans that are here so that we can put folks to work and get them off the unemployment role. 
   I'm going to end right there, Mr. Speaker, as it relates to the energy investment because there are so many other investments in here as we look at education, transportation, and infrastructure. And today, just today, the Speaker had an infrastructure meeting in the Speaker's office with many individuals that felt that they had a way to not only incentivize an economy but also build on the infrastructure of America. 
   So many of my constituents and so many Americans are very concerned about the investment that's going on in Iraq right now. Crumbling bridges, railways are not what they should be as it relates to moving transportation. We have trains that can move freight almost 430 miles on one gallon of diesel fuel. I mean, these are things that we have to continue to work on to not only save our environment but also create American jobs. 
   And that's what I'm very excited about in this budget that we are putting forward, to give us the guideposts that we need in this country to not only do away with the debt by 2010 but also get the country moving in a direction so that it can be a safer place for our children and grandchildren. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, we always want in the 30-Somethings to not only hear from the Members but also hear from the American people on various issues that are facing the Congress. Next week we are going to be on Easter break for the next couple of weeks once we finish our business this week, But the 30-Something staff continues to work to come up with the great ideas that we put forth on behalf of the American people. And we are talking about Democrat and Republican, Independent, those that are thinking about voting and those that can't even vote yet. 
   Our e-mail address is 30-SomethingDems@mail.house.gov. Again, 30-SomethingDems@mail.house.gov. Or if you want any of the information that we shared with you tonight about the budget, we know that you can go on www.budget.house.gov. Again, www.budget.house.gov. And any general information that you may want, what Democrats are doing here in Congress, www.speaker.gov, and I think that's easy enough to remember. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to be a cosponsor to this bill that will give Alternative Minimum Tax Relief to those families in my district and the entire State of Florida who will be unfairly hit with this tax in 2008. 
   While the AMT was not intended to burden our working families, now in 2008 it does. Initially, the AMT applied to fewer than 20,000 taxpayers. In 2007, it applied to 4.2 million taxpayers. By 2008, up to 26 million taxpayers are projected to be subject to the AMT. Moreover, it is the middle- to upper-middle-income taxpayers who are the targets of this tax. It is our married taxpayers and larger families that are especially going to fall under this tax. 
   An astounding increase in the number of working families in Florida will be hurt by the AMT in 2008 if something is not done. It is projected that over six times the number of working families will be hurt by the AMT in my State of Florida in 2008 than were hurt by this tax in 2005. In 2005, there were 161,000 AMT returns filed in the State of Florida. However,  in 2008, it is estimated that 956,000 AMT returns will be filed in Florida--a more than six times increase between 2005 and 2008. 
   In 2007, Florida ranked seventh in the number of returns that were caught. with the Alternative Minimum Tax burden. However, in 2008, Florida is projected to rank fifth in the number of returns caught with the AMT. So even in the one year, 2007 to 2008, the number of working families in Florida caught with the AMT has increased tremendously. 
   Originally, the AMT was intended to cover only America's high-income taxpayers to ensure that they pay at least a minimum amount of federal taxes. But now, it is not this group that will be the most adversely affected by the AMT. It is our hard-working families--over 950,000 hard-working families in Florida alone that will be hit unintentionally and unfairly with this tax. This is not what the AMT was intended to do, and it is time for those families in Florida and elsewhere to get badly needed relief from this tax. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (PUBLIC HOUSING ASSET MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - February 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Members, I t hink that this amendment is well in order. First of all, I want to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr. Frank, and also Mr. Sires, who has been a leader in this, my friend from New Jersey, and also Chairwoman Waters. 
   Mr. Chairman, this amendment simply, on page 3, line 23, gives those individuals who find themselves in the middle of a dispute between the Department of Housing and Urban Development and a local housing authority, when that particular local housing authority falls into r eceivership, all agreements that have been agreed upon as it relates to tenants and that housing authority should be honored when that takes place. 
   Case in point: In south Florida we were awarded a HOPE VI grant, and the housing authority failed the residents in being able to implement that grant, and then the residents and housing authority came together for the better good to make sure there weren't a number of homeless individuals, and those agreements ended up going south. And I think there are othe r communities that will be going through this in the very near future. 
   I am offering this amendment, and hopefully the Members will accept this amendment in good faith and it will help us move forward as we look at these situations in the future. 
   Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (NATIONWIDE MORTGAGE FRAUD TASK FORCE ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I want to thank the gentlewoman from the great State of Ohio for yielding to me and my good friend from North Carolina. Both of their explanations about H.R. 6853 are very accurate of the situation. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have a number of Americans that are trying to get homes or tried to get homes, and we have individuals that are preying upon them. This is really one of the most egregious white-collar crimes that are out there right now. 
   With this bill, it will give the FBI some direction in working with local law enforcement to bring about the kind of coordination we need in our country to be able to assist Americans or be able to save Americans from falling victim to mortgage fraud. 
   In my community alone, in Miami-Dade County, there was a task force set up. Just last year, they were able to not only arrest 71 individuals, but they were able to generate more cases because of the coordination they have and expertise that they have, but that's a metropolitan city. With this legislation, it will bring about the coordination of smaller police departments and also prosecutor offices that will be able to move faster on these mortgage crimes. 
   Many of the Members have been given the statistics that have plagued our country thus far, but this legislation is very, very urgent. Right now, we are facing a crisis on Wall Street, but we have a number of Americans that are facing a crisis because they have been had by those that are out there preying upon them and that are coordinating themselves in a more detailed way than law enforcement at  this time. But we are catching up and legislation, like the legislation that is before us, will allow us to do so. 
   I want to commend the FBI for what they have been able to do thus far. With this legislation, it will give even more focus to mortgage fraud. 
   Also, I just want to state for the record that we have been in communication with the FBI. They are fully aware of this. I think the reason why we have an amendment, this bill has been amended, is the fact that the coordinator will serve better than just an overall task force that will create regional task forces, that will then come back to the Congress and give us some legislative ideas on how we can even pinpoint more efforts towards this particular crime. 
   As you know, many, many Americans, many Americans have saved up their money to be able to purchase their first home. Many of these individuals that are out there coordinating to take their money, to take their life savings, to be able to take every little thing that they have punched in for and punched out for many, many years, some of them have taken the money their loved ones left for them once they have passed on to be able to buy that first home, and for them to be taken advantage of is one of the bad things that we look at in our society. 
   We do know we have undesirables out there that are willing to prey on hardworking Americans. This legislation is urgent. It's right now for the moment. 
   I am glad we are on the floor. I want to thank the chairman of the committee, and, also, our colleagues on the other side of the aisle, for working to push this legislation to passage here in the House and hopefully through the Senate and on to the President of the United States, so that we don't have to continue to see the number of victims, especially seniors and especially first-time home buyers, fall victim to these individuals that are out there. 
   I ask for the Members to please support H.R. 6853, the legislation that would create a nationwide mortgage coordinator in the FBI.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I thank you so very much. You know, I don't put a lot of value in folks coming down to the floor sharing inaccurate information. And it is very unfortunate, because one thing that I can say here of the 30-something Working Group, we actually meet off the floor and we make sure, Mr. Speaker, that information that we are sharing is factual, that it is factual and that if someone wants to challenge us on that particular fact, they can go to the Congressional Record, they can go to the Library of Congress, what have you. It is there. Or they can go to a piece of legislation. 
   To come down and make statements that could mislead Members of Congress or could mislead the American public, I think that it is very unfortunate and it is something that should be frowned upon. But I guess the only good reason why I can come up with the reason why some Members on the minority side will come to the floor and make some inaccurate statements of the essence of the continuing resolution today, I go back to what I have been talking about for the last 2 weeks and that is the bipartisanship that has been taking place here on this floor. 
   If I was a part of the Republican leadership, I would be concerned, too. I would wonder how would the American people think, I mean, what would they think, Democrat or Republican, on how Democrats can be in control of the House and then, at the same time, have this bipartisanship taking place with Democrats in control. Let me just clarify what I am saying. 
   Time after time, Republicans are voting with Democrats on good measures. Today, this continuing resolution was a good piece of legislation. It wasn't a partisan vote. It shouldn't have been a partisan vote. Two hundred twenty-nine Democrats voted for the continuing resolution; 57 Republicans voted for the continuing resolution. We should all be on the floor happy that we can come together on a piece of legislation that is so important to the country. What is the alternative? The government shutting down? We don't want that. 
   I will yield to the gentleman. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. It is no problem at all. Clarification is very, very important in this process. And the Republican leadership seems to continue to have a problem with the bipartisan spirit that is in the Chamber now, because in the last Congress that wasn't the case; in the Congress before that, that wasn't the case. There were partisan votes every day. I mean, it was almost like, how can we send a bill to the floor to make the Democrats vote against the bill versus for the bill? And one of the things that the American people want is for us to work together. We are all Americans. We salute one flag. We walk into this Chamber, we all carry one voting card. And I think that is important. 
   But to the point, to show the difference between us and others that may come to the floor sharing this information off the cuff, and Ms. Wasserman Schultz is 110 percent right and accurate as it relates to the percentage, but she named off a piece of legislation that Republicans and Democrats voted for: 9/11 Commission Recommendations Act, 68 Republicans voted for it, 231 Democrats voted for it, which was 299 total for us to pass it. The Fair Minimum Wage, 82 Republicans voted for it, 233 Democrats voted for it, and brought the vote to 315. We looked at the issue of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act; 37 Republicans, 216 Democrats brought that vote to 253, which was in the affirmative. The Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiating Act, 24 Republicans, 231 Democrats, 255, to make it an affirmative vote. And the College Student Relief Act, 124 Republicans, 232 Democrats, that brought that vote to 356. 
   These are major, major, major issues that are facing the country, issues that have been clogged up in the Republican Congress, 109th, 108th, 107th, 105th Congress. And now the American people said they wanted to move in a new direction and we are moving in that direction. And, unfortunately, there are some Members of Congress on the Republican side of the aisle that have a problem with that. 
   I told you that I am all excited, and Ms. Wasserman Schultz can tell you, Mr. Ryan can tell you: Lead us the opportunity to lead and we will lead. 
   Mr. Ryan how, many times: If you give us the opportunity to be in the leadership of the House of Representatives you will be served? West Coast. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Put me in, Coach. The Heartland of America, East Coast, Republican, Democrat, Independent, Green Party, thinking about  voting, now voting. You do it, we will make it happen, and it is happening. 
   So you have some that come to the floor and talk about, well, you know, this is not happening and I voted against it because I didn't get 2 hours to speak independently on the floor against it, and that is the reason why I voted against it. 
   I just want to lay it out because I want to make sure that the Members know and the American people know that it is just Washington rhetoric. We are here making it happen. We are happening. 
   I yield to my good friend. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You and Mr. Ryan are members of the powerful Appropriations Committee; and, today, watching Mr. Obey, the chairman, and seeing what he was able to do in moving this continuing resolution, which is the appropriations act which funds the government, to see that happen and to understand the history of it. Because when the Republicans took over in 1995 or 1994, went into power in 1995, they didn't have to deal with a continuing resolution because Mr. Obey and the Appropriations Committee passed all of their bills on time. They didn't leave unfinished business for the Republican Congress. 
   And, guess what, they also had a surplus as far as the eye could see. So whatever idea we wanted to implement, we had the money to do it because we had managers in this House of Representatives under Democratic leadership to make sure that the country was in the black and in good standing and did not have bad credit and did not owe foreign nations $1.05 trillion. 
   Then the Republican leadership comes in here and they hand things out, special projects, bridges to nowhere, all of these big items, and then come to the floor and grab it. That's fine. 
   The reason I am happy today is today is the beginning of getting the Appropriations Committee and this House in order and getting us on track under regular order. And I will guarantee as sure as my name is Kendrick Meek that the 2008 appropriations act will pass on time. There will be hearings. We will look at every project and make sure that everything is in order, because American taxpayer dollars are going towards those projects. 
   Very few appropriations committees met. They hardly met. Why do you want to ask questions and have hearings? As I said, the Foreign Affairs Committee only had one hearing on Iraq. They have had five thus far in this Congress, and counting. 
   So I feel very confident about the fact that we are talking about our vision and the leadership; B, we are pointing out the difference between some of the Members on the minority side that want to continue to carry out the old way and the Members on the minority side that want to move in a new direction. I am glad that they are there. 
   My last point, we have five Members in the majority here on a Wednesday afternoon when we are going to recess for the week that has the will and the desire. We have the will and desire to continue to let the American people and the Members know that we want to lead and we want to lead this country in a new direction and we want to work in a bipartisan way. 
   We could be home. We could be somewhere else. My kids are back in the cloakroom right now. I could be having dinner with them. But this is important. I want them to know, and when historians look at what was happening during a time when we had two wars going on, we have a President wanting to escalate with troops and the American people saying we don't want it, we have the country in a deficit, and then we have Members here crying about a project was cut out of the bill and I am upset about it. 
   I am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that we are here on this floor, and I am glad that we are representing on behalf of the American people. We are not the Democratic National Committee. We are Members of Congress. And it should not be the Republican National Committee, it should be Members of Congress. That is what makes this House  work, and that is the reason why it worked today on the continuing resolution. 
   I am very happy that we did pass this continuing resolution. I am so glad that 57 Republicans joined Democrats in passing this continuing resolution, because it is showing that we are actually moving in a new direction, not just Democrats are moving in a new direction, but the U.S. House of Representatives is. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS TRIBUTE TO THE HONORABLE STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Madam Chairman. 
   I would like to thank my leader and colleague from the great city of Detroit, Ms. Kilpatrick, for yielding the balance of the time. We will continue to go down the list I have been given here, Mr. Speaker, as we continue to honor our fallen colleague. 
   Next on this list I have Congressman Danny Davis from the great State of Illinois, a very good friend of the Congresswoman, Stephanie Tubbs Jones. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS TRIBUTE TO THE HONORABLE STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I thank you so much, Congressman Davis. And she was very proud of the fact that she was able to work with you on the Second Chance Act, and was there when the bill was signed. 
   I want to call on my very good friend and STEPHANIE's good friend, I call her my Brooklyn Congresswoman, Congresswoman YVETTE CLARKE from the great State of New York. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS TRIBUTE TO THE HONORABLE STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Congresswoman. And I know that Ms. TUBBS JONES meant so much to you. 
   I would like to call on another good friend and new friend, but a colleague of Congresswoman STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES, Ms. DONNA EDWARDS from the Fourth District of Maryland, who posted her condolences statement on the 21st of this month, Mr. Speaker, the passing of Ms. TUBBS JONES. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS TRIBUTE TO THE HONORABLE STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much for that very kind and moving dedication to Congresswoman TUBBS JONES. 
   One of my good friends from California, LAURA RICHARDSON, who has taken this Congress by storm and has worked very well in the 37th Congressional District of California, Mr. Speaker, it is very unique having women that have come to Congress because, as you know, the Congressional Black Caucus has been hit hard this particular Congress with losing three women of our caucus in this 110th Congress alone. And all of them played a very substantial role. 
   This next speaker is, I wouldn't call a replacement, but an addition to that greatness as we continue to march on to allow good representation from all over the country here, Congresswoman LAURA RICHARDSON. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS TRIBUTE TO THE HONORABLE STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Congresswoman. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am just going to yield time for my good friend and a good friend of my mother's, Congresswoman Carrie Meek, Marcy Kaptur, who is the Dean of women here in the House, longest serving woman on the Appropriations Committee, and also Dean of the Ohio delegation that held an hour prior to this one as we dedicated a resolution and condolences of the House to Stephanie Tubbs Jones. 
   And as she sat here listening to the stories and testimonials of members of the Congressional Black Caucus of how we remember Stephanie Tubbs Jones, I turned around and I said, Marcy, do you have anything else that you would like to share with the House? And she said, I want to talk about the red dress. So I want to hear this too. I yield to Ms. Kaptur. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS TRIBUTE TO THE HONORABLE STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much. And Marcy, I just want to thank you for being a good friend of Stephanie's, and continuing to carry the flag here in the House. 
   I would like to bring on another Member, a great Member of Congress, and she is a good, good sister of Stephanie's, was a good friend and traveled to Cleveland in between Stephanie's departure and her homegoing service to be with Stephanie's family. And we know her as Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee. And she was another fighter here in Congress that sleeps with her fists balled up. And Stephanie and her were sisters as it relates to that. So my good friend from the great State of Texas, Sheila Jackson-Lee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS TRIBUTE TO THE HONORABLE STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Congresswoman. And it is a very kind tribute and kind words given to our colleague. 
   Mr. Speaker, I just want to take the remainder of our time just to speak a few minutes on reflection of my friend and colleague, Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones. I can say that there has been several days of reflection and testimony to her life and her presence here in this Chamber. 
   I can also share with the House, Mr. Speaker, that this tribute will continue on Wednesday. The Speaker has called a memorial service of the House and of the Congress in Statuary Hall at 11 a.m., so those Members of the House or staff and friends can come and reflect and hear further stories of Stephanie and her contributions to this great country.     
   The Congressional Black Caucus Foundation will host a reception for all in the Rayburn room afterwards, which we will post pictures of Stephanie and the contributions that she's not only made to this country but also to young people who are walking the Halls of Congress. She spearheaded efforts within the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation to provide internships and fellowships for so many students who ordinarily wouldn't have the opportunity to do it working along with our Congressional Black Caucus spouses. 
   I came to the Chamber today with mixed feelings. It was a special kind of warmness that hit me when I walked into the Chamber because so many times we would have the chance to talk and laugh and talk about things that took place either over the weekend or over the break. And ``Stephanie Hall,'' like leader Boehner talked about a little earlier today, her office is right down the hall from my office, and we served on the Ways and Means Committee together. So it's almost like not only Congresswoman Tubbs Jones, but her staff and my staff, it was almost like having a good neighbor, someone you can go get a cup of sugar from. Someone you can go sit down and hold common goals with. 
   And we all know--and you heard a lot of folks saying you're going to miss her because she was one of those individuals that you assumed was just going to pop up at any moment. I was talking with my wife when we attended her home-going service in Ohio, and she said, ``It just seems like Stephanie's going to walk up behind us and say, `Hey, what's going on,' '' because that was the kind of unique person that she was. 
   I think during this whole time as I continue to reflect and really live deep in the spirit of how good God is, here in the present to have served with someone like Stephanie, to have folks on both sides of the aisle, to have people who know what it means to punch in and punch out every day when they go to work, those that wake up early to catch the bus to go to work, those that are cleaning hotel rooms, those that are driving the carts at Cleveland Airport. There are so many times that Stephanie would talk to them and make them feel like real people. All of them, including what we may call the ``blue shirts'' here in the Capitol building, those that work here, those that clean, those uniforms, the police officers, everyone knew Stephanie for being the person that will treat them the same way they would treat a Member of Congress or a President or a leader of a country or what have you. 
   I say all of that to say that the best conversation that I keep going back to, and I spoke of this at her memorial service, was a conversation that I had with my mother about Stephanie Tubbs Jones. 
   Stephanie was a member of our family. Period. Dot. And she would travel to south Florida and would do things together with my mother, and they had a relationship prior to my arrival because they were both Delta sisters. And it took me, Mr. Speaker, a while, because my mother and I really work hard to talk every day. And I was holding off from calling her because I said I know if I call her, we're going to get in the middle of this conversation about Stephanie. And sure enough, we did. 
   And my mother, who I consider the person in my family that's closest to the cross--that's not in the way of saying that she's about to pass on, but she's very spiritual--and a woman who has traveled a similar route as Stephanie has traveled in her time. We were talking, and all of a sudden she just rained down on the phone and said, ``Kendrick, she had an appointment with the Maker.'' And that has provided more comfort to me, and I believe to others, of saying that why would she have to have such an untimely death. Well, it's not up to us to say what is timely and what is untimely. That's something that's already planned from birth. 
   And just looking at her trail and her track as we continue to reflect on her light, that God would allow her to play a national role in the primary election and to be judged by others and cherished by certain individuals and to be known nationally and internationally for her presence in the primary election, this Presidential election. And then after the primary is over, be the person, serve as the instrument to bring those that were the two that were running for office against one another together in a special way. And to be able to work on behalf of Senator Obama, to have that opportunity before her death to be able to bring them together at her homegoing service is beyond coincidental. 
   So we have to really look at every day, cherish every day as though it's our last day to serve. 
   Stephanie spent a number of days, a number of hours hugging those that may have had some doubt about her judgment and her actions, but that's the kind of person because she had this uniqueness that very few may have. 
   So I close with this, Mr. Speaker, because I almost feel like a visiting Baptist preacher. If I had time, I would really be able to get into the deepness of Stephanie's presence, and it will always be here in this Chamber. I'm glad she lived life in the way she lived it because so many times those that pass and they move on, they say, ``Goodness. I wish they would have had the opportunity to do this, this, and this,'' and I can't say that about Stephanie because she did it all. 
   She held all of us up. She will continue to hold all of us up, and as long as I'm a Member in this Congress and a Member of the Ways and Means Committee and serving in the leadership position, she will be someone I will never ever forget because she called Tim Ryan and I--you know, we know about Mervyn--but we were her congressional sons. She would put it this way, ``Tim is my white son and Kendrick is my black congressional son.'' And Tim could not be here tonight, but I know he will be here in the future. 
   And I want the Members to know that she loved this body. And we will forever, ever remember her, and we will continue to have this great celebration of life for the next coming days. 
   Mr. Speaker, with that, I want to not only thank our chair, Congresswoman Kilpatrick, who serves as the Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, but all Members of Congress that have come forth this evening to share words of comfort with the family and the country for such a loss of a great leader, a great hero, and someone that has been an icebreaker for so many people.  
   My love and all of our love and our condolences go out to the family and her staff, which was her extended family, here in Congress and back in Cleveland, and to the hundreds of constituents that wrapped the streets to pay their appreciation to Stephanie. 
   And may her spirit live long in the Halls of Congress. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. It is an honor to come to the floor to have the 30-Something Working Group. And as you know, we have been coming to the floor now some 4 years strong, 4 1/2 years, bringing to light issues before the Congress and also the American people on what's happening under the Capitol dome. 
   We have been doing a lot of legislation recently in this 110th Congress that I think should definitely be highlighted every time we have the opportunity to do so. We have a number of pieces of legislation that are in the pipeline right now that are being sent to the White House that the President has threatened to veto. These are priorities that the American people voted for to move in a new direction; need it be in Iraq; need it be domestically; or need it be making sure that we run this government in a fiscal way, one that all Americans, Democrats, Republicans, and independents alike, would like to have. 
   Good government is good. And it's important that we encourage not only the passage of good pieces of legislation but also make sure that we encourage the President to do the right thing, even though he may say from time to time that he is not going to do things, that he will sign pieces of legislation like the Student Loan Reduction Act, which is so very, very important. It cuts student loan rates in half. 
   I want to just commend the Members here in this Chamber, especially in the majority, that pushed the President to sign that bill. I want to thank all of the college kids and students and parents and grandparents that are having to help their young people pay back their student loans and to being able to cut that interest rate in half. 
   I am joined tonight by two of my, and I can say this, bestest friends in Congress: Mrs. Stephanie Tubbs Jones, the chairwoman of the Ethics Committee and a colleague that I serve with on the Ways and Means Committee; and also my good friend Tim Ryan from Youngstown, Ohio, who is a member of the Appropriations Committee that considers himself a very important part of what we do here. As you know, Ways and Means, we find the ways and means, and he says he has appropriated to make sure it all goes to the right place, Mr. Speaker. 
   I guess what we usually do, and what I am going to do, without really making opening comments because we like to have a discussion, I want to allow my two colleagues here to share some of their thoughts with us. But before I do that, today, as you know, in the 30-Something Working Group, we shed light on what is happening in Iraq. We know that we have a number of our men and women that are there in harm's way. We know that we have men and women in Afghanistan and also deployed throughout the world. 
   But as of today, October 3, the total deaths have been 3,808. The total number of wounded in action and returning to duty within 72 hours has been 15,432. The number wounded in action and not returning to duty within 72 hours has been 12,577. The total number of wounded is 27,753. 
   I want to make sure, Mr. Speaker, and we want to make sure, the 30-Something Working Group, that Members know what is going on in the Middle East and that we bring this to their attention and read it into the Congressional Record so that we can every day move towards a position that would take our combat troops out of harm's way and replace them with Iraqi troops. We can provide technical support, but I think that is very important. 
   With that, I yield to my colleague Mrs. STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Madam Chair, I think it's very, very important for us to understand that the President is vetoing the legislation because he knows that his Republican colleagues here in the House and the Senate have his back, at least a number to stop us from overriding his veto. And this is something that, Mr. Speaker, we have to put the pressure on those Members. I'm going to put the pressure on in a few minutes when I get an opportunity to really share what I feel about what the President has done today. It wasn't the perfect bill, but it was the bill that was going to provide health care for children. 
   Mr. Ryan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Mrs. TUBBS JONES.  
   TIM, we used to play football once upon a time, and I remember being on the sideline as a freshman member of the football team. I used to be what they call a ``headhunter.'' I used to break the wedge in kickoff. That's the way I got on the bus to be able to travel. And many times I would sit on the sideline and say, ``Wow, the coach just let me in. I'll sack that quarterback.'' Well, you know, this is one of these moments. I'm so glad that I'm a Member of Congress and it's been federalized by the people of the 17th Congressional District to come up here and represent them and the American people. And I'm proud of the fact that we have passed a children's health care bill that covers children that are in need, that means families, that means a healthier America, that means better test scores, that means lower cost to State and local communities from picking up emergency room bills where they end up getting the care because they have to provide the care, but there's no way to pay for the care, then raise local taxes on the local community because of that lack of health care insurance for that uninsured child. I'm so glad that I've had the experience of walking to a CVS, Wal-Mart, whatever you want to call it, into a drugstore, and I'm glad as a Member of Congress I have witnessed mothers and fathers trying to figure out how they can stop their child from coughing and how can they prevent the sickness that is spreading in some communities based on the fact that it is financially challenged, need it be urban or rural. I'm glad I'm here to give them voice because apparently, Mr. Speaker, there are some Members in this Chamber and there are some Members in the other Chamber over in the Senate that, in my opinion, are failing to represent that side of America. One may say, well, Congressman, I understand, colleague, what have you, you're talking about those other folks, you're not talking about me. Well, guess what? I'm so glad, Mr. Murphy, that I have health care insurance, but I didn't ask my constituents to elect me so that I could have health care insurance and they can't. That's not how this thing works. And my kids, like Mr. Ryan said, they go to school with other kids, and if those kids don't have the necessary insurance to have preventive care to head off some of the major issues that they're going to face because they're getting drugstore care, the best care that their parents can provide for them, they're going to make my child sick. So now we're back to the point of fiscal responsibility and we're back to the point of doing the right thing and good government and where I left off. 
   I'm glad Mrs. TUBBS JONES mentioned that this is a bipartisan bill, passed this House overwhelmingly, passed the Senate with a very good vote. Now the question comes to my Republican colleagues, because the President is not going to run for President again, and the thing about it is that we have term limits on the Presidency of the United States, and that's  been carved out long before my presence here in Congress and long before my mother's presence here in Congress. But Mr. Ryan pointed something out, because I'm putting this back on the Members of the House and the Senate and the Congress, because I don't want Members going home saying, well, you know, the President, and the President this and the President that. My constituents want more than that. It's almost like when I walk into my Baptist church, they want to hear more as a Christian than one day Jesus Christ, he died on Calvary. They need to hear more than that. They need to hear more of a story. They need to hear more of the reason why we practice that certain religion. 
   Putting that aside just for a moment, our constituents have to know more about what's going on here in Washington, DC. That parent needs to know why. The President is saying socialized medicine. Well, that's what he says, that's his Potomac two-step because the average American doesn't even know what you're talking about when you say ``socialized medicine.'' They understand health care.     
   They understand being able to take their child to a doctor and the States understand, the 43 or 46 Governors that are supporting the SCHIP bill, they understand getting a block grant from the Federal Government so they can provide health care for their children. 
   I would like to talk a little bit about what Mr. Ryan mentioned. This President and the past Republican majority here in this House irresponsibly gave tax cuts to billionaires and millionaires and then turned around and gave unprecedented subsidies to oil companies of some $50 billion, $8 billion in lost waste, fraud and abuse of no-bid contracts in Iraq, billions of dollars for schools and roads and clinics in Iraq, stood up here teary-eyed saying, ``We need to help the Iraqi people.'' Well, I want folks to get teary-eyed about helping American children and their families. I want them to get teary-eyed. I want them to get emotional. 
   When you look at this foreign debt hold, no other time in the history of this country have we ever been in the fiscal situation that this President has put us in and the Republican, thank God the minority now, has put us in in the past, and this is what we owe these foreign countries. I am going to move on because I know we have some Members here. 
   Here is another issue. When you look at the cost of the war and how many kids can be enrolled in Healthy Start. I am just going to use the per hour number, $13.7 million, 2,000 kids can be enrolled. And then I am going to jump up here to the 1-year cost, $120 billion for the 1-year cost, 16.7 million kids can go into Healthy Start. Now, that is just Healthy Start. 
   We come to the floor with the facts, not fiction. Here is the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service. I just want to make sure that all the Members are with me on this. The cost of the Iraq war is rising. Again, here are the numbers. Per second. Since I have been here talking a few seconds have passed. Per second, $3,816 is being spent per second. Do you hear the Members down here talking about wasteful spending, anything like that? Meanwhile, we are giving the Iraqi Government all kind of chances. 
   To further drive my point home, here it is, President Bush, Members are familiar with this, doubled the foreign-held debt. It took 42 Presidents 224 years to build up $1 trillion in foreign debt. All these Presidents, this President and his Republican colleagues here in Congress have been able to build up more than 42 presidents, 224 years of history, $1.19 trillion in debt over the last 6 years, and we have turned that around, or are trying to turn that around here. 
   Here they are. These are my Republican colleagues and the President of the United States. Many in this picture are my friends. But I tell you one thing: When we send this and we go to try to override the President of the United States of America and standing in the schoolhouse door not allowing kids to have health care in this country, I want to know, are you going to march down to the White House like you did when we put time limits on this war and accountability on this war to push the Iraqi Government to where they need to be to get our combat troops out of harm's way and to get their troops on the ground? 
   The last time, Mr. Speaker, I was on the floor was Monday with Mrs. Tubbs Jones. I walked downstairs and I don't know his name. But it was one of our people that work here in the Capitol that constantly bring the folks over from Walter Reed on what we call the ``twilight tour,'' walking around here in the Capitol, Mr. Murphy, and getting a tour of the Capitol. I am sorry, his name escapes me at this point. This vet was there with involuntary jerking of his right arm. As a matter of fact, I am shocked that they were even able to save his arm. It was so twisted with cuts and stitches and all those things. But he was happy to walk into this Capitol of great democracy. But guess what? He had a child, too. So we get all excited about, we are for the troops, and I am for the troops, and you are soft and I am hard and all that kind of stuff. That is rhetoric. The real bottom line comes down to, what are you going to do as a Members of Congress? Not as some sort of speech giver or note reader or whatever the case may be. What are you going to do as it relates to being a Member of Congress? Are you going to go down and stand with the President and say, ``I'm with the President''? Or are you going to be with the children of the United States of America? 
   Mrs. Tubbs Jones and I, we have to see the Federal budget when it comes through Ways and Means before it goes to the Budget Committee and we met with the Treasury Secretary just today talking about fiscal responsibility. 
   I think the problem, Mr. Ryan and Mr. Murphy, that the President has with this issue is that the American people asked for a new direction and accountability. Guess what? This SCHIP bill is paid for. We show paid for by saying pay-as-you-go. If you're going to do something, you have to show how you're going to pay for it. At least that's what they said in my house. The President, how did he rack up $1.19 trillion? He didn't worry about paying for it. He just said, let's put it on the credit card. Let's put it on the children. Let's put it on other folks. 
   Children have had enough abuse on the part of the past Republican majority and the President. Now we are trying to bring about accountability in health care and he doesn't want to sign the bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, the bottom line is, I challenge, this is not a WWF kind of experience here, but I challenge my colleagues with a straight face to come to this floor and say otherwise why we should not have health care for children. I want to make sure that Members understand, this is why we're elected, to represent the children, not special interests, not the oil companies, not somebody who said, ``Well, if we spend this on that, I can't get my tax cut.'' It is not all about that. If we can't represent the children of the United States of America, we got a big problem. I am so glad that Speaker Pelosi, I am so glad that our leadership has said, this is what we're going to do, and that we're going to try to override the President. The bottom line is the Republican Members of this House have to join and be with us, which they are on the bill, Mr. Ryan and Mr. Murphy, but we need more of them to override the President of the United States on this very bad veto. 
   Do we have issues with the SCHIP bill? Is everything in it that should be in it? Of course not. But the bottom line is children need health care and they need representation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Mr. Murphy, I am glad that you are part of our majority-making Members that came here and gave house Democrats the majority. And the way it went on in the Senate, even though there is just one majority Member there that put the quit the Senate Democratic majority. But there is still a lot of work to be done. 
   As I sit here, and Mr. Ryan knows and Mrs. Stephanie Tubbs Jones knows, we have been on this floor before in the 108th and 109th Congress, and saying if it was about politics, we would just not come to the floor. We would allow the Republicans, and I am not generalizing, those that are in the position of standing with the President, not with the American people, that works politically for Democrats. The majority will even get greater, Mr. Speaker, if we just sat in our office or we just went to committee meetings and didn't come to the floor burning the midnight oil here tonight. But it is not about politics. It is about the country, and that is the reason we are here. 
   I just wanted to point one thing out. Folks get excited about the war. But you saw the $10 billion figure I had on the whole war cost for, this is a little clearer here, $10 billion right here per month. This whole child health insurance package is $35 billion over 5 years, Mr. Speaker. Five years, $35 billion. That is 3 1/2 months of the cost of the war in Iraq. Five years versus 3 1/2 months. 
   The President's action is one thing. The Republican minority allowing it to stand is another thing. 
   You see, I want to give the American people some homework, because I think it is important. We can't say well, you know, the President, you know, they are not going to have another opportunity to stand in judgment on some given Tuesday on the President of the United States. But they will every 2 years have an opportunity to stand in judgment of every Member of the U.S. House of Representatives. I think that is something very, very important. 
   Also, Mr. Ryan, you know that we have worked very hard on veterans. Mr. Murphy, you know we have worked hard. All of us have worked hard. We have made the largest increase in VA assistance in the history of the republic. Since the VA has been created, it has received more health care assistance from this Congress than any other time, any other time in history. 
   Now, my mother before me who served here in the House said the thing about the House, the main thing about being elected, is bringing your experiences to the floor. I just wanted to take 2 minutes to tell you about an experience. 
   I have a 10-year-old and I have a 12-year-old daughter. We take pride in at least once a week riding the Mall, what we call here the Mall, from the Capitol on down to the Washington Monument on to the World War II Memorial, and we take a hard left to go over to the Jefferson Memorial on our bicycles, and we come around and we go to the Lincoln Memorial. 
   I just wanted for a minute for Members to realize what is going on down there at the Lincoln Memorial. You have the last outpost of Vietnam vets that are there running off a generator for power, standing there for the missing in action, raising money, selling patches and things of that nature, who have to renew their lease 
   every 21 days to stay there on that Mall. They have been there for years, since the Vietnam Memorial was set up. 
   I talk to these gentleman, my kids talk to these gentleman constantly, because they are our heroes. But they are out there showing the medication and the kind of cocktail they have to use to even deal with what happened over 20 years ago. 
   I think when we start looking at governance here in this house, we have got to look at it beyond what the paper is going to print the next day. We have to do what is right on behalf of the country. So when we look at 5 years, a $35 billion program, versus 3 1/2 months of operations in Iraq, we can't help but think of good governance. 
   I want to put the pressure to the point where the Members here willing to stand with the President on this very bad decision in the face of uninsured children in this country, that they make sure that they understand that when folks walk in on some given Tuesday voting for representation, need it be Republican, independent, Democrat, what have you, yes, your  children too, that they didn't walk in grasping the hands of the President of the United States to take some sort of talking notes from some conservative think tank, and I will let you talk about that, to talk about how they are going to deny children health care in this country. 
   I go back to saying nothing is perfect, but I can tell you one thing, it has to be better than what we are facing right now, the program that needs to be reauthorized and children have to have health care. 
   So I want my Republican colleagues that voted against this legislation for all, and as far as I am concerned, and this is my individual reason, I know people have reasons, but I think it was largely political, when you think about it, in the final analysis, I want them to feel the pressure when they step off the plane or the train or the car or whatever the case may be, and I don't care if you are Republican, independent, thinking about voting one day, 17-years-old, you are going to get your voter registration card, put the pressure on your Member of Congress on this issue. 
   I think it is very, very important. The bottom line is, if a Member has a problem with what I am saying, you know, it is a beautiful country. It is America. Thank God the flag is flying over the Capitol right now. I am going to say it. And I think it is important that Members understand that this is serious business. 
   We are down to children now. This is not about somebody walking around with a suit or something on. This is about the children of this country. Not Iraq. Mr. Speaker, time after time, Mr. Ryan, you know, Ms. JONES, Mr. Murphy, you know, as I yield over to my friends, Members come to this floor and pound and shake and throw paper and carry on on behalf of the Iraqi children. 
   What about the American children? What about them? What about those individuals that are catching the school bus in the morning? What about that parent catching the early bus taking their kids to school? What about the folks that work here in this Capitol that have people that live next door to them that don't have health care? What about them? Get emotional about them. Pound and shake your fist about that. 
   I hope we have the kind of paradigm shift when that vote comes up to override the President of the United States, that we have some of our colleagues on the Republican side that go see the wizard; get some courage, wisdom and heart, and stand up against this President, and don't allow those individuals that I see down here that are trying to block democracy from happening coming down here from the White House saying ``stick with us.'' Stick with who? Stick with the President, or the American children? 
   I yield to the gentlewoman from Ohio. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. It is interesting. This guy is an everyday joe and trained Kelly from a young tender age as a boxer. 
   In closing, Mr. Speaker, it is always an honor to come to the floor with Mr. Ryan and Mr. Murphy and Chairman Tubbs Jones. We are so glad to have a chairperson of a full committee on the floor with us. We're not used to that.  
   We look forward to continuing to come back to the floor to share with not only Members but also the American people. It was an honor addressing the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, Mr. Ryan, I want to thank you for sharing not only thoughts about the Members, but also reminding them of the work that has been done and work that needs to be done here on this house floor. 
   I can tell you, Mr. Ryan, that it's very frustrating at times to hear and see some of the finger pointing that goes on not only here under the Capitol dome, but here in Washington, D.C. The work that this 110th Congress has done overshadows the work of the 109th Congress as it relates to accomplishing things on behalf of the American people. And I am very concerned about the fact that Members seem to get a little amnesia on how we got to where we are now. 
   Last week, I had a chart on the floor here. I don't know what happened to it. I'm not accusing anybody of anything. But I was driving the point home of the colleagues on the other side about gas prices and writing the Speaker a letter saying, What are you going to do? You promised a year ago that you would do something about it. What are you going to do? What are the Democrats going to do? The Republican leadership wrote, We stand firm to be with you as it relates to doing something about energy prices or gas prices. 
   And it's interesting because these are the individuals who, especially on the Republican side, were a part of supporting and standing up the 2001 plan and the meeting that took place in the White House with Mr. Cheney and a number of energy companies, which I think was one of the most profitable meetings for the oil industry because they have just hand-over-fist made money since that meeting. And even today I think it was projected or it was announced that it's another record-breaking quarter for oil companies while Americans pay through the nose and small businesses pay through the nose for fuel. 
   I couldn't help but be on I-75 in Florida on my way back to Miami from St. Petersburg about 3 weeks ago and stopped at a Pilot gas station. And I was driving my uncle's truck, and the guy asked for my ID and credit card and all of those things. And I said, Goodness. I had to give my ID. I was paying with cash. I said, This is interesting. I am paying with cash and I have to show you my ID. 
   He said, Well, sir, we have had an uptick in truckers in filling up and pulling out without paying. I said, Wow. That's interesting. I mean with all of the tags and identifying markers identifying the company or the private-owned companies. And he said, I can tell you something--of course, he saw me and didn't think that I was anything like a congressman or anything--but he said, Times are hard out there. I mean, these guys, they can't afford to fill up their truck and make a profit and be able to support their family. Not justifying it, but he said, The higher gas goes, the more protection that soon we're going to have to have someone out there getting tags or doing some sort of check to make sure that they actually put in the amount that they paid for. 
   Saying all of that, that's the reason why, during the self-service days: Pay first, then pump. 
   I'm saying all of that to make the point that times are hard out there. We know. Bread is $3 a loaf. We know this. The fact that rice, even if you go to Costco now you can't buy a 50-pound bag of rice. I mean, it's like being rationed, in a way. And just the price of food all over the world has really exploded. 
   Saying all of that, Mr. Ryan, I think that when we start looking at our work here in Congress, now more than ever, Members, we have to hold first the American people and their will, we have to hold that as our number one priority. 
   Now, let me just mention just a few things, Mr. Ryan, because I'm not going to try to get excited on this issue today because if I do, I may miss something. And I don't want to miss anything because the points have to be made. 
   And I think it's important, Mr. Ryan, as we look at this, and Members, Mr. Speaker, that when we look at the work that has been done in this Congress this week, sending four key bills to the President for his signature, and we really don't have a lot of time to wait and see if he's going to do something because when you look at it, you have to look at the highway bill, the bill that allows competition for important highway and transit projects outlined in the 2005 highway bill which will help promote 40,000 new good-paying American jobs in transportation and construction. I think it's important that people understand that this bill will help stimulate the economy versus slow it down. It's important that the President signs this. 
   When you look at the other pieces of legislation that have passed, these are bills that are key bills, ensuring continuing access to student loans, the Student Loan Act. This is a critical bill that provides students and families with continued uninterrupted access to Federal guaranteed student loans. We're talking about not only this generation but the next generation and working families being able to afford higher education. 
   Traumatic Brain Injury Act of 2008. It comes down to many of our men and women that are in uniform over in Iraq and Afghanistan with explosions that take place and the fact that many of them are affected by the blasts that take place with these IEDs. They will join some 5.3 million Americans that are affected here at home by the same thing. And the Congress has passed this to provide the kind of funding that's needed so they can get the treatment that they deserve. We look forward to the President signing it. 
   But as we look at issues such as energy and fuel, I think it's important that we talk about some of the things, Mr. Ryan and Mr. Speaker, and I know you mentioned something about this whole gas thing because this is hitting home for many of us. 
   The Speaker, last week, called on the President to suspend the purchase of oil for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve temporarily. When you look at this issue, you have to look at it from the standpoint of bringing gas down. What the Speaker has asked for would actually bring the gas prices down to 5 to 24 cents a gallon. This is a critical first step, Mr. Speaker, towards bringing gas prices down so the American people can hopefully afford to put gas in their tanks and small businesses. 
   I met with some independent franchise owners of KFC and Taco Bell establishments, and they were talking about the cost of food and ingredients. One gentleman told us about the fact that his sales are down because American people cannot afford to go into, what you may call these restaurants where you can get a meal under $10, they can't afford to do it as often as they have done it before. Hopefully, the checks and the stimulus package will be able to assist. Not only we're not talking about going out and buying a meal but to be able to provide for their families will help stimulate this economy to help drive down the cost of food and the costs that many small businesses need to survive.  
   Now, I think it's also important, Members, that we look at it from another standpoint, a standpoint of what farmers are having to look at. 
   We had a hearing here on Capitol Hill today that talked about food versus fuel, and the price of food costs, how are we going to bring a balance between biofuels and how we're going to feed the American people in the world through our crops that are here. And that's going to be an interesting discussion, especially as we start looking at shifting from the Middle East and investing in Middle Eastern countries as it relates to energy versus the midwest. And we talked about that, Mr. Ryan and I talked about that a lot the previous two Congresses. 
   But when we started looking at legislation and ideas that will give American people relief now, I think it's important that we look at the letter that the Speaker sent regarding the Strategic Oil Reserve that will bring the price of gas down 5 to 24 cents. 
   I think it's also important to look at measures that we have passed here in Congress and that many of our friends on the other side of the aisle seem to be standing up in the middle, which we call the ``policy door,'' not allowing us to be able to send good pieces of legislation to the President without the President knowing that he has enough Republicans on this floor to withstand an override. 
   Now, there were four bills, and I'm going to turn it back over to you, Mr. Ryan, which was an OPEC bill that we passed that was dealing with--well, a NOPEC bill was dealing with not allowing OPEC oil companies to be able to price gouge Americans, and it allowed the Justice Department to carry out even more enforcement efforts against these, what we call, cartels. 
   Price gouging, also renewable energy and the Energy Security Act, a number of our Republican colleagues on the other side, as you can see this piece of paper here, voted ``no.'' And I think it's important, especially amongst the leadership, it's important that we no longer have that kind of activity going on when the American people are looking for some relief and looking for some enforcement. 
   Something is not right. Something is not clean in the milk. Something doesn't smell right when it comes down to why gas continues to go up and up and up. 
   And it's amazing. There's an uproar about gas, and then it will go down for a minute, then it will be back up some 20 to 15 cents a gallon on top of what it used to cost. 
   So I think, Mr. Speaker and Members, we need to pay very close attention to what is happening on this energy issue but also pay attention to what is getting done. And we're doing a lot here. We've seen a lot. 
   We've sent a lot of good legislation to the President. We hope the President will sign the legislation versus vetoing to make a point that is pointless when it comes down to the forward progress of the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, I agree with everything you just said, outside of throwing the kids in the back of the mini van; us parents, we don't do that. 
   But let me just say real quickly that we look at common sense and we look at the needs of the American people. They want to know what's happening. Every time they look at that gas price board that's in front of the gas station they're thinking about, who's running the government? They're thinking about, who's overseeing this? Who's in a magic room somewhere pushing up these gas prices? And I think it's important that we understand that it's bigger than a debate, that this is really dealing with folks having to park their car. This is dealing with folks who are going through some real hard times. And we have to make sure that we stand up for them. 
   Now, the President may wait a little while and say, well, I'm not going to do what the Speaker asked to do, suspending filling the Strategic Reserve, I'm not going to do it. Maybe he may do it now, I don't know. The first quarter report has come out on the oil revenues. Maybe that may happen, I don't know. I'm not saying that that's the motivation, I'm just saying that the American people need some relief and they need it now. And hopefully they will be able to get it sooner than later because we're having folks, from rising food costs, rising energy costs, finding themselves in a situation where they can't even afford to drive to work or to get their children to school. 
   Also, Mr. Ryan, as I spoke before about our friends on the other side of the aisle, our Republican leadership, we definitely want them to work with us as it relates to driving these energy costs down and then going after the individuals that may have something to do with jacking up the price on the American people. Last week, I talked about the fact that a gallon of gas in Iraq costs, I believe it was between $1.30 and $1.55. Here in the United States, it costs a lot more. And we all know what those costs are, people are reminded every day when they have to go to the pump. I have constituents that are putting something on it every day. When I say ``putting something on it,'' they can't afford to fill their whole tank up. They're putting in $5, $6, whatever the case may be, and just getting less than a gallon and a half of gas because that's all they can afford. And especially for those individuals that have stepped over their budget, taking the credit card out, filling it up with a credit card. That soon adds up because it's not within their budget to pay the $24 or the $50 they have to pay on these credit cards. 
   But I go back to say that fuel in Iraq is a lot cheaper than it is here in the United States. And the U.S. military is spending in the neighborhood of $3 and change in filling a gallon of gas in the same country. So when we start looking out how we're helping Iraq and how Iraq is assisting and appreciating our help, we also have to look at the difference and the disparity in the cost of gas between what our troops and civilian personnel have to pay for a gallon of gas there and what everyday Iraqis pay. 
   So when we look at it from the big picture, Mr. Ryan, we have to look at it from the executive branch level. And I think it's important that the President looks at all of this and takes it all into consideration. But we do need some action. 
   We talk about a commonsense approach--I said it earlier, I'll say it again--on the No Oil Producing and Exploiting Cartels Act, I think it's important that we see the passage of H.R. 2264 that has passed this House. And the Republican leadership has voted against. When you look at the Energy Price Gouging Act, you have to look at it for what it's worth. And this legislation will reduce the burden of rising gas prices on American families by providing immediate relief to consumers by giving the Federal Trade Commission authority to investigate and punish those who artificially inflate gas prices. I mean, I want that, I want it  bad to be honest with you, because I think it's important that if we have these commissions and we have those enforcement agencies, give them what they need. 
   Right now, as far as I'm concerned, the Federal Trade Commission is like a police officer in a high-crime area without a weapon. And I can tell you, there will be no real enforcement there if they don't have the tools that they need to be able to enforce the law when it comes down to it. 
   Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Act of 2008, H.R. 5351, very important piece of legislation. The bill has ended unnecessary subsidies to oil companies in which we're investing in clean and renewable energy. And I think it's important that Americans understand, and also, Mr. Ryan, that every Member of Congress understand, that none of the legislation that I've mentioned thus far would have seen the light of day if it wasn't for the 110th Congress and it wasn't for Democrats allowing it to come to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, Mr. Ryan, I look forward to next week. I look forward to the hearings that will take place under the Dome. Again, democracy will reign. We will be able to continue to move in this new direction that the American people want us to move in. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Nothing wrong with that at all. 
   And I also believe, Mr. Ryan, that through the hard work of not only the staff here that provide us with not only the information that we use to fight on behalf of the American people, but also when we go back to our districts, what we hear from our constituents, we give them voice, we are them. We are representatives of the various parts of the country that we're from, and it's important that we bring that level of frustration here. 
   Speaking of small business men and women, they own a pick-up truck or an SUV, we hear from them, Congressman, it cost me $105 to fill my truck up. And they're still trying to sell their products for the same price, just a little bit more. Everything is going up, up, up, and they're getting priced out. And I think it's important, even from my neck of the woods in Florida, where you have bagel shops, some of them have gone so high up on bagels because of the cost and folks can't afford them. 
   So when you look at it, this is a major, major issue and every American is being touched by it, especially for those middle class families and for those individuals that are what we call our working poor. And so, Mr. Ryan, every day we come to the floor I think it's important we give light to that. 
   I also want to give the numbers on Iraq, as I always do. As of today, May 1, in Iraq, the total deaths are 4,064. The total number wounded in action and returned to duty, 16,567. And total number wounded in action not returning to duty is 13,344. Mr. Ryan, you know, every time I come to the floor I like to read that into the Record so that Members will understand our responsibility of trying to bring the super majority of our men and women home. 
   One last point, Mr. Ryan. I think that when we look at this issue called public service, and I'm speaking to all of the Members, we have to look at it from the standpoint that we're only here for a short period of time. Less than 11,000 Americans have actually had an opportunity to serve in this U.S. Congress. And every day Members should take the responsibility to treat it as though it is their last day to serve and not put something off for another day or another week or another month, because there are people out there that are counting on us and depending on us, as it relates to bringing about health care to their children, bringing down these fuel costs and energy costs, and also making sure that we're able to stimulate this economy in the right way. 
   So with that, I would yield back to Mr. Ryan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (HONORING THE LIFE OF SALLY SMITH, FOUNDER OF THE LAB SCHOOL IN WASHINGTON, D.C. -- (House of Representatives - December 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, with great sadness, I come to the floor today to honor a great American by the name of Sally Smith who passed away just days ago. 
   Sally Smith, during her time here amongst us, was a great American and left a footprint on this country in the area of education like no other in the past. 
   Sally Smith ran and actually founded with her husband the Lab School of Washington. And for someone who has been not only involved in the Lab School, but has a daughter that attends the Lab School, I had an opportunity to learn more about Mrs. Sally Smith and what she did in the very early days at the Washington Lab School. 
   Mrs. Smith and the faculty at the Lab School have done an excellent job in protecting and nurturing all of the young people with learning differences at the Lab School, here in Washington and in Baltimore. 
   On Saturday, December 1, 2007, Mrs. Smith died at the age of 78. Born on May 7, 1929, Mrs. Smith was a native of  New York City and one of four daughters born to Isaac and Bertha Liberman. She graduated in 1950 from Bennington College and earned a master's degree in education from New York University in 1955. 
   In 1976, Mrs. Smith became a professor in the School of Education at American University, where she led the master's degree program specializing in learning disabilities. 
   Tonight, I ask Members of Congress to join me in honoring her life and the gifts that she bestowed upon the world of education. Mrs. Smith's empathy, experience, and creative expression prompted her to create the internationally acclaimed Lab School in Washington, D.C. in 1967. 
   The Lab School is one of the Nation's premier places for students with learning disabilities and an institution that uses arts as a central component to the school's education process. In fact, the Lab School students spend half of the day in highly specialized, individualized classrooms and offer the other half in the arts. 
   Inspired by her pursuit to assure that her youngest son received a quality education, Mrs. Smith created a school designed to educate students diagnosed with one or more learning disabilities. Relying on her intuition and creativity, Mrs. Smith developed the ``academic method,'' which serves as the core of the Lab School's curriculum. The academic method is a nontraditional academic approach founded on the belief that a child's future to learn means that the teacher has not yet found a way to help him. 
   Not only did her academic method lead to her youngest son's academic and professional success, but it has also left behind a gift that has enriched the lives of so many. Her great legacy will continue to live through the success of the current students and adults that attend the Lab School of Washington, D.C., Baltimore, and Philadelphia. In addition, her excellence will live on through her literary works, many of which have earned her recognition. 
   Mrs. Smith was well accomplished in academia and also accomplished in awards, advisory board appointments, and was even highlighted by NBC's Today Show. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it's important that the Members understand that there are many Americans, including myself and including many others, that have been honored by the Lab School of Washington. Those of us that have learning disabilities, auditory processing, dyslexia, what have you, Mrs. Smith gave young people the inspiration and adults the inspiration to pursue beyond their disabilities. Those have been honored by the Lab School because Sally was a part of lifting the hopes and the dreams not only of the students but the parents, people like Magic Johnson, James Earl Jones, and also Danny Glover and Charles Schwab have been honored by the Lab School. 
   We will miss Mrs. Smith, but we know that her legacy and memory will continue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, it is an honor to be on the floor with you. We appreciate all that you have done during your time here in Congress. 
   I can tell you, Mr. Murphy, one of the very important measures that passed today on the House floor was the energy bill, the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act, and I think it is important as we look at this piece of legislation because it is actually paid for, and we pay for it with the subsidies that previous Congresses gave big oil companies, those subsidies they didn't ask for. Well, maybe they did ask for them. 
   I had a chart, Mr. Murphy, in previous Congresses that I used to bring to the floor. I am talking about the meeting Vice President Dick Cheney had in 2001 in his office with all of the major oil executives, and in that chart it showed how profits went up from that point on. 
   ``Profits'' is not a bad word, but when you look at it, especially in how the big oil companies increased prices on individuals that were not only paying taxes, U.S. taxpayers that were paying for the subsidies they were getting, but also were paying more at the pump, and it is so very, very important that we identify that and reverse that. 
   This piece of legislation that we passed today actually does that, H.R. 5351. So many times in America, Americans, they look at Congress and they look at what we do and how we do it and they don't quite understand how it happens to them twice: A, we are subsidizing big oil companies; and, B, why are they paying more for gas. 
   What we have done in this Congress and in previous energy bills that we have passed, we have focused on green and focused on innovation and focused on how can ethanol, and we focused on making sure that cars can go further with less. 
   We have also stood under the banner of investing in the Midwest versus the Middle East. And I think it is important that we continue with that theme. Today's legislation that passed the floor continues that theme. 
   I talked a little earlier about the big five oil companies that recently reported record profits in 2007. Exxon earned $40.6 billion, the largest corporate profit in the history of the United States of America. Some of that came about because of the tax dollars being generated back into dollars that they didn't have to spend. Usually with profits of any business, you take those dollars out to be able to do more and better in the future. Well, we don't have a problem with that happening, but we don't want it to be on the backs of the U.S. taxpayers. 
   I also think, Mr. Murphy, one other point that I want to make, with the economy now and how these energy prices continue to squeeze American families, I think it is important that since August, when the House took up the bill, and the price of oil has risen almost $25 per barrel to a new record high of $102 per barrel today. Gas is up 17 cents a gallon in the last 2 weeks, and up 75 cents from a year ago. Gas prices also doubled on home heating costs, and tripled on American families since 2001. 
   When we start looking at those statistics, we have to do something about  them, and today's legislation does something about them. I am proud to be a Member of the 110th Congress that is turning this ship around as it relates to how the U.S. taxpayers view Congress, one; and two, making sure that we can reverse some of those cake and ice cream giveaways that were given under the Republican-led Congress. 
   I encourage Members to continue to head down this track of assisting U.S. families. And in the 30-Something Working Group, we work hard towards promoting that kind of philosophy, not only within the Capitol building talking here on the floor, but also back in our districts, to talk about the good things that we are doing that will assist U.S. families talking at their dining room table and when they get together for Little League games and whatever, talking about gas prices and talking about making America greener and talking about investing in the U.S. so we can have U.S. jobs. 
   With that, I yield back, but I think it is important that we continue to head down this track. Even though we have had some objections from the other side of the aisle, this is the right thing to do because we are on the side of the American people and not the big five oil companies. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Madam Speaker. It is an honor to be here before the House once again. As you know, the 30-Something Working Group, we come to the floor weekly, if not once, twice, if not twice, three times, to share with the Members the forward progress we are making with a number of pieces of legislation. In some areas we not only need Member help, but we need the American people to stay involved and get involved in certain issues. 
   As you know, last week we talked quite a bit about the children's health care bill that passed in a bipartisan vote here in Congress. We know that we have given Web sites out to the Members so that they can be able to educate themselves even more and also to the American people. I think it is important, Madam Speaker, that we continue in that light. 
   There will be a vote, I believe not this Thursday, but next Thursday, to override the President on behalf of children's health care. There are a lot of editorials that have been written, a lot of pressure that has been applied to the President and also mainly to Members on the Republican side of the aisle that we would need to vote in the affirmative to be able to allow us to do that. 
   I have faith, because I have watched legislation pass. I have watched the President and I have watched Republicans on the other side say that we're not going to increase the minimum wage; we're not going to take part in increasing the minimum wage. And when the American people voted for a new direction, that legislation was one of the first pieces of legislation that came before this House. We voted an overwhelming affirmative, the whole Congress. 
   The President was kind of stutter-stepping on it, and, all of a sudden, he signed it, even though he said he wouldn't sign it. That is not because of an act of the Members of Congress. That is because the American people were involved in that process and thought it was very, very important. A supermajority of the American people called their Members of Congress and said this is important, we must do this, and it is important for our economy. 
   The same thing as relates to the student loan interest rate. We cut it in half. The President said he would not sign that bill. It was not just because of the act of the Democratic majority moving in a new direction, it was because the American people got involved in that process and President Bush changed his mind. 
   I think it is very, very important for us, and I just want to say this to the Members and also to staff, maybe it is important for us to get the time that the President signs these bills late Friday at like 7:30 in the afternoon before he goes to Camp David. If the President signs it in broad daylight or at night, as long as he signs the bill and allows the American people to get what they deserve, a piece of the pie. 
   I am going to yield right now, because I know that I have a couple of colleagues that are here that want to shed some light on action. We have finished votes. 
   I just want to say also, Madam Speaker, our colleague, Congresswoman Davis, our hearts go out to her family and also to her constituents and also everyone that she has touched in her lifetime. We served together, I believe on Armed Services, and even though she was on the Republican side of the aisle, we were colleagues here in Congress. She served to the very end, and I am forever grateful to her family for allowing her to serve and be a part of this body, to serve the American people. 
   I know that over the coming days, tomorrow, I believe, will be her home-going service, that there will be further reflections on her life. 
   With that, I would like to yield to Mr. Murphy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Ms. Wasserman Schultz and Mr. Murphy, I can't help but think of the action that we are taking here in Congress, and we know that we have some of our friends on the other side of the aisle that don't necessarily see it our way. But because the American people are involved in what we are doing, because we are moving in a new direction, we are giving the American people what they asked for. That is what is supposed to happen. You run for office and say what you stand for. The people send you to Washington. Some races are closer than others. Or you are reelected to Congress and you come here to represent the people. 
   I see a pattern. You showed a picture of some of our friends on the other side of the aisle running down to the White House saying we are going to stand with you, Mr. President, not to allow the Congress to override, article I, section 1, of the U.S. Constitution.     
   I want you to talk about that a little later. There's something blowing through the air conditioning ducts, I guess, here in Congress and in the White House. One would be in disbelief of the fact that we actually have a say in what happens in this government because we appropriate the necessary dollars. We put forth the policy to be able to get the revenue to run the country. 
   I just want to say that some things that we have done here we can claim victory on, and I think we need to talk about a few of those things. We can claim victory on passing a children's health care bill with a bipartisan vote. This was not just powerful Democrats that voted. There are a number of Republicans that voted in both chambers. We have quotes on the Speaker's Web site. I believe it's, what is it, 45 Republicans over here and 18 Republicans in the Senate. And on www.speaker.gov you can go on the Web site and get the quotes of our Republican colleagues that spoke so very highly about this bipartisan piece of legislation. 
   You know something, we're putting in the work. We're putting in the work. I mean, the House last week held its 943rd rollcall vote of the year, and I mean of this year, breaking a previous record of 942 votes. That mark was set in 1978, and we're well on our way to taking care of the country's business of heading into a higher number of at least 1,000 votes by the end of this year. People wanted us to go to work. We're working now. We're working now. If it wasn't for the loss we had here in Congress, we would be working tomorrow. 
   But the bottom line is this, Madam Speaker, is that we have to continue to move down the track of responsibility, and that's the reason why we come to the floor because we want the Members to feel the pressure. 
   You might have seen me moving around here on the floor because, as Ms. Wasserman Schultz can tell you, my good friend from Florida, and Mr. Murphy can tell you, that we pride ourselves, Madam Speaker, on making sure that we share accurate information with the Members and the American people. That's just where it is. We don't talk about fiction. We just talk about facts. 
   Now, earlier today we had H.R. 3056. What does that mean? There's a lot of House bills that are around, but this bill was actually a very, very important bill to the U.S. taxpayer. It dealt with the Tax Collection Responsibility Act. 
   We had tax collectors that the Republican majority put it in power to have the phone numbers of every American taxpayer, and they were so-called to ring in dollars of individuals that are not paying taxes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Private. I mean, these are private tax collectors that we ended up spending more money paying them than what they collected, and then they turned around and there's an instance of when an elderly couple received 150 calls in the course of 27 days. Now, anyone that knows anything about people calling your home that you don't want calling your home, and they're calling for someone else, they're calling the Murphy household and they're asking for the Johnson family, and you keep telling them that, no, the Johnson family doesn't live here, what we did today was to do the right thing on behalf of the American taxpayer by passing that piece of legislation that repealed the IRS authority to enter into private debt collector contracts. I think that's very, very important. 
   Also, when you look at it from a fiscal responsibility piece, Madam Speaker, and we're talking about being responsible, you have to look at this whole issue of the study that shows that the IRS employees that are employed by the IRS is 13-1 on what they can collect from what the private collectors are actually able to collect. 
   Also in that great piece of legislation was something that we all feel very strong about, the 1-year suspension on the 3 percent, 3 percent that is collected from small businesses up front when they contract with local governments, and a number of other issues that were in that bill. 
   I'm saying all of this to make this point: 210 Democrats voted for it; 22 Republicans voted for it. Now, one can say that's a bipartisan vote, but when you look at 164 Republicans voting against something that, on its surface, you don't have to dig far, the numbers, when we had hearing in Ways and Means on it, the numbers represent the true meaning of what has not happened and contracting with a private company to call the taxpayers of this great country of ours and not doing the job that they set out to do, that they ended up getting a real paycheck at the end of the day, which they didn't even do the work, and then better yet, they're calling individuals' homes that already paid their taxes, because the accountability was not there. 
   I think it is very, very important. I just want to make sure that it is very important that we highlight these issues and we talk about the success that we're having here in Congress where we need our Republican colleagues to join us, but we're still pushing forward because the good thing about it is the fact that the American people are with the new direction agenda, and it's their agenda. We're just a vehicle to allow it to happen, need it be children's health care, need it be cutting student loan interest rates in half, need it be increasing the minimum wage, need it be what we're doing and what's at the President's desk on the issue of energy. 
   I mean, we have all these issues. Some were the 6 in '06 that we talked about. Some were ideas we picked up along the way that we thought was very, very important. 
   As we continue to move down this track, I just want to share with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle that it is not necessarily or if it is something of a Democratic idea, because when you see votes like this, I can't help but think as a legislator going into my 14th year of public service, you have me by 2 years, to see a vote like this vote, that was obviously a good vote to take on behalf of the American people and to go the opposite way, if it was just merely politics, then I would say, well, you know, let's just go back and sit in our office and allow them to continue to take these votes. 
   But when we start looking at how we are going to deal with the war in Iraq, you called those numbers out of how many children I mean by day, by week, by month, by days that can receive health care, and just like this, $3,316 I think are spent every second in Iraq when children can receive health care. 
   And so when you look at it, I mean, when we start talking about why and it should work itself out or it's the right thing to do, it's something that's happening around here that we haven't quite uncovered yet. But I don't have a lot of time, Madam Speaker, to try to uncover the problem on the other side of the aisle. I don't. 
   I'm with the Speaker and I'm with the majority leader and I'm with the majority whip and I'm with the Chair of the caucus and the Vice Chair of the caucus and all of the leadership folks that are running around here in the different caucuses and saying that the American people sent us here to go to work. We've gone to work. We've already broken records. We're on our way to break another record as it relates to  what we're doing on behalf of the American people. 
   But that's something that Members are going to have to explain back home if they're taking these unpopular votes, when one may say the blind leading the blind and two shall fall down in the ditch, that should happen. That's what we used to stay when I was on the football field at Florida A&M. 
   The real issue here is we should feel good about what we have accomplished. We should feel good that the American people are on board. We're on board with the American people. We're carrying out their agenda, and that's Democrat and Republican, too. I don't want an American that opens their wallet and, you know, look at their voter registration card and say, well, I'm a Republican, Congressman Meek is not talking to me. I'm talking to you because when you look at fiscal responsibility, when you look at this issue, this is your wallet, too. When we cut interest rates in half, the President didn't want to do it. You wanted it to happen, Republican, independent, nonvoter, Democrat, you wanted it to happen. That was a bill for you, not for the three of us, for you to cut your interest rates in half. So when we look at these issues, we have to look at a functional government, that we have responsibility, and then we have to put the partisanship aside. 
   One thing I can say, that we have passed major pieces of legislation in a bipartisan way and have allowed Republican input that has not been the case, I know and I can attest, for the 108th and 109th Congress. 
   I say all of that to say that I think it's important that we continue to paint the picture, especially for our colleagues that are not voting when it's abundantly clear of why you should vote for something. I mean, someone had to say don't vote for it, and then they say, okay, I'm not going to vote for it. There has to be a reason why, when you empower private debt collectors to have private information, you know what I'm talking about because I know you wear that privacy hat, privacy information of your personal information, okay, and they abuse and they fail in the mission of collecting the dollars that they're supposed to collect from individuals that are not paying their taxes. And then to turn around and see numbers of cases of abuse where individuals have been called over 150 times that have been documented over a period of 27 days to an elderly couple and still you come to the floor and vote no? I mean, I just don't understand it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I know we have it for the record, but I just want, when folks open the Congressional Record, that they can see that number twice, because that's the point even driven further down the street as it relates to why would you vote against something like this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Let's just engage in a conversation here. I mean, the real issue is this: It's not an isolated incident, and that's the reason why many of our Republican colleagues that were here in the 109th Congress is now reading about what Congress is doing in their hometown paper in an involuntary retirement. It's not like they said, oh, I just don't want to be your Congressman here anymore. 
   No, they took votes that were unpopular, and when I say unpopular, one person may say, well, leadership, you're supposed to lead, but when you have a bill like the bill that is in question here, H.R. 3056, and I encourage the Members, staff and what have you because maybe there may be another opportunity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. We are going to start closing out here, and this is something we don't ordinarily do. We are going to end up leaving 10 minutes left open. I mean, there is just so much information we want to share, but we know that the House has to continue, but I want to recognize Ms. Wasserman Schultz. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I want to thank the Members for what they have done this far, the majority of the Members in this House, and that is including some of our Republican friends that have voted for a number of these measures that the American people want, Republicans, Democrats, you name it, those that are involved in other parties and those that are thinking about voting. We have to show that we are a functional House and that we can be able to provide the leadership, when necessary, to be able to run the country in a way that it should be operated, especially on appropriations and on the finance and tax hand. 
   I want to thank the Democratic leadership for allowing us to have the hour. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (TAX COLLECTION RESPONSIBILITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in general support for H.R. 3056, which as a primary mission puts a stop to the harassing nature of private tax collection on a targeted group of American citizens, those least responsible for the ever-growing tax gap problem. 
   However, I rise to speak in particular about section 3 of the Chairman's mark which delays implementation of the 3 percent withholding requirement made by section of 511 of last year's Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005, also known as TIPRA. 
   Section 511 requires all levels of government with at least $100 million in annual procurements to withhold 3 percent of payment on most procurement contracts. 
   The Conference Report for the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005 states that section 511 would impose an intergovernmental mandate not previously considered by either the House or the Senate. 
   The costs of this mandate on government would likely exceed the $64 million threshold established in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act for public-sector mandates. 
   The costs of this mandate would also likely exceed the annual $128 million threshold established in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act for private-sector mandates. 
   I am concerned this provision will seriously impact small businesses that routinely provide goods and services to the Federal, State and local governments, and those governments themselves. 
   For example, withholding 3 percent of payments to a primary contractor could hamper cash flows needed to meet operating expenses, pay suppliers or subcontractors, or meet payroll. 
   Any loss of small business involvement in government contracting is likely to have a negative effect on government costs associated with procurement contracts. 
   The withholding requirement would also create a new financial burden on the local governments responsible for administering withholding and forwarding these types of payments to the IRS, both in the increased need for new software and manpower, and in the likely increase in contract values as businesses seek to pass the 3 percent on to their government clients. 
   The 3 percent withholding was originally approved in an effort to narrow the ``tax gap.'' Like most, I believe that Congress should ferret out non-compliance to the best of our ability. Still, efforts to bridge the ``tax gap'' should  be weighed first against the potential for ``collateral damage to honest taxpayers and local governments.'' 
   Annual procurements by Federal, State, and local governments add up to hundreds of billions of dollars, yet a one year delay, as mandated in the legislation before us, costs only $44 million, hardly the amount that would be expected if there was rampant noncompliance among contractors. 
   The language also requires the Department of the Treasury to study the negative affects that section 511 would have and report those to Congress. 
   There are too many questions left unanswered to go forward with the implementation of section 511, questions that we have a pretty good idea of the answers to. 
   I applaud and thank my Chairman, Congressman RANGEL, for giving this issue a spotlight on a bill that is of high priority to him. 
   We know that this is a starting point to full repeal of section 511 and with the continued grassroots support from the Government Withholding Coalition of private industry and the many public sector groups like the National Association of Counties, I feel confident that we will find the Ways and the Means to do away with this onerous requirement.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Mr. Ryan. Thank you for yielding. So kind of you. My good friend from Ohio. 
   Mr. Ryan, you know, yesterday when we were down here, we talked about the bipartisan votes, the fact that we are allowing an opportunity for the Members of Congress to vote for good commonsense, good government legislation that they have been denied of voting on for 12 years. And now we are in the majority, and we have an opportunity to put legislation forth. And as Ms. Wasserman Schultz experienced in the last Congress, we had, Madam Speaker, very few bipartisan votes because it was the bills that came to the floor that encouraged a lack of bipartisanship. As a matter of fact, it encouraged partisanship, to keep us divided. And that is not what Americans asked for. They didn't say, hey, Congressman, I am sending you to Washington, D.C. to be a partisan. I am sending you to Washington, D.C. to make sure that we have accountability; to make sure that we are fiscally responsible; to make sure that we hopefully move in a new direction when we need to move in a new direction. 
   And I am so happy today, with this whole Accountability in Contracting Act, that there were 347 votes in the affirmative. Madam Speaker, I am more concerned about the 73. How do they go back home and say, well, I don't believe in accountability in contracting; I'm against that. You know, I would think that the folks that did vote against this very good piece of legislation are probably going down the line of saying that I am committed to being a partisan, because it wasn't my idea or it wasn't their idea. Well, the good thing that I am excited about, because I am not going to focus on the individuals who decided not to vote for it, I am going to focus on the 119 Republicans that did vote for it and the 228 Democrats that did vote for it. Every last Democrat that was voting on that bill voted in the affirmative because it was the right thing to do. And I commend the bipartisanship, and we will continue to talk about that. 
   Whistleblower protection, we talked about that yesterday, such a good vote. I am going to say it again, Madam Speaker: 331 voting in the affirmative. Bipartisan, the House. The majority of the House voted to protect whistleblowers 
   Mr. Ryan, someone is in there in an office somewhere here in Washington, DC, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, or in a regional office in Atlanta and come to work every day saying that this is not the way we should be doing things. This is against the law. That individual will be protected once we get it through the legislature, once we get it through the Senate and hopefully to the President. 
   But what I am more concerned about, Ms. Wasserman Schultz and Mr. Ryan, is that the President has already said of these accountability measures that we are passing that he is willing to veto three out of four of them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Which is very interesting. I don't know of the 73 that voted against it today, if that is going to be the basis for saying that that is the reason why I am going to veto it, because 73 Members of the House voted against it. But neither be here nor there, I am glad that we are here in the majority, Madam Speaker. We have been in the minority, but we still have not allowed the majority to get to our heads or to our heart. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. We are not letting it get to our heads or our heart or the reason why we are here in the first place.  
   And the reason why the 30-something Working Group continues to come to the floor, Madam Speaker, because some folks thought, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, this is just a minority project. Oh, they are in the minority, they want to go to the floor, they want to talk about what's wrong, they want to talk about what they will do if they ever get in the majority, and that will be it. Well, guess what? We are here in the majority celebrating the fact that we are doing the things that we said we would do. I mean, that is a paradigm shift in Washington politics: you run for office and you come here and you actually do what you said you were going to do. And now that is being carried out. 
   We have always said some of our friends on the other side of the aisle wanted to be a part of good government, 6 in `06, implementing the 9/11 Commission. We were able to get 299 votes with 68 Republicans voting with us on that. Raising the minimum wage, we were able to get 315 votes with 82 Republicans voting with us. Funding on enhancement of stem cell research, H.R. 3, 253, with 37 Republicans, on and on and on. And the reason why that is happening is not because Republicans all of a sudden say, hey, I want to vote with Democrats and I am going to be bipartisan. They are voting because they always wanted the opportunity, Madam Speaker, to vote for good legislation. 
   Back home, I am going to tell you right now, there are Republicans that are saying I wanted the 9/11 recommendations to be fully implemented to protect America. They don't care who is the leader of the Republicans in the House and who is the leader of the Democrats in the House. They want to be secure. And those Republicans that voted with Democrats to implement every last one of those 9/11 recommendations did so on behalf of their constituents. 
   So we come to the floor to talk about bipartisanship. We come to the floor because we have always said bipartisanship can only be allowed, Madam Speaker and Members, if the majority allows it; and we are allowing it. 
   Ms. Wasserman Schultz. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, if you would yield. I mean, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, we were just talking just the other day about outing CIA agents; we were just talking about it. And in the last Congress folks were like, why are you all speculating? We are not speculating, I mean, someone is not telling the truth. Now a court of law said that people did know certain things. And you are right, Mr. Ryan, I mean, the most endangered job, especially if you are on the other side of the aisle, is to be chief of staff. Now people are looking at the chief of staff in a different way than they have done before in the past.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I know Ms. Wasserman Schultz will be returning soon, but while we have two high level members of the House Appropriations Committee on the floor at the same time, since you share with me how important the Appropriations Committee is, we need to talk about what's going to happen next week, because I think it's important that the Members understand that we are carrying out a great mission here. 
   On Tuesday, I know the House will meet at 10:30 for morning business, and we will consider suspension bills, what have you, but we are going to have on the floor next week H.R. 1227, which is the Gulf Coast Hurricane Housing Recovery Act. That is going to resolve many of the issues that gulf coast States and States in the future will face, and will allow us, allow the Federal Government to work in an appropriate way versus an inappropriate way of not being prepared for the needs of the American people. 
   Then on Wednesday we are going to deal with U.S. troop readiness and accountability act, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act. Mr. Ryan, you and I were talking about this yesterday, and you were marking it up, or you have marked it up in the Appropriations Committee. 
   I think it's important that we share with the Members, as they break to go home back to their districts, that the real story within this bill is that it has accountability, that it is protecting the troops in a way that the Department of Defense has said that they should be protected, using their own rules and regulations for readiness. 
   Now, what does that mean? That is to assure, Mr. Ryan, as you mentioned yesterday, that they have what they need when they go into theater, that it is already there before they get there. They have things that are simple like Kevlar vests, up-armored vehicles, to make sure that they have appropriate downtime before they are put back into the theater. These are Department of Defense regulations. These are not regulations that we came up with here in Congress, this is Department of Defense regulations. So we took those regulations and put it into this legislation. 
   Looking at holding the Iraqi government to the benchmarks that the President spoke about, when he spoke of his escalation on plan, it's holding the President and also the Iraqi government accountable for benchmarks as it relates to continued funding. Also, I mentioned the strategy of redeployment of U.S. troops by 2008. I think that is very important. 
   Yesterday I read some poll numbers, Mr. Ryan, that the American people are far ahead of the Bush administration on this issue. Guess what, we are helping the American people make sure their message makes it into law, makes it into this great emergency supplemental that has teeth in it and that has benchmarks for accountability and fiscal responsibility. 
   Also, when we look at refocusing military efforts on Afghanistan and fighting terrorism, it's in the bill. What is also in the bill is expanding funding for veterans health care and hospitals. Our track record is clean on this, $3.6 billion went into veterans health care prior to the Walter Reed story breaking, prior to this emergency supplemental, and the continuing resolution that we passed almost a month ago. 
   If we can talk a little bit about this legislation, the legislation is coming up next week, but talk about the significance, not only of housing for individuals who are in gulf coast areas, but also the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act. You all just had a great discussion on it today. 
   Can you share it with the Members so they know exactly what they are voting on next week? You know, in the 30-Something Working Group, we hate to see Members that don't fully understand what they are voting on, because when they go back home and a veteran walks up to him and says, Congressman, Congresswoman, why didn't you vote for additional funding for veterans health care, or when they go to a military base, a Reserve unit, National Guard or Active duty, and they say, well, Congressman, Congresswoman, why are you putting me back into the theater and I just left the theater 120 days ago? That is against Department of Defense regulations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I have to run to the whip's office for an important meeting. I am a member of the Ways and Means Committee. Maybe you all will get a call. I know you are all important, you may get a call as members of the Appropriations Committee to go to the Democratic whip, office of the majority whip, but let me just say this very quickly, the men and women in uniform are standing by for us to sling-shot them in. They want us to stand up for them. 
   Mr. Ryan, I told you the other day a great Ohio saying, you have to have these sayings in Washington, D.C. and in politics, where they said that we have to remember that the field mouse is fast, but the owl can see at night. It's important that every Member of the House remember why we are here in the first place. People voted for us, you mentioned families, people voted 
   for us to stand up for them, not stand up for a political party or to stand up on behalf of, oh, well, my President is in the White House. 
   Guess what, the President is the President for the entire country. I don't say your President, he is my President too. When we have issues such as this and we have supplementals, the President said we had a nonbinding resolution, it's nonbinding. 
   Guess what, this is binding. For folks who are looking for a binding document, this will be a binding document with accountability measures. I hope the two of you as members of the Appropriations Committee can go into it further, because we do have some Members that are on the fence, and we want those Members to vote on behalf of the continuing emergency supplemental so that the troops get what they need. They want us to stand in for them. They want to make sure that we make sure that we sling-shot them in for a win for a change, and this is on behalf of the men and women in uniform, our veterans have been waiting for them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (PROGRESS IN PASSING LEGISLATION -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. It's an honor to be before the House once again, and I think it's important that we get a chance to come to the floor and not only share with the Members the 30-Something Working Group, some of the issues that we have worked on in the past, but those issues that we will continue to focus on in the future. 
   With this being the ``political season'' for those Presidential candidates, there's still a lot of work to be done here in the Nation's Capital on policy issues that are facing real consideration before this House and before the Senate. One may focus on what is happening in the campaign trail. But I want to share with the Members tonight, Mr. Speaker, on what has taken place here in the Democratic House of Representatives, majority, and also how this House has worked with a number of our Republican colleagues on the other side in passing major legislation that has made it to the floor that would allow Republicans and all Members of the House to work together on issues that the American people are hoping that we can come together on. 
   This House has made progress in passing some 177 pieces of key legislation, more than 70 percent with a significant bipartisan vote. As it relates to the recent past of the last three terms that I have been here, we have never seen those kind of numbers before. It's important that Members on both sides of the aisle are able to come together on legislation that all of our constituents can agree on and that we can illustrate to those that are out there that are saying, Well, you know, can Democrats and Republicans work together, can Democrats put forth legislation that Republicans can vote for,  can Republicans vote for measures that Democrats bring to the floor, and I think through the leadership of the Speaker and the majority leader and also the majority whip and Democratic caucus and the vice chair and the rest of our leadership, the proof is in the pudding. 
   I want to say that the 177 measures that have gone through this House and the 70 percent that have passed with a significant bipartisan vote is what the American people called for, what they wanted. So many Members of the House ran on, I am going to Washington, DC to represent you, I am going to Washington, DC to make sure that you pass sensible legislation, and I am not necessarily running to be a part of the Democratic caucus or to be a part of the Republican caucus or carry a special-interest interest. 
   I think that when we looked at the new direction that the American people were looking for back in the 2006 elections in November, they got it. Measures that would have never made it to the House floor have made it to the House floor. 
   I have to speak of a number of my colleagues that were on the floor prior to our new Democratic majority back in the Republican-led Congress that said, If you give us the opportunity to lead, we will lead in a way that you will be proud and that you would feel good about the leadership that you have in the House of Representatives. We were not only--I mean we weren't speaking to just independents, we weren't even speaking to just Democrats. We were speaking to all Americans, including Republicans and those that could not even vote yet, that they would have a voice on this floor, that they would have an opportunity to see a majority that would allow legislation to come to the floor that would change their lives. 
   I also would like to say out of the 177 key measures that were passed, 125 of those measures had the support of more than 50 Republicans in this House. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, you're a part of our new majority makers that are here. I think that it's important that we reflect on the past so we can see what the future is going to be about. I see a bright future in this House, you see a bright future in this Congress, and I think if the American people engage themselves as Americans and not as Democrats or Republicans or independents or Green party, or what have you, saying that they are looking for a House that would provide the kind of opportunities that they deserve for a Congress, for a government, provide the opportunity that they deserve, and they can find faith in what the 30-Something Working Group will share with you tonight. 
   These bipartisan votes that have been signed by the President include the Economic Stimulus Act, College Cost Reduction and Access Act, the 9/11 Commission Recommendations. For instance, let me put a pin right there. The 9/11 Commission recommendations was supported and was a bipartisan commission that brought about these recommendations under a Republican President, a Republican Congress, that the Republican Congress would not endorse and would not pass and the President did not support. But once this Democratic Congress allowed that legislation to come to the floor as part of our Six in 06 measure, we were able to get bipartisan support for that measure, and the President signed. So it goes to show that being in the majority does help. 
   Also, the Innovation Agenda bill, the Lobbying and Ethics Reform, minimum wage, a bill for improving and expanding Head Start, and historic energy independence and security bill that reduced dependency on foreign oil, I think it's very, very important that we focus on those issues. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, I think it's important that we look at the future because we have so many issues that are before us even before we finish this 110th Congress. We have to start to focus not only on how we are going to find ourselves bringing our men and women home, and there was a vote last week that was very historic. Never before since I have been here in this House that the House has voted in the majority to not continue to fund the failed policies of the Bush administration as relates to the war in Iraq. 
   I also think that it's important that as we continue to consider how we are going to approach on an emergency supplemental, approach the emergency supplemental that the President has asked for to continue to fund the war in Iraq, that if I could put it this way on Navy terms, If we shoot a shot over the bow of those individuals that are in Iraq, what I may call the Iraqi parliament, and let them know that the United States of America will not continue to give a blank check to the fact that they have not made the political reforms that they need to make so that the U.S. taxpayer dollar will be spent in an appropriate way to enable the Iraqi government to stand up on their own feet so that we are able to provide the necessary resources to our constituents here in our country and here in our districts. 
   I also think that it's important, Mr. Speaker, as we start to look at these issues, we look at the largest increase in veteran funding in the history of the Veterans Affairs Department, preparing for our men and women to come back so they can receive the kind of assistance that they deserve because they allow us to salute one flag. 
   I think it's also important, Mr. Speaker, and also for the Members who realize that even though we may disagree on a number of issues, and they are a number of issues that we disagree on, we can, if you ever heard this, agree to disagree.     
   But when it comes down to the votes here on this House floor for our folks back home, I think it is important that we hold their hopes and their dreams paramount in that debate. And because of the kind of leadership that we have within our caucus, some 177 key votes, 125 of those votes receiving over 50 percent Republican support, it goes to show you or show the American people and also Members of Congress how we can come together on behalf of the greater good. 
   I know that Mr. Murphy has joined us, and I want to yield some time to him so that he can share as not only a new Majority Maker, but also as a member of the majority, as we look at the future, as we look at bipartisanship that we speak so highly of, that we should reflect on what Mr. Ryan and I said when we first started working on 30-Something some 6 years ago, that bipartisanship can only happen when the majority allows it to happen. 
   I think the evidence, the evidence of not only the Congressional Record, but the evidence of our words that we have laid on the Congressional Record over the years, is that we hold paramount bipartisanship, that we hold opportunity, that we hold inclusion. So if it is someone, an American somewhere in a super-Republican district saying do I have a voice in Congress, will the Democratic majority allow my voice to be heard, will the values of my community be heard in Congress and will it be allowed to pass the House of Representatives and the Senate, I think the proof is in the pudding. 
   I am hoping on the 30-Something website we can have this information placed on that website, so that Americans can go and check the record for themselves. 
   One thing I take great pride in personally, Members, is that the 30-Something Working Group, we go through a lot of research and the members of our group believe in fact versus fiction. We bring fact to the House floor. We do not bring fiction. That is what the American people are calling for. 
   Mr. Murphy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (PROGRESS IN PASSING LEGISLATION -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Mr. Murphy, I think it is important, and I think we can do a little back and forth here in the spirit of bipartisanship. I see one of our Republican colleagues who would like to share a few things a little later on, and we don't want to take all of the time, because we definitely want to hear from the Republican side this evening in the spirit of what we are doing here. 
   But I think it is important, Mr. Speaker and Mr. Murphy, I think that as we look at what is happening now, we know that we have an historic Presidential election that is taking place. And we are still in the primary mode, but it has a general election spirit that is there. There are slogans out there, ``yes, we can,'' and ``yes, we will,'' and ``change that you deserve.'' 
   It is interesting, because the President is still trying to play a major role.  We know that he will be commander-in-chief until January, but I think it is important, especially for some of our friends on the Republican side, that they pay very close attention to the past to understand the future. 
   There was a day and time when the American people were not really paying close attention to what is going on here in Washington, DC There was a time that young people who are concerned about tomorrow more than anyone else in this country were not paying attention to the likes of many of the individuals that are paying attention to politics now. 
   I remember one of the general demographics was 50-plus in the country. You have to make sure that you meet the needs of those individuals. But now that goes from 50-plus all the way down to 17 1/2 , where Americans can register, and then at 18 they will get their voter registration card. So we have a full kind of age range there of folks that are paying attention to what is happening here. 
   I remember in the early days with Mr. Ryan and I, and then when Ms. Wasserman Schultz got here, Mr. Ryan and Ms. Wasserman Schultz and myself, and now the Majority Makers such as yourself and others are now coming to the floor. But back in the early days we used to share with our friends on the Republican side, you have a choice to make. Either are you are going to be on the New Direction agenda and give the American people what they deserve versus the special interests, or, Mr. Speaker, those Members will be watching the Congress on C-SPAN and other television outlets that would allow them to view what we are doing here on the floor at home while we are here voting. 
   We are in the majority now. We have won three special elections in quote-unquote ``Republican'' districts that were seen as Republican districts. But what I believe in and what I have subscribed to is the American spirit over politics. I believe people are now looking at their families and looking at their children and looking at their grandparents and looking at themselves in the mirror and saying, am I using the power that I possess with my voter registration card towards the benefit of my family, my community, my State, my country? Am I using that to the full advantage that I have as an American citizen? Or am I voting a party, or a personality, or what is politically quote-unquote ``correct''?     
   And I think that question has come back in many of these districts and throughout the country of saying, I have to vote what is best for my children, for my parents, for my grandparents, for myself, for the fact that the economic situation is bad, for the fact that I don't have health care for so many Americans. 
   I have traveled this country, Mr. Speaker, on Presidential election and I have paid attention to what is going on. And every time the question is asked: How many people without health care? A super majority of the people put their hands up. Of course, I don't put my hands up because I am a Member of Congress and I have health care. But my constituents didn't say, hey, you know, KENDRICK, we are going to vote for you to be in Congress so that you can have a health care plan for you and your family. We love you that much. Don't worry about us. And they didn't vote for any of us for that reason. I don't think any Member of Congress ran for office saying, I am running to make sure that I can have health care, and then maybe you will have health care. 
   But for some reason, some of our friends on the other side of the aisle didn't get that message or they have forgotten the message. But I am hoping, as we start looking at these issues, that, Mr. Murphy and Mr. Speaker and members, that more Republicans start understanding that this is not the Republican or executive committee back in their county or in their parish or whatever the case may be; that this is the U.S. Congress, and they may have been Federalized by the people in their district, Democrats, Republicans, and Independents, in a general election to come here, provide the kind of representation that they woke up early one Tuesday morning looking for. 
   I say all of that to say this: That if it was about politics, Mr. Murphy, members, we would be home now. We would say nothing. We would allow the Republican minority to continue to get further and further and further in the minority. But the American spirit within our Democratic majority allows the 177 bipartisan votes, that we celebrate the 125 bipartisan votes, over 50 Republican members voting for Democratic measures that would never have made it to the floor on the Republican Congress. 
   The record speaks for itself. I am so happy and so glad that we have the kind of leadership, we have the kind of caucus that says, you know something? We are going to move in a new direction that the American people have called for, Mr. Murphy. Some people call it change now. Change is the big word of this election, because people have had a taste of change already in this House and in the Senate. They want that change in the White House. 
   Now, I want us to kind of go back and forth here, but I just want to share a little bit of the record because some work has been done here. I think it is important that we look at the kind of fight that--and I am going to call some of the things out that you have identified. 
   We have the new GI bill that extends benefits to veterans, and it provides and restores the full 4-year college scholarships for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, and the President has threatened that he is going to veto that. 
   My question is, to the Republican minority, are you going to follow the President with this whole veto issue? If he does, will you leader up and override his veto? 
   Because I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, if we have an override once a week, maybe, just maybe--because the President is not running for election again. I just want to let my Republican colleagues know, they are. Some of them are, those that are not retiring. That they may want to pay attention to what the American people are saying versus what may be coming from the White House, because it hasn't worked, because they are in the minority right now. 
   I think it is also important for the responsible timeline for redeployment that requires Iraqis to pay their fair share of the restoration and other Iraqi policy restrictions that was in H.R. 2642, which is the 2008 supplemental that the President has threatened to veto again. Will our Republican colleagues write the Republican and say, listen, we are already in bad shape as a Republican minority in the Congress, we can't follow you on this. We will join Democrats and override your veto. 
   That is the American spirit. That is not saying, well, I am going to be a good Republican. Because it is important that we understand that folks didn't elect us to be good Republicans or good Democrats saying, well, I am going to follow the President because the President says that it should happen. The first version of the 2007 supplemental, the President vetoed the bill on May 1. I think it is important that folks understand this and the opportunities that we have to continue to build on the bipartisanship. 
   The responsible timeline for redeployment of troops, another bill that passed, H.R. 4156, the President has threatened that he is going to veto that. Also, H.R. 2956, that carries some of the same language. I mean, we are putting these bills out there. That bill passed 223-201. The President is threatening he is going to veto that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (PROGRESS IN PASSING LEGISLATION -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Public opinion polls and what the American people want are pretty much the same thing, but also common sense kicks in at some point. I mean, if I was very--hypothetically speaking, Mr. Speaker, and I do mean very hypothetically. If I was a Republican Member of Congress at this point, I would kind of think, hmm, let's see, am I willing to follow the President that is going to retire and have a pension and have all of the things being a past two-term President in this country? Or am I going to stand up on what is right and what is sound as it relates to policy? 
   Mr. Murphy, again, another bill, and I am making sure that the Members understand, because I think here in 
   the 30-Something Working Group, you know, in Congress there is always some mystery about, well, you know, I didn't quite know what was in that bill. 
   I am sorry, let me go back. We are about to celebrate Memorial Day for those and pay tribute to those that serve this country, those that have died to allow us to salute one flag, those that allow us to be here under the illumination of the lights here, to be in a free country, to be in a country that one can stand on the floor and speak freely, Republican or Democrat, what have you; for any American or any resident of this country to speak in opposition of its government and say, I disagree; or, this is the way I feel. 
   Many of us Members of Congress have traveled to countries where folks don't have that privilege or that opportunity, and we try to share that kind of democracy and that freedom of those that have fallen. 
   I tell a story, Mr. Speaker, of my kids and I, we rode our bikes on the mall here in Washington, DC, where we leave this building and pass the Washington monument and pass the World War II memorial, and all of those States are recognized on those pillars that are around that monument and that great fountain that they have there illuminated at night. And we go on and ride on and we go to the Lincoln memorial where so many Americans go to reflect on this great President who served our country. And we run into the Last Outpost, where our veterans from Vietnam are there selling patches and keeping that last outpost open for those that are missing in action. And then we take the opportunity to go by the Korean War memorial that is there and the Vietnam wall of those that lost their lives. And so many Americans will travel to the capital city to celebrate that and to be able to recognize those individuals and celebrate their lives and their commitment to our country and on and on and on, and the number of monuments and great heroes and sheroes that are there, even women that have fought in conflicts. 
   I say all of that to say this: That with all of that history and all of that greatness and all of the spirit of this great country, that we have to take a step back sometimes and say, am I voting in the right direction? Am I doing the right thing? Am I listening to quote/unquote leaders that may be in our caucus or whatever the case may be? And especially on the Republican side, I think it is important because I think it is a very unique time in history and I think they need to be on the right side of history, because history has played a role in Members of Congress' reelection to Congress. 
   And so when I start looking at legislation that the President has decided that he is going to veto, Mr. Murphy, I think it is important. 
   And I want to also on the record call out on 3159, it is again a responsible troop redeployment cycle that is based on Senator Jim Webb's bill that enhances national security and supports our troops and families. And increasing troops are better at home in between deployment. The President has threatened that he is going to veto that. 
   Will our Republican colleagues, those that are not voting in a bipartisan way, will they follow the President in that veto, or will they write a letter to the President and say no way, will they write President Bush and say, on House Bill 1684, the fiscal year 2008 Homeland Security Authorization Act that the President has threatened that he is going to veto that will provide some $139.8 billion to the Department of Homeland Security to be able to protect the homeland? Will they write a letter or will they send a message to the White House that they are willing to override that veto? 
   At the same time, again, time after time again the Coast Guard Authorization that passed the House, H.R. 2830, which is the Coast Guard Authorization, the President, this also passed--now, this is very interesting, Mr. Murphy. This authorization has passed the House. I am smiling because it is almost laughable if it wasn't a serious moment. 
   The Coast Guard plays such an important role to homeland security, especially from a State like mine in Florida, and especially as we look at the East Coast and the West Coast. They play such a very important role, and they have been asked to play a role that they have never played before in protecting the homeland. This bill, this piece of legislation passed 395-7, with 165 Republicans voting ``yea,'' or yes, the President has threatened he is going to veto that. 
   So Mr. Murphy, I think you get the picture. I don't mean to go on and on and on. On every page of pages to go on and on and on, two or three times the President has said we are going to veto that piece of legislation. 
   We have 170 major pieces of legislation that Republicans have voted for in a bipartisan way. We have 125 pieces of legislation that over 50 Republicans have vote in the affirmative. I think that some of our friends on the other side have to get the picture. And I can tell you, and I am going to yield to you and then I am going to say one more thing and then we are going to yield back, because I want our friend to be able to have an opportunity before 12:00 midnight so he can get in his points. I think I know why that we don't have more Republicans voting in a new direction or voting for change in Washington, DC on behalf of not only their very own constituents, but also on behalf of the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (PROGRESS IN PASSING LEGISLATION -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Mr. Murphy, it's very interesting. As I speak to fact versus fiction, I can't help but think of our colleague who already, quote-unquote, has the Republican nomination, one of our friends over in the Senate. And he coined something, I think, earlier this week or last week as the slogan for the forward campaign on the Republican side. Change that you Deserve. 
   Okay. Well, I would say to my Republican colleagues that have decided to follow the leadership, the elected leadership that they have now on the Republican side that are saying stay the course, follow the President, object, what have you. Change that you deserve, I think, is something that one should think about. 
   Case in point. I'm not a lawyer. I don't play one on television. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (PROGRESS IN PASSING LEGISLATION -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. That's fine. My wife's a lawyer too, so I'm kind to lawyers. But let me just say, you remember the letter that the Republican leadership wrote to the Speaker? 
   I don't want you to pay attention over here, I just want you to pay attention over here. The Republican leadership wrote a letter saying, you said you were going to do something about gas prices. We're waiting you to do something about gas prices in America. And we're concerned about all of this, and you have not fulfilled your promise. 
   And I think that it's important. If we can, I want to put something here because I don't want to have that on the chart there. 
   Well, let me just for the case of keeping the 30-something piece together, because I don't want to get into names, I'm just going to do this because I don't like to like point out anything as it relates to an individual Member of Congress, even if they're leadership. 
   But I just want to say, as it relates to doing something about gas prices, these are all the measures that we've passed here in this House that the Republican leadership decided not to vote for. But they want to criticize, and they want to encourage their leaders, I mean, their caucus to vote against change and a new direction. 
   Now, even the Republican nominee on the Republican side has said change that you deserve. If things were going so well and the policy was so great, why do we have to talk about change that you deserve? 
   Why can't we say we'll keep doing the things that we've continued to do, and we'll continue to have the problems that we have now? 
   I'm just saying this to my Republican colleagues, because, not that, you know, many of them are friends of mine. But I'm saying, as it relates to the policy that we have to pass, that the American people need now--we're not here for political purposes. We're here because we want to move an agenda forward. 
   I think it's important when we look at OPEC price fixing. These are the Republican leaders, or down the leadership line, that voted against that. And when you look at the top individual, as it relates to influence within the caucus, voted no on every last measure that Democrats have put forth, price gouging, renewable energy, energy security. 
   Second person in charge voted for three of the four that we have put forth before this Congress. Signed the letter. 
   The third person in charge voted against price gouging and also renewable energy. Those are two votes of the four that have taken place. 
   The fourth person in charge voted for two measures, voted against it, renewable energy and also energy security, but I said it correctly, voted for two of the measures that we put forward. 
   The fifth person in charge voted no on every last measure. Signed the letter. 
   The sixth person in charge voted against every measure that we put forth to be able to give the American people a fighting chance in this whole issue of price gouging, this whole issue of no OPEC. And we call OPEC, these are oil producing companies for price fixing, countries for price fixing, renewable energy, energy security, voted against every last one of them. 
   On down to the bottom, voted three times against those measures and voted two times. 
   I said all of that to say that I think that some of these individuals that are influencing the minds of, or the vote of those individuals within the Republican caucus that don't want to be a part of the 177 bipartisan major votes, or don't want to be a part of the 125 votes that we've taken, plus 50 Republicans that have voted for it, I think that the argument, especially when we look at the individual that is, quote-unquote, running on the Republican side for President of the United States, of saying change that you deserve, we speak fact in the 30-Something Working Group and we do not speak fiction. 
   If it was political, Mr. Murphy, and I say this in closing, if it was political, we would be home right now, you know, relaxing past 11 o'clock at night. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (PROGRESS IN PASSING LEGISLATION -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, I want to thank you for your comments. I couldn't say it better. 
   Mr. Speaker, in the spirit of bipartisanship, we're going to yield back our hour earlier so my good friend from Texas will be able to share with the Members of the House what he would like to share. 
   So with that, Mr. Speaker, we yield back the balance of our time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. It is an honor to come before the House once again. We have finished our work for the week, and a lot has happened, a lot has been said. As you know, the 30-Something Working Group, Mr. Murphy, and I are here today, my good friend from Connecticut. We are going to talk about some of the issues that have been discussed over the last 24 hours on the floor, some of the votes that we have taken, even as it relates to last week, some of the challenges that are facing the country. 
   I know there will be other Members of the 30-Something Working Group  that may be joining us this afternoon. I can tell you as we continue to move forward in this 110th Congress, there is a lot that the American people have to be proud of at some level of accomplishment as it relates to issues that are truly facing the American people. 
   Yesterday, Mr. Speaker, we had an opportunity to hear from the President of the United States. Some say that there was some issues that he brought to the table that are not new. He has mentioned some of these issues before. Alternative fuel, the issue of Iraq, talking about health care, still holding onto the issue of savings accounts that have been proposed in past State of the Unions but haven't been acted upon to even bring about real changes as relates to health care. 
   The President talked about earmarks last night, Mr. Speaker. But it is interesting under the Republican-controlled Congress, that is when the earmarks were out of control. And it was under his watch and his party's watch. And now the President wants to be the chief, I guess, the chief person who says who gets an earmark and who does not get an earmark. Earmark reform was a part of the Democratic reform package, and was not even really given serious consideration until the Democrats took control of the Congress. 
   The glaring issue as it relates to Iraq, and Mr. Murphy and I and Mr. Ryan were talking about this just yesterday, it is obvious that the American people voted for change in the last election, and that the President continues to march in the opposite direction of the American people. The American people are ready to go in a new direction. The President seems like he is ready to go and continue to keep going in the old direction. 
   The new direction, redeployment of troops, working in a diplomatic way, following some of the Iraq Study Group recommendations of talking with Iran and Syria, and I would even add Turkey if we want to look at a diplomatic resolution to what is happening in the Middle East, making sure that our troops are safe, making sure that we take the training wheels off the Iraqi Government train, redeploy, diplomatic mission. 
   The President seems to think that the answer is to have an escalation in troops. The American people are looking for escalation in the truth, not the troops. And also the President has spoken of giving him a chance for his plan to work. Well, I can tell you that the American people have given the President a lot of latitude as it relates to Iraq. I think it is important, I take from Senator Warner's, and I can talk, I have a number of quotes here on the escalation of troops from Senator Warner, the former chairman, who is a Republican, the former chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
   I can also take from our colleagues who spoke after the President spoke yesterday and prior to his speech yesterday, that contradict or are going in a new direction as it relates to Iraq and what the American people called for, versus what they did not call for, more of the same.     
   So hopefully, Mr. Murphy, we will talk a little bit about some of this today. 
   There are some other issues, as it relates to the State of the Union speech, that we can get into, but I think it is important, we spent a lot of time yesterday talking about bipartisanship, we spent a lot of time yesterday saying the President had an opportunity, and we hoped that he would come and share with us, hold up issues such as the minimum wage that we passed overwhelmingly on this floor that he is ready to sign. We thought that he would come to the floor saying, I want to work with the leaders here in the House on the minority and majority side on passing real health care on behalf of millions of Americans that are without health care. Those things did not come out. 
   I can say that the Americans, Mr. Speaker, that were pointed out yesterday in the gallery by the President, well-noted heroes and ``she-roes'' that were sitting up there, this State of the Union was about a state of the Union, and I can tell you, hearing last night's speech, we have a lot of work ahead of us, Democrats and Republicans. So I am excited about that opportunity. 
   I yield to my good friend, Mr. Murphy of Connecticut. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, will you yield for a moment? 
   I was kind of paying attention to the room last night when the President said, ``Give my plan a chance to work.'' Now, if you kind of look on the gauge of who stands up for that or who claps for it, I can tell you that it was lukewarm on the Republican side, and definitely over here on the Democratic side it was more of the same. 
   I mean, you made it to Congress, I made it back to Congress with a message that we were going to move in a new direction. And I believe that we will have a majority, and I am not just talking about a Democratic majority, if it comes down to a question, I know they had some action on the other side of the Capitol dome today, on this very issue of the escalation of the troops, and we have quotes here that will be on the 30-Something Web site I know, hopefully, by the end of the week of Senators, Representatives and others that have said just the contrary to what the President said last night. So I believe that there is some hope on the Iraq issue. 
   Now, the Republican leadership is not necessarily there where we need them to be. And you heard me say once before that I am not upset with certain Members that are not following the will and the desire of the American people. The good thing about the U.S. House of Representatives is we are all up for reelection in 23, 24 months from now, and we have to be accountable. And if Members want to follow leadership, or whoever they think that is going to share with them how they should vote and what they should stand for on all these different issues, then I think it is important that they realize that we are going to have an election, and that you have got to go home, you have to explain why you voted for more of the same. 
   I believe that we are getting to a head here. And the good thing about being in the majority is that we have the opportunity, we used to give speeches on this floor, Mr. Murphy, saying if we are blessed enough to have the opportunity to be in the majority to lead the American agenda, the American people, everyday Americans who wants accountability and who pray and look for bipartisanship, look for leadership, we will give it to them, and that is what we are going to have a chance to do. 
   Thank you for yielding. I just wanted to point that out because that was an observation. And while I am speaking, if you want, I will yield to you so that we can drive this home, because we want to break this down because we don't want Members to go back to their districts and say, you know, I didn't understand that. We want individuals to be able to pull the Congressional Record and say, wow, how couldn't you understand it; it was mentioned 10 or 12 times in a given day on the reason why we were doing what we did. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. We can do it together. And I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, that it can be done. 
   Let's just put it this way: It is the new direction versus more of the same. There are Members of Congress that are saying that they are on board on the new direction. There are troops in Iraq that are saying that they are on board for a new direction. And I can tell you from 4 years on the Armed Services Committee that looking in the eyes of the commanders when they come, they are also looking for a new direction. And even, Mr. Speaker, when the President puts forth this Iraq Study Group that brought forth recommendations on the direction we should move in, the President says, thank you very much for your input, I appointed you, bipartisan commission, but we are going to send new troops to Iraq, and that is the answer. 
   I am not a Member of Congress with a conspiracy theory, but I will say that the President sent the 20,000 additional troops before we had an opportunity to really look at what is happening or what has been happening in the time that our committee rooms have sat with the lights off. We didn't have hearings in the 109th Congress. Nancy Pelosi wasn't Speaker of the House. The will and the desire wasn't there to find out what is happening with all the supplemental money that we have given towards Iraq and Afghanistan and other issues that we paid for that didn't go through the regular budget process. 
   Now we are going to have an opportunity, hopefully, in speaking with Mr. Murtha, who is the chairman of the Defense Subcommittee on Defense. He is asking questions. They are having hearings. Brass and suits together are coming in to answer the tough questions about, well, what happened to the money we have already given you? 
   When you look at companies like--we talked about Halliburton, and we talked about some of these other companies that have run away with these dollars, we talked about the U.S. troops that are being there, let's talk about the mercenaries that are there. Let's talk about the hired individuals that are there to carry out missions that are not wearing a U.S. flag on their shoulders, but they are contractors to carry out security missions for convoys. There are a number of those individuals that are dying, and they are not being counted in the troop calculation. And many of those individuals, Mr. Speaker, are former members of our military Armed Forces. I know for a fact that some of these companies are providing even better incentives, much greater, sometimes twice that our men and women are earning in uniform. So after their time is up, as we give the military their ability, because so many individuals have been deployed two and three times, and when their time is up as it relates to their service, to get them to reenlist we incentivize them not only through monetary means, but also the ability to move up the ladder. 
   At the same time you have the private sector that understands that same philosophy, Mr. Speaker and Members, and they are incentivizing them to go into the private side of it. And these individuals are securing the convoys, securing some of the facilities that are there, carrying out some missions. And they are replacing, because we talk about the coalition, if you want to break that down, I mean, we have U.S. men and women in uniform, and then U.S. contractors. It is not Great Britain, it is not some of the other folks that people are talking about, the coalition of the few, the United States of America and U.S. contractors. Guess what? U.S. taxpayers are paying for that. So I think it is important, the issues that we talked about. 
   I have Senator Warner here, I mentioned him earlier, the Republican from Virginia. Basically he is saying after the speech last night, to place our U.S. men in the middle of a fight between Sunnis and Shiites is not the right time to do that. 
   You also have CHUCK HAGEL. Senator Hagel has also said, Republican, has said that he thinks the speech that was given last night by the President represents the most dangerous foreign policy blunder in this country since Vietnam. If it is carried out, he would have to resist it. He said, ``I will resist it.'' This is not what Democrats are saying. People have heard what we had to say. Now we have Republicans that have heard the voice of the American people that are saying, if I am going to stay in the U.S. Congress, I am not appointed, I am elected, if I am going to stay in the U.S. Congress, I have to follow the will and the desire of my constituents and the American people. 
   I always say, Mr. Murphy, when we are elected from our districts, we are federalized to represent an entire country and those that are in harm's way. We are talking about training. We are talking about tactical missions against terrorists or what have you, not everyday street patrol, security patrol on the block. That is where our men and women are losing. 
   We have been talking about training of the troops from the time that we were in Baghdad, Mr. Speaker. I can tell you, I am a witness to it, I have been on the committee, we have had the testimony. Oh, we are training them; and then all of a sudden we find out that the training is not keeping up with the need. Well, we have military bases not only in Mosul, but Tikrit, also in Baghdad and other spots throughout Iraq where those troops can be trained right there. 
   I look forward, Mr. Speaker, in going to Iraq within the next couple of months, Mr. Murphy, I would love to have you join me if you haven't gone already, to ask these tough questions on the issue of the training issues because now it is under our watch. The American people have empowered a majority of the Members who feel the way the American people feel, that we need to take care of our mission in Iraq. I am pretty sure we will have some presence of troops there for some time, but not at these levels, not at the level to where that is not an issue of redeployment. 
   Mr. Murphy, I hate to get preachy on this, but the President has said that is up to another President to deal with, another administration to deal with, I am not going to do it. Well, like our  good friend Senator Webb said last night, if he doesn't want to take the leadership way, then we are going to have to show him the way, the Congress.     
   And the good thing about it, Mr. Speaker, it will be in a bipartisan way. It won't be just Democrats. It will be Democrats and Republicans, and I welcome that bipartisan spirit 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy, I would tell you right now, and Members, I think it is important that we look at this for what it is worth. If I was thinking of the Iraq issue solely as a political issue, it would be let us go to the floor, Mr. Murphy, and as we talk, we meet in the 30-something Working Group, let us not talk about the politics of the Iraq issue. If this was about maintaining the majority as it relates to politics, Mr. Speaker and Members, if this was about capturing the White House, Mr. Speaker, we wouldn't come to the floor to talk about how we can work in a bipartisan way or come to the floor and promote leadership. And I think it is important that we promote leadership and move in this new direction and saying that we have to deal with the big issue of Iraq. 
   I get members of local government and State government saying, Congressman, I need more money in my city. You cut the COPS program. Your Federal commitment as it relates to dollars for health care, for security, for the environment, they are not there like they used to be there. And we put parameters on ourselves because we told the American people what we would do, pay-as-we-go philosophy or principles that we already passed, and we have this war going on and we have young men and young women. You have a lot of Reservists that are there that are 40, 50 years old, that are away from their families 15 months at a pop. 
   We come to Washington, D.C., most of us, our families are back in the district and we are here and we are missing for about 4 or 5 days, but we get to go back home at the end of the week, unlike those men and women when they board that chartered flight. When they go over to Kuwait or fly straight into Baghdad Airport or end up in Turkey at one of our staging bases there, or end up somewhere else as they feed into Iraq, they don't get the opportunity to say, Hey, kids, I am going to be back in a couple of weeks. So I think it is important that we look at this issue and treat it with the serious attention that it needs. 
   So for the President to come here last night and say, give me an opportunity, give me an opportunity for my plan to work, well, let me tell you something. It is 
   almost like looking in the refrigerator and seeing a carton of milk there and you take it out and open the carton and you say, wow, that milk is sour; let me put it back in, maybe it will be fresh tomorrow. That logic doesn't work. So it is important. 
   And I am glad to see some of our Republican colleagues and many of our Democratic colleagues that are questioning the President, before he can even leave the Chamber, about the speech, what he did not say in the speech, that did November 7 happen? Did you hear it? 
   At the press conference after the November election, he said, you know, I guess it did have something to do with Iraq. And some of the tough talk ended. And I just want to say if I can commend the President, he didn't come  with the chest-beating that he usually does, but he did go back to scaring the American people. 
   So I think it is important. There are issues we have to deal with. But I am on record, Mr. Speaker and Members, on the issue of being a leader, having the courage, and representing the people that have sent us to Washington, DC to be able to govern in this government. Give our men and women what they need in Iraq, but at the same time push forth diplomatic talks. At the same time make sure that we start not only discussion but redeployment of our troops more sooner than later, because that message would not only get to the Iraqi Government but also to the world community because we all play a role in this. 
   I see my good friend from Florida. We have served together, and she is the chairwoman on the Rail Subcommittee under the Transportation Committee. I am so glad she has joined us. Mr. Murphy has had so much to say on this topic, and I am so glad you are here on the floor. 
   I yield to Ms. Brown from Florida. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Reclaiming my time, the bottom line is, Ms. Brown, that we have the responsibility to govern here. The President is the executive. He is the Commander in Chief. He was given the authority by the Congress, even though there were many votes that weren't in the affirmative of giving him that authority. He can send additional troops. 
   There has been a discussion in the Senate. I haven't quite read the briefing information on it or the report from the Senate session today. I know there will be sessions in the House dealing with that. I talked earlier in this Special Order about Mr. Murtha and what he is doing in his committee as it relates to defense oversight. We know that there will be a bill, a supplemental, I think a $99 billion bill coming to the floor, which will be, from what I understand, the last supplemental bill. 
   When we say ``supplemental,'' I want to make sure all the Members and everyone understands this is basically what we call emergency funding for the war. It is not necessarily in the budget. If it was in the budget, it would go through a process just like you do with your transportation dollars in your committee, giving authorization for certain spending. This is just pretty much a wish list from the administration that is given to the Appropriations Committee, and it really doesn't go through the full process. I understand this is the last supplemental that will come through for Iraq and Afghanistan. But what is also in his supplemental are ballistic missiles, other issues that they are spending money on. 
   So we have the power of the purse strings. But I can tell you, which I know that we are all together on and you mentioned, we will not cut money off to the troops that are on the ground there. But we said, leading up to the end of the 109th Congress, that we will not defund the troops that are in harm's way. But no one said anything about escalating the number of troops, adding more onto it. 
   So a lot of folks are upset. It is not just Democrats that are upset. The American people are. And the President is going against a 70-plus percent approval and heading in a new direction on this issue of Iraq, and he is still heading in the same direction that he was heading in prior to the November election. So it is up to us, Congresswoman Brown, to not only state within the Congressional Record but encourage our colleagues not only on our side of the aisle but on the Republican side of the aisle that we have to lead in the way that the American people want us to lead. 
   I am encouraged by something, seeing some of the comments by some of the Republicans about what the President said.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Ms. Brown, before you leave, I just wanted to say before yielding to Ms. Wasserman Schultz that I am glad that you came to the floor, because you have been given voice in this. 
   And I remember being a non-Member of Congress. You served with my mom; and I was in the senate, Ms. Wasserman Schultz and I were serving in the Florida Senate. I remember you going out to the mike by the Cannon Building where C-SPAN had a camera rolling, and it was a press conference, and you went out along with a number of Members saying that it is  wrong that we gave the President the authority to go to war; and that you have been a voice on this issue because you knew that this could possibly happen, the position that we are in now. 
   I also want to add, since you said he didn't mention anything about Katrina, he didn't say anything about veterans. And I know you have been up front and on target on veteran benefits. We have many from Florida; I know Mr. Murphy has them from Connecticut. And I think that it is important that even though, Mr. Speaker, veterans were not mentioned, victims of Katrina weren't mentioned, we picked up on it. And we are going to make sure that we continue to do the things that we need to do. 
   Thank you, Ms. Brown. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. All I am going to do is do a close. I know we have the Web site and all, but I want to yield to Ms. Wasserman Schultz because I want to tell you, I am not from Connecticut, but if I was one of your constituents, I would vote for you. You are good. That is all I can say. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I was just saying if I was your constituent I would vote for you. It is good to have a Member of Congress that is as well informed into the issues that are facing the constituents and the American people. I yield to Ms. Wasserman Schultz because we are going to be closing out soon. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, it is an honor to be on the floor with Mr. Murphy and also Ms. Wasserman Schultz. Being in the majority brings about responsibility for all of us. So we have a lot to do. And Mr. Speaker, we want to thank the Democratic leadership, from the Speaker to the leader to the whip to the chair and the vice chair for allowing us to have this Special Order on the Democratic side. It was an honor addressing the House once again. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to be before 110th Congress. I can tell you that as the 30-something Working Group has been coming to the floor for 3-plus years and talking about what we would like to do if we were ever in the majority, and the American people saw fit to give the Democrats the majority here in this House last November. And we are appreciative and grateful, and I am glad to be here with my good colleague Ms. Wasserman Schultz. 
   Mr. Ryan is around here on the floor somewhere, Mr. Speaker. I believe he is hiding because of the lashing, or it is hard to put it in words, that the Florida Gators, who, it was reported that it was said that they shouldn't even get off the bus to play against the number-one ranked Ohio Buckeyes. 
   But I am going to yield to Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and then we will get into the meat of our discussion, because Ms. Wasserman Schultz has a degree and paper hanging on her wall from University of Florida, and on her car she has Florida tags. I mean, she is a real Gator. I just kind of happen to be from the State of Florida. 
   But go ahead, Ms. Wasserman Schultz. Congratulations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, you did take it like a man. We were watching the game together, and it was great for college football and great for all of us here in the country to see the underdog win. And it kind of tells our story here in the U.S. House of Representatives. And I just want to thank everyone on behalf of all of us. But tonight we are going to take a moment because, Mr. Speaker, when we come back to the floor, we have a number of freshmen that are coming in that are new 30-somethings that were elected in this election, and they are going to come to the floor. I believe, and all of us in 30-Something Working Group believe, that we were effective in the 108th and the 109th Congress, communicating with the American people. We want to thank not only the Speaker but also the majority leader, Mr. Hoyer; and also Mr. Clyburn, who was our Democratic leader, now our Democratic whip; and now Mr. EMANUEL for his good work, who is our chairman of the Democratic Caucus; and Mr. Larson, who is the vice chairman, for all the support they gave the 30-Something Working Group, including the Members on the Democratic side of the aisle. 
   We talked about what we would do, Mr. Speaker, if we had the opportunity to get into the majority. And I am happy to report that we talked about putting in standards on PAYGO, making sure that whatever we appropriated, wherever we spend, that we also identify how we are going to pay for it so that we can get away from owing all of these countries money as we owe now. And there is a lot of work that has to be done that the Republican Congress has left us with. 
   Looking at records like this, $1.05 trillion borrowed by the President and the Republican majority in the 109th Congress and the 108th Congress over 42 Presidents at $1 trillion. So all of the charts you see here tonight, Mr. Speaker, will only be resurrected, if I could use that word, every now and then because the charts are going to be talking about what we have done. We did that last week. 
   Today we implemented the 9/11 Commission's recommendations, all of them, here on this floor. And we had some of our Republican colleagues join us, and we are going to work in a bipartisan way to make sure that we do what we told the American people we would do in our Six in 2006 plan. 
   Also, I think it is important, on Wednesday, we are going to raise the minimum wage. Tomorrow the minimum wage will be raised here on this House of Representatives floor. This House that we talked about time after time again that we would do if given the opportunity. Later this week, securing low prices on prescription drugs, giving the Federal Government negotiating opportunity with the drug companies. Also stem cell research, ethics reform. These are things that the 109th Congress under Republican control, they didn't even do it. And we have done it within the first 100 hours, and we have a lot more that we would like to do. So I would not only like to thank our good friend, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, which our districts neighbor each other in Florida, but Mr. Ryan and Mr. Delahunt, Uncle Bill, in his absence. 
   Mr. Speaker, he apologized for not being here tonight, and I told him, this is the first night that we are on the floor coming back in the majority. And, Mr. Speaker, I can tell you, as I yield to my colleagues, Ms. Wasserman Schultz and Mr. Ryan, that I know from me and from all of us in the 30-Something Working Group, we are forever grateful to the American people for allowing us to have the opportunity to lead in a commonsense way on their behalf. And it took Republicans and it took independents and it took Democrats and it took the Green Party and it took folks who  voted for the first time because they had hope that we are going to move this country in a new direction. And I am so happy to our leadership and also to the members of the Democratic Caucus that we are following through on what we said we would do. It is going to be painful, but we are going to do it because the American people want a new direction. I am so happy that I am a member of a caucus and a party that has said they are going to do something, and they are actually doing it. That is a paradigm shift here in Washington. 
   I yield to Ms. Wasserman Schultz. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I think it is important, Mr. Ryan, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and also Mr. Speaker and Members, a perfect example of the balance of power. Now, in the 109th there were a lot of things said. I won't be giving any speeches any time soon saying I was proud to be a Member of the 109th Congress, because we had Members that were indicted, we had Members that were saying ``I have a list, and if you are not on my contributors' list, you can't have a meeting with me.'' We had the K Street Project. We had a number of other things. We had the page scandal. 
   We had a number of things, because no one was policing the body of this U.S. House. No one took responsibility on telling the special interests, no, you can't have that. No one took the responsibility in standing up to the big oil companies and saying we are going to legislate on behalf of the American people. 
   When we start talking about investing in alternative fuels on this floor within the next couple of days, next week or what have you, that is going to be something that no one dreamed would ever take place. 
   I am holding this chart up because we have been holding it up, especially in the 109th Congress, to talk about the increases that Members of Congress have received in pay and what the American people have received, zero, since 1997 as it relates to an increase in the minimum wage. 
   Guess what? This chart, we can send it over to the National Archives across the street, because tomorrow we are going to increase the minimum wage. 
   Guess what a little legislative leadership brings? Now the President is saying ``I am for the increase in the minimum wage.'' Isn't that something? And when we get on that board tomorrow, Mr. Speaker, I guarantee you that there are going to be a lot of Republicans that are going to say, you know something, and they are going to send a press release out and say ``I voted for an increase in the minimum wage.'' Unheard of in the 109th Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. And on and on under Republican control. So I think it is very important for everyone to understand when we have legislative leadership, the writers of Constitution said there is going to be a legislative, an executive, a judicial. They did not say executive and legislative together. They didn't say someone calling from the White House and saying this is the way the vote is going to go down, and if you like it or not, this is what is going to happen. 
   I have been talking to some of my Republican colleagues, and we all have great relationships with our Republican colleagues, many of them. We had an issue with the Republican leadership leading them down the wrong road, and we even tried to correct some of those issues here on the floor saying, you know, we want to get in the majority, but we care about the American people first, so, please, vote for our amendment, when we could get one on the floor, a motion to recommit, saying we want to make sure the American people are involved in this. We couldn't even pull one Republican on many of those issues. 
   But tomorrow, thank God for our democracy, thank God for folks that voted for Democratic control of the House, we are going to have many Republicans that are going to vote. It is not going to be where were you yesterday, it is going to be thank God we are able to do something for the American people. So that is where we are. 
   When Ms. Wasserman Schultz talked about legislative leadership, it is important. We have to be bold and we have to be bipartisan. I am just so happy that we are going to have the opportunity to do that. That is major,  Ms. Wasserman Schultz, that is major, Mr. Ryan, for the American people to vote for change and to see it, immediately. Not, well, when is the next election? What? Two years and some change. 
   We are not even out of January yet, and we are already voting in a bipartisan way because of the leadership of the Democrats that say we have to increase the minimum wage, something we told the American people we would do. So I am excited about the fact, Mr. Ryan, that we are able not only in our lifetime but in our political lifetime to be able to deliver to the American people something that is important. 
   Ms. Wasserman Schultz and Mr. Ryan, when we come back to the floor, we are going to have members of the Freshman Caucus, of the Democratic Caucus, that are going to be joining us here on this floor. These are individuals that are fresh, out of not only the campaign, but out of private life, to bring to this House the kind of input that we need. 
   One thing we are committed to do in the 30-Something Working Group, there is an old spiritual that says ``we are in no ways tired.'' We are in no ways tired, because we have a war that is going on, we still have people without health care, we have a deficit that is continuing to run out of control. But we have now passed legislation to pay as we go. We now have the will and the desire to do the right thing on behalf of our veterans. All of the things we talked about. 
   So I look forward, Mr. Speaker, to coming to the floor to not only report on progress, but also to ask the Members on both sides of the aisle and the American people to give us the kind of input that we need. 
   We had the rubber stamp, Ms. Wasserman Schultz and Mr. Ryan, that we asked the American people what should we do with the rubber stamp. I want to thank Mr. Manatos with the Speaker's office, I like to say that, with the Speaker's office, that facilitated that asking of the American people. 
   We are going to keep the rubber stamp, the Republican Congress rubber stamp of the 109th, to remind us that we never, ever want to go back to a rubber stamp Congress. It is not good for the country and it is not good for our future, and it is not good for the men and women that are our veterans and those that are now serving for our independence for us to be able to salute one flag. It is not good. That is not what the Constitution called for and that is not what we are going back to. 
   So there was a discussion of destroy the rubber stamp, or put the rubber stamp on E-Bay and give it to the Troop Relief Fund or whatever the case may be. But the overwhelming e-mails that we received in the 30-Something Working Group was keep the rubber stamp as a reminder of what you don't want to do in the 110th, if God is willing, in the 111th and the 112th and so on and so on Congress, to not allow that to happen. 
   So, Mr. Ryan, I just want to say, I know Ms. Wasserman Schultz joined us in the 109th, I want to thank you personally on the 108th, because it was kind of lonely. It was just the two of us. Every now and then we would get other members of the 30th-Something Working Group. I want to thank you for sticking in there over the years, and then when you are in the majority, commit to coming back with the same enthusiasm to say not only thank you, but to say that we are going to continue to work and we are going to continue to reach out and continue to do the things that we did in the minority to make sure that we have a strong majority and make this country stronger.     
   And I want to thank Ms. Wasserman Schultz for all the things she does. And I don't know how she does it all, being a mom. I am a dad, but to be a mom is a totally different definition. But she comes to this Congress and brings not only what she brings from the Florida senate, but the same kind of energy, integrity and good will on behalf of the American people, so I want to thank you and all the other Members. 
   I want to thank Uncle Bill for being an individual that is receiving Medicare. He is a Medicare recipient now. The fact that he comes to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Right. When we come earlier, he comes to the floor. 
   And Mr. Manatos, he is the glue that keeps this whole thing together. I can't say enough about him. I want to thank him for all the work he has done. Even though we are all paid to do what we do, Mr. Speaker, it takes an extra wanting to serve the American people to come to this floor night after night. 
   And I want to take just a personal point. I want to thank my family for allowing me to be here, because I have two kids and a wife here in Washington, D.C. with me. They allow me to come to this floor. But the whole thing comes down to the fact that we have men and women that are deployed for 15 months at a time, so at least I can go two to three blocks to the Capitol at 10 o'clock at night, give them voice and those out in America voice that are punching in and out every day trying to figure out how they are going to get health care for their kids, how they are going to move in a direction where they will be able to have some savings and a tax cut as a middle class. 
   So I am very thankful. You all can tell I am a little emotional tonight. I see folks here, the Capitol Police and other folks here working tonight, saying, Congressman, you have a big smile on your face. It is my first time being on the floor in the majority. It is not only a historic majority but I am glad to be part of change and glad to do something on behalf of the American people. 
   Mr. Ryan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Ms. Wasserman Schultz. 
   I can tell you that in the 30-something Working Group we do, Mr. Speaker, kind of mix it up here and there, but I think it is very, very important. I am glad we came tonight just to reflect on the work, and to say thank you to the American people, and to say thank you to the staff here in the House, and to say thank you to all of our families. 
   I would like to say thank you to our personal staff that work in our offices. We get together, Mr. Speaker, and we go over this information, what works best here for the American people. So we just don't come to the floor. We actually spend a lot of staff time. So we want to say thank you to our staffs. 
   Once again, we would like to say thank you to the Speaker for creating this group and sticking with us and giving us the resources that we need to come to the floor night after night, and we look forward to continuing to do that. 
   The good thing about this 30-something Working Group, Mr. Speaker, is that this wasn't a project to get in the majority; this was a project to work on behalf of the American people. So in the majority we will continue to do the things we did in the minority because we still have people out there that need the kind of representation in a sensible way. This is not partisan. We are going to read off the song sheet of whatever the Democratic National Committee puts out. That is not what it is all about. It is about giving voice, commonsense solutions, and moving in the direction that we have to move in. 
   So we look forward to working with our Republican colleagues. And I am so honored, Mr. Speaker, to yield to Mr. Ryan to give the Web site out, and then I am going to yield back our time. But since we no longer can use our old Web site, because we are in the majority now, Mr. Manatos had to write it on some notebook paper to give out to the Members until we get our Web site memorized. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to address the House. 
   And to my colleagues on the Republican side of the aisle, it sounds like our past colleague Mr. Snyder and his family served our country well, and we appreciate his contributions to our country in serving in public service.  
   Mr. Speaker, as you know, this is the first night of business, returning back from the Presidents Day break. Before we left we had a week-long debate on the question of Iraq, a nonbinding resolution opposing the troop escalation that the President has put forth at this time. 
   And the discussion continues, Mr. Speaker, as we start, Democrats and Republicans, molding out the direction that we have to head in in this country. The American people, Mr. Speaker, voted for change and a new direction. And to bring about that kind of change and new direction, there are going to have to be some votes here on this floor that are going to speak volumes back home of how we are going to proceed from this point on and how we are going to assist our men and women in harm's way and how we are going to deal with this issue in Iraq and in Afghanistan and other domestic issues that we have here. 
   I am very pleased to not only share with the Members, Mr. Speaker, but also with the American people the fact that 246 Members of the House voted in the affirmative to disagree with the President as it relates to the recent troop escalation of some 20,000 combat troops and anywhere from 3,000 to 4,000 support personnel being sent to Iraq, which was announced by the President on January 10 of this year.     
   I think it is very, very important to note that that was a nonbinding resolution. Even though it was nonbinding, it really set the course for the Congress to play a role. 
   I think the reason why we are in the majority, and when I say ``we,'' the Democrats are in the majority right now, Mr. Speaker, is not the fact that our message was better than the Republican message in the last election. I think the American people were counting on change and heading in a new direction. 
   So it is important, and I am encouraging the Members in a bipartisan way, that we work very hard to give the American people what they want and to give the men and women in uniform what they need. I think that is a Congress having oversight hearings; a Congress debating the issues as it relates to troop readiness; a Congress that is willing to take the tough votes when they need to be taken; to be able to provide the kind of leadership from the congressional oversight end. 
   The President is the commander-in-chief. That is outlined in the Constitution. No one is really trying to bother that or hinder that. We just want to make sure that the troops have what they need when they go into harm's way, need it be Iraq or Afghanistan. 
   I mentioned a little earlier in my talk about readiness. I think it is important that we identify this, because it is used a lot here on the floor. Being a member of the Armed Services Committee and having had an opportunity to travel to Iraq twice, and looking forward to going back soon and going to Afghanistan and other areas where we have a military presence, readiness is very, very important. 
   Readiness is almost like if you have an illness and you are going in for a major operation, you want to make sure that that doctor has what he or she needs to be able to carry out your procedure. 
   I think it is important as we look at our National Guard and we look at our Reservists and we look at our active duty that they have what they need to carry out the mission if they are sent to Iraq. You can't go unless you have up-armored Humvees that are going to match the mission. You should not go and we should not send them if they don't have the Kevlar vests that they need. They should not go and we should not send them if they don't have the kind of backing that they need from a support standpoint that is trained and ready for the mission in Baghdad, need it be door-to-door searches, need it be guerilla warfare, need it be the general equipment one may need to carry out that mission. 
   There is nothing wrong with the word ``readiness.'' I put it in the category, Mr. Speaker, of responsibility. I think it is important. I think it is irresponsible for us to send men and women into harm's way without the necessary tools that they need. 
   Now, there are some Members that are saying, well, why do you have Members concerned? A colonel told us or the President told us or I read somewhere in a news release or I saw on the news that they have everything they need, and why would we send them over there in the first place? We all have their best interests at heart. 
   I am going to share with Members, Mr. Speaker, that being a member of the Armed Services Committee in the last two Congresses and this Congress too, I have seen the Secretary of Defense say they have what they need. ``Anything the troops need, we will give it to them.'' And later I will pick up a news account that they don't have what they need, or go to Walter Reed and talk to a soldier that ended up being blown up in a Humvee because of an improvised explosive device, because that Humvee did not have the up-armor that it needed. It is the total opposite of what I hear here on Capitol Hill and what I have seen at Walter Reed. 
   Let's take Walter Reed out. I have gone to Germany, Mr. Speaker. I have seen service men and women without legs. They didn't have what they needed. We were told they had what they needed, but they didn't have it. 
   Just 2 weeks ago, last week during the debate, I think it was on Tuesday or Wednesday, I was at the White House for a meeting and we had an opportunity to ask the President questions and I had an opportunity to ask the President a question. And I shared with the President, we talked the nonbinding resolution. The President agreed he thought that it would pass here on the floor because the votes were there. He has people that are counting these votes. 
   I said, ``Mr. President, I think it is important as we look at this as being a nonbinding resolution, there will be a binding resolution or a binding supplemental, emergency supplemental for the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, and there will be language in there, and you shouldn't have a problem with it, to say that we should not send the troops unless they are ready. I am not talking about mentally, I am talking about having the equipment they need to carry out the mission and not find themselves in harm's way without having the kind of backing that they need to be able to carry out the mission once again.'' 
   Of course, the President came back in a very roaring voice saying, ``KENDRICK, do you believe that I would send men and women into harm's way? I hear about the funerals. I write the letters and I call the families. You believe that I would do that?'' 
   I don't believe that the President would do that. But let me just share this with you: It has happened, and I think it is important that we realize that it is happening. 
   Yes, if I am talking to a friend of mine and they are saying, well, you know, I know there have been reports of the new car that I bought, that it has some sort of problem with the engine that has come out in the auto report or what have you, but I am going to be okay regardless. 
   Maybe it is not the best analogy that I can come up with at this point, but we have been told that the troops have what they need, we have been told they are ready for the mission that they are being sent to, and we found out otherwise later. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, it gives me no pleasure, and Members, it gives me no pleasure, we are at 3,154 men and women in uniform that are dead now. We appreciate their contributions to our country and we appreciate the way that they have applied themselves on behalf of what we sent them over to do. But I will tell you standing here as a Member of Congress, that some of these deaths could have been prevented if they had what they needed. 
   Now, Members can go back and forth on how you feel about leadering up, manning up and womaning up to be able to do what you need to do as a Member of Congress to fight on behalf of these individuals. I am not questioning anyone's patriotism. I am not questioning anyone's integrity. I am not even questioning any Member of Congress' will or desire to make sure that we give the troops what they need. 
   I believe we all are well-intended. But we have to make sure that when that man or woman leaves their family on a tarmac, need it be at an active duty military camp or at a commercial airport where you have Reserve and  National Guard individuals that are leaving to go into harm's way, it is our duty and our responsibility as Members of Congress that have oversight of the taxpayer dollars to make sure, even though someone has said it is going to be okay, but to make sure that they have what they need. It is that simple. 
   So, I was not shocked, Mr. Speaker, by seeing the bipartisan vote before we left on President's break. I am definitely not a prophet and I am not a psychic, but I knew, based on the message from the American people, Democrats and Republicans, I am not just talking about proud Democrats kind of got together and said hey, let's do this. We don't have 246 Members here in this House on the majority right now, so it took 17 Republicans to come along with Democrats or to be with Democrats or to be with individuals that understood that message last November from the American people. 
   As far as I am concerned, in the 30-something Working Group, we don't focus on issues, ``let's go to the floor and make sure we gain a greater majority.'' Not when it comes to national security. Not when it comes to the very heartbeats and the way of life of those individuals that put their lives on the line and those that have put their lives on the line in the past, and I am going to talk about them a little later, Mr. Speaker. 
   You don't play politics with that. That is national security. That is someone's daddy, that is someone's mother, that is someone's son, that is someone's daughter that may not come home because someone told someone else in Washington, D.C. that it was going to be okay. 
   Now, there are a lot of folks around here 
   editorializing on what Mr. Murtha is talking about from Pennsylvania, who is an outstanding Member of the Congress and also happens to be the chairman of the Defense Appropriations subcommittee. 
   I think it is important that we look at someone who is a decorated Marine, that has fought for us to salute one flag, who served in Congress double digit years, that still is willing to serve this country. We have someone that is willing to say I voted for the war, as Mr. Murtha did, and to say that I have been to Iraq, I have had oversight hearings, and I must add that he has had more oversight hearings since this Congress has been active in the last 2 months than they had in the entire 109th Congress with 2 years combined and then some. 
   And that the committee is hard at work to make sure that when those family members look at those men and women that are going into harm's way, that they know, not maybe, not, well, you know, I am trying to get there. 
   I heard what the President said. I heard what the Secretary of Defense said. I even heard a member of the brass say it. When they go out on patrol, and I am not a military person and I am not going to represent myself as someone who has served in uniform. I have just been a State trooper and I have been an elected official for 13 years, and I have served here in this Congress for the last 4 years and a couple of months. And I have been federalized by the people that elected me from the Seventeenth Congressional District. 
   I will tell you this: I know what my job is, and I know what Mr. Murtha's job is, and I know what the job of all of the Members of Congress, including the Members of the Senate and the President of the United States and the people that he appoints, that we need to make sure, we need to make sure beyond 100 percent, we need to make sure 160 percent, if we can, 200 percent, that those men and women that go into war, that their chance to come back to this country the way they left is our paramount duty. 
   So, I am not really tied up in a debate, Mr. Speaker, and I don't think here on this side of the aisle and even some of the Members on the other side of the aisle are tied up in the debate about the details of the obvious. 
   The obvious is, Mr. Speaker, the fact that the troops should have what they need when they go into harm's way. Why are we even talking about that? Why are some Members objecting to that being in the emergency supplemental, to say that they should have what they need to go into war? If it wasn't so serious, it would be funny. So I think the Members, we need to kind of put that to the side and say that there are other issues that we have to deal with. 
   Profiteering of the war, reams and reams of paper, Inspector General reports of how U.S. contractors have been fleecing of the U.S. taxpayer dollar. Our paramount, one of our fiscal paramount responsibilities is to make sure that the Federal tax dollar is not only appropriated, but disseminated in the right way to make sure that ultimate accountability is paramount once again. 
   So I am excited about what is happening here, Mr. Speaker, I am excited about the debate that is taking place, and I am excited about the forward progress that we are making in that area. 
   I just want to address one more thing before I turn it over to my colleague, Ms. Wasserman Schultz. 
   Mr. Speaker, I was very disturbed last week and have been disturbed, and here in the 30-Something Working Group, we have been talking quite a bit about our veterans. Now, I mentioned that a little earlier because the veterans, we say we are the 30-something Working Group. A lot of those veterans are 30-something now. Many of them are even 20-something, because of their service. Some of them are 40 and 50-something. And they are coming back. 
   In the last Congress, in the 109th and 108th, those were the only two Congresses I can account for, because beyond that it was my mother serving here, and I am pretty sure that I can get a good account from her about what happened or I can research in the Congressional Record, we have Members coming to the floor chest-beating, ``Oh, I support the men and women in uniform and our veterans, and I am going to be in the veterans parade and I am going to wave and carry on and I am going to let them know that I love them.'' 
   Well, let me just say this: In the 108th and the 109th Congresses, veteran benefits were cut, period. They were cut. And as we continue to talk about it, as we continue to dissect the President's budget, this document here, as we continue to dissect this budget here, find out what is in it and what is not in it, what is going to be given to the American people and what is going to be taken away, we are going to find out where this administration falls and the old majority in this House falls on the issue of veterans.     
   Now, I can speak, and I know we can speak, in a very bold voice when we talk about our commitment to veterans. I have a veterans hospital in my district. I have actually two. When I go and visit, I look at those men and women. They could have served back in Korea, World War II. I even met a gentleman who served in Grenada, Haiti, 82nd Airborne. You have these individuals that are there. Vietnam, that are there. Some folks may not know that they served, but we know they served. 
   Our responsibility in Congress is not to just carry on and talk about how we support the men and women in uniform and those who have served, and we honor them and we appreciate them; but I think it is important that we speak with our dollars and our commitment here as Members of Congress. 
   In January of 2003, the Bush administration cuts off veterans health care for 164,000 veterans. That is on our Web site. 
   March 2003, the Republican budget cuts $14 billion from veterans health care. That was passed by Congress with 199 Democrats voting against that measure of cutting the $14 billion. 
   In March 2004, the Republican budget shortchanged veterans health care again by $1.5 billion. That was passed by the Congress, 201 Democrats voting against that measure. 
   March 2005, President Bush's budget shortchanges veterans health care again by more than $2 billion. Again, 201 Democrats voted against that. This was House Resolution 95. The vote number was 98. 
   In the 30-Something Working Group, we actually pull information from the Congressional Record. I think it is important that Members and the American people realize that. 
   Again, November 2005, the Bush administration as it relates to the shortfall, Democrats fought that summer to be able to get back the $2.7 billion that was taken out. And we have a member  of the Appropriations Committee here, but in the last continuing resolution because the Republicans did not do their job, Mr. Speaker, in making sure that the work was done when the Democratic Congress took over, they couldn't get all of the bills passed. They just kept punting down the street. In our continuing resolution, we retooled Members' projects and other nonissues that weren't a priority because of the thirst that veterans have and the Department of Veterans has to provide the services for our men and women that serve. The Democrats increased the VA health care budget by $3.6 billion in a joint funding resolution. I say all of that to indicate it is important that we do this. 
   One last point. While we were on break, The Washington Post: ``Soldiers face neglect and frustration at Army top medical facility'' here in Washington, D.C., Walter Reed Hospital. This is a Washington Post article, Sunday, February 18, 2007. It was dropped here on my doorstep in Washington, D.C. I read this, and it was a follow-up article. I think it is important that the American people and Members of Congress pay close attention to what is happening. 
   You have patients and outpatients that are saying that Walter Reed, they are encountering a messy bureaucratic battlefield that reminds them of the real one that they faced overseas. 
   It also talks in this article about rats and mice and dead insects in this hospital. Smells and carpet stains. 
   Again, Mr. Speaker, our job, yes, we say we support the troops. Yes, we say we support veterans. We are supposed to say that. But when we come here and we take our voting card out and we go to these committees, we have to make sure that we follow through on what we say. 
   So I am excited by the fact that by reading everything that I have read about what has happened in the last two Congresses and beyond, that we have already put $3.6 billion, and we haven't had a full cycle to be able to even dissect the budget and to appropriate. So saying that, I want to pass it over to the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Wasserman Schultz), a good friend of mine. I am glad she is here to shed light on our message here tonight. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I thank you so very much for yielding. I think it is important for us to also realize that the next action that we will probably, no probably, we will have on Iraq, Mr. Speaker and Members, will be the $99.6 billion emergency supplemental to the war. And I think it is important that we pay very close attention to this vote that is coming up and what leads up to that vote. 
   I spoke earlier about making sure that troop readiness, that troops have what they need when they go. I spoke of going to get a procedure done. You have a medical procedure that needs to be done, the first thing you want to check and make sure is the doctor has what he or she needs to be able to complete the procedure, because you do want to get up from that table one day. 
   This is very, very important. And I think that as we continue to talk about this issue of Iraq, it is our responsibility; we cannot critique the present administration or the past majority in this House if we do the same thing they did and expect different results. That is just not going to happen. We know that those that have come before us, whatever authority they might have been from the executive branch, and said they have what they need, we have the up-armored Humvees, we have all the things that they need when they get there. We were told that. And, better yet, we still have men and women at Walter Reed and other veterans hospitals, military hospitals throughout this country and even in Germany, and I visited twice, that are without legs because they didn't have the up-armored Humvees that they needed. 
   So saying all of that, the debate is going to be: Are we going to do the same thing that the Republican majority did, saying that we talk a good game about standing up on behalf of the troops and we disagree with the President on certain issues as it relates to Iraq? But if we do what they did, which was very little, then what happened in November will not reach its full potential in making sure that we head in a new direction. 
   So I think it is important that we take this in a very strong way, and I am glad that we had 17 Republicans join us on a nonbinding resolution before we left here, the last big action that we took before we left on Presidents' break. And I encourage more of my Republican colleagues to be a part of this movement in the new direction. I think it is very, very important. I think there have been a lot of things that have been highlighted. I know that the whole coalition of the willing will soon be the coalition of one, because we are 
   going to be the only country that is left. There is a lot of rhetoric going on, we have to be there because we have to fight them over there so we don't have to fight them here. I don't hear Great Britain saying that. I don't hear some of the other countries that have announced their departure and those that have left Iraq. 
   I am one to believe, just as a single Member, that there will be a U.S. presence for some time in the region. But at the levels that we are now, over 143,000 troops and counting, it is going to be very difficult for us to continue to sell to the American people that there is a great need to keep those kinds of levels there. And as you spoke earlier about the readiness issue, this is very, very important. This is very, very important. I mean, we wouldn't want to get the word out to the undesirables here in the United States of America to say that law enforcement here is not ready to deal with major crimes here in the United States of America. We definitely don't want to get the word out to the rest of the world that we are not prepared to defend ourselves in a way that we should and need to be prepared to be able to defend ourselves or help our allies in the future. 
   So I think that is important. It is something not to take lightly. A lot of work has to be done here. A lot of tough votes have to be taken. And we have to communicate with the Members and the American people to not let them fall behind as we go through reforming this House and reforming the legislative presence in this whole debate on Iraq. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Mr. Murphy. And I want to thank Mr. Altmire for joining us and also Ms. Wasserman Schultz. I want to thank the Democratic leadership for allowing us to have one more 30-something Working Group hour. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, it was an honor addressing the House of Representatives. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP: THE ECONOMY -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, it is an honor to come before the House once again. As you know, the 30-something Working Group comes to the floor to share issues that are before the Congress not only with many of our colleagues but also with the American people. 
   But at this time, Madam Speaker, I am going to yield to Congresswoman Moore. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP: THE ECONOMY -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Ms. Moore. And I can tell you anytime we get a chance to come to the floor and honor our patriots is always a day that the Congress should yield and pay respect to not only that individual but also the family. 
   Madam Speaker, I think it's important we start to look at what the Congress is facing right now and the American people are facing right now as it relates to the economy. The news has been for the last 5 to 10 days the economy, stimulating the economy, and it is very important that we do so. And as you know, many news accounts have shown the President, also the Speaker of the House, and the Democratic leader in the Senate meeting. You have also seen meetings with the Republican leadership and Democratic leadership here in the Congress. The American people are counting on us working in a bipartisan way, and I just want to make sure that all Members know that this is nothing new for the Democratic House of Representatives, especially the majority of Democrats that are here, because we came in saying we wanted to work in a bipartisan way. As a matter of fact, Madam Speaker, I went back and pulled out a chart because so many times here in the 30-something Working Group it's important that we share with the Members what we have already done and what we can do. And I will use this chart all the way up to today. 
   Many of these acts took place in the first session of the 110th Congress, and it was the first time, with your help,  Madam Speaker, we were able to take the majority of the House: 
   Implementation of the 9/11 Commission recommendations, H.R. 1, passed with 299 Democratic votes with 68 Republican votes. Raising the minimum wage, H.R. 2, passed 315 with 82 Republican votes. The funding for enhanced stem cell research passed 253 with 37 Republican votes. Making prescription drugs more affordable, H.R. 4, passed 255 with 24 Republican votes. And cutting student loan interest rates in half, H.R. 5, passed this House of course with Democratic votes, all the Democratic votes, 356 with 124 Republicans voting with Democrats on that bill in a bipartisan way. And also creating long-term energy initiatives, H.R. 6, which passed 264 votes with 36 of those votes being Republican votes. 
   That's bipartisanship. Those are major pieces of legislation, Madam Speaker. This is nothing new to the Democratic majority. 
   I think it's also important to point to just today here on this floor maybe about 2 hours ago, Democrats and Republicans voted to override the President's veto, and that vote was a bipartisan vote, not enough to stop the President from stopping us from doing what the American people wanted us to do. A bipartisan vote, 265, and that vote was a very important vote. We had 43 Republicans voting with us on that. 
   I think it's important, Madam Speaker, as we start to move forth on this whole economic stimulus discussion that we continue to work in a bipartisan way, but we're going to need more bipartisanship. Democrats are there at the line ready to do it. And I have a document here that's very easy for any Member to get a copy of that was prepared by the office of the majority leader on June 5 of 2007: ``House Democrats' bipartisanship leads to progress.'' And I also would ask all of my Republican colleagues to grab a copy of it. But I think that it's important that we reflect back on this document to really pay attention to what we have already done and what we can do. But we don't want to end up getting ourselves in a situation where we start deal breaking. When I say ``deal breaking,'' we know that the President and we know that the majority leader has met and we know that the Speaker has met at the White House just recently, just yesterday, and they have been meeting and talking on the telephone. As you know, we try to break this down as much as we can. We also know that in the House, we have had a Democratic economic forum, which was December 7, closing out last year. This whole economic stimulus discussion and effort did not start when it started hitting headlines. We were already out there on these issues. Ongoing discussion between House leaders and Secretary Paulson, who is the Secretary of the Department of Treasury, that has been going on. So many dates, too many to note here on this chart. A Democratic leadership letter to the President dated the 11th of this month. Also the Speaker has met with the Federal Reserve Chairman on January 14 and also the Democratic leadership meeting with Republican leaders on January 16. And those discussions continue to go on, some that are documented, some that are undocumented. A Democratic leadership meeting with Republican leaders again the following day. We also had a Democratic and Republican leadership meeting with the Treasury Secretary that took place on January 22, just a day ago. Also a Democratic and Republican leadership meeting with the President that I mentioned a little earlier. 
   We're going to continue to pay attention to this bipartisanship, and when I say ``we,'' I mean those of us in the 30-something Working Group, because I think it should be encouraged. We have always talk about it. I, being a creature of two previous Congresses, always said that bipartisanship can only be achieved when the majority allows it to happen. We have a Democratic majority now that is allowing it to happen. If we start talking and going back and forth on retail politics, the only people that are going to lose are the American people, and I'm not in the business of seeing that happen. 
   I think it's important also to know that there will be statements made and we have to make sure that we clear those statements up so that we don't have misunderstandings and we start going off into another direction on this whole effort of bipartisanship. I'm saying that and I came to the floor with that theme here today because it's important. If folks want to prove the differences between the two parties, find another way to do it, not necessarily on this economic stimulus package because so many Americans, Democrat, Republican, independent, those that can't even vote yet, those individuals that are dealing with the muddiness of life, that don't have what they need to make ends meet, and our economy is not in the posture for us to play games for several months to come going back and forth. So as much as we can as Members of the House, we need to meet. We need to understand one another. When we misunderstand one another, we need to meet again to make sure that we can work together, something that everyone talks about during the election season that they want to go to Washington, D.C. and work in a bipartisan way. I don't care where you are, if your district is 89 percent Republican or 89 percent Democrat or what have you, independent, Green Party, you name it. You don't want to run on the platform that I'm going to Washington, D.C. to be a partisan. You don't run on that platform. You run on the platform that you're going to bring people together, that you're going to work across the aisle to get the job done for your constituents.     
   So I think it is very, very important, Madam Speaker, to put those words into action. 
   And what I am seeing here and what I have seen, Madam Speaker, of the last 4 to 5 days have been what one may see in a piece of campaign literature or what one may see when someone speaks on television about how they are going to do things better if they get an opportunity to do it. You have that opportunity. Don't let that opportunity slip through your fingers when others try to derail the process. 
   Today, I can say that what took place was an effort, and we tried to override the President on the children's health insurance bill, we may say the State Children's Health Insurance program. I think it is important with the 42 Republicans that voted along with Democrats, 218 Democrats voted in affirmative, it wasn't enough to override the President, but it was a part of trying to take some of the burden off American families, because those families that are hurting right now, we know that health care cost is a huge issue when you start looking at how we are going to move this ball forward and how we are going to help American families. 
   There are a number of organizations that are in support of the State insurance plan, what we call SCHIP, that are in support of this great piece of legislation. You have the AARP. You have the American Medical Association. You have Catholic Health Association, and Families U.S.A., along with a host of other organizations that I could spend 30 minutes on the floor reading every last one of them off. But that is not going to make a difference right now for this debate or the action that we were going to take, that hopefully we wanted to take place a couple of hours ago, to be able to allow children that are in need of health care insurance. We were denied that opportunity, and I can't say that the Republicans stopped us. I can say that 42 Republicans did what they had to do to be able to stimulate this, not only this economy, putting more dollars into the pockets, very few dollars into the pockets of Americans so that they don't have to spend those dollars in providing health care to kids that happen to be born into financially challenged families, and that would have been a way to assist them. But there were a number of Republicans that voted against the legislation that denied us from having that opportunity. 
   But I have hope, Madam Speaker, that before this 110th Congress is out we will be able to provide that level of health care. We talked about universal health care. Starting with our children first is very, very imperative for us to be able to head in that direction. 
   As we start dealing with the issues, when we move to the Senate, we have rule 22, that you have to have 60 Senators to be able to bring anything to the floor in an appropriate way or to be  able to procedurally get it there. I think it is important because I am trying to look down the road because I have been down this road before. We get that warm and fuzzy feeling in our heart and start believing what we are reading and start saying, Wow, this is unbelievable. People are working together and we are actually going to move something through the process. Republicans are happy. Democrats are happy. And then we run into a handful of Senators, and the Senate may very well say, Well, we are not happy. And the reason why we are not happy is that I want to make sure that I can make some of the tax cuts that have been put out there now that are not right put into the moment, because that is what this is about. 
   This stimulus package is not about stimulating the economy 8 months from now. It is about stimulating the economy right now. And it's important that we get it to the target audience that is going to help us do that. 
   And so I think that any other great ideas that may come out of, independently of the bipartisan discussion that has been going on for almost double-digit days now will be counterproductive to us moving this piece of legislation forward. We know that when we come to final rest on this legislation, we know a lot of things are on the table that are going to create right-now jobs, that are going to create right-now investment, and it is going to be able to get into the hands of Americans that are going to spend those dollars to be able to jump-start our economy, to be able to bring it out of the, quote, unquote, I don't want to use the ``R'' word, but the recession that folks are talking about and that economic indicators some feel we are in, some feel we are not. We have some individuals saying technically we may be in one. 
   The bottom line is the economy is not what it needs to be to be able to continue the United States of being in the position that we are in right now, well, in a better position, a position we have been in the past, of being not only the largest economy in the world as it relates to a nation but also being very strong and very vibrant. 
   We know that we can get in these very high altitude conversations of saying that it is important for us to be able to have trade, it is important for us to see small business start-ups, it is important for American people to be able to buy things at an affordable cost. But it is also important for us to pass this economic stimulus package within days, not weeks, not months. So I want to make sure, speaking to all of my colleagues here in the House, that we move with the spirit of saying that we are going to deal with the target audience that we are trying to reach right now, and that we are going to do it in a way that is bipartisan and that we won't have any last-minute legislative Hail Marys or amendments or procedural maneuvers that will stop us from achieving the goal of carrying out at least one major act at a time of urgency on behalf of the American people. We have done it before with other major pieces of legislation, but this economic stimulus legislation is very, very, very important. 
   Now, Madam Speaker, I think that as we start to look at this, because I want to make sure the Members are able to communicate not only with the 30-Something Working Group but also with me independently, or any staff or what have you that wish to do so, can be reached at 30somethingdems@mail.house.gov. The reason why I give that Web site out, Madam Speaker, we have to call it out when we see it. It is almost like we are in the football season right now, and there is a lot of replays, and some of the replays are called within the last 2 minutes from the officials' box in what you may call the sweet area in a football stadium. And I think it is important that if you see this kind of activity that will derail this bipartisan spirit that we have right now, we need to call it out. We need to be able to say that that is going to be counterproductive. We already know that the agenda in trying to continue the tax cuts that were brought about under President Bush, and I believe the President is in the position of saying we don't need that part of tax legislation to be a part of this stimulus package, that is for another date, that is for us to deal with, that is for us to hash through in the Ways and Means Committee, which I am proud to be a member of, that is another day's debate. It is not a debate on this economic stimulus package that we are going to hopefully bring to the floor within days. I want to be able to head that off so that we don't have to waste the American people's time to really get into this issue of another debate as it relates to the tax issue. So I think it is important as we continue to move through this process that Members communicate with Members because a lot of folks say, well, it is just a lack of communication of the reason why we are not able to be successful in pushing some of these issues forward. 
   I can also shed light on another issue, Madam Speaker, and that issue is the fact that we have a number of different tracks that are taking place here in the House and also in this Congress. The campaign spirit that is out there right now amongst the Presidential candidates, Democrat and Republican, and what we do here, that spirit, the spirit that we have here in the House may very well be broken based on what someone may say, and many of those individuals are Members of Congress, may say as it relates to their plans. Making those political statements here on the floor through legislation or trying to push into an economic stimulus package because someone said it on the campaign trail and for them to be able to say, well, that was just introduced, you know, in the, in this discussion, may be counterproductive if it is not within the spirit of what we are trying to do here. 
   I also would like to share a statement that was made a little earlier today as we start talking about that spirit, and the Republican leader said, I hope that 
   Democrats are not looking to give nontaxpayers rebates or what have you or incentives. I want to just clear it up. I am assuming that he is not speaking of those individuals that are paying payroll taxes, because they are. So many individuals, they don't have to pay because they pay so much in payroll tax, and we do have that. And also when we talk about a targeted audience, that targeted audience is the audience that will put the money into the economy versus saying, Well, I have received this rebate check, or, I have received some sort of incentive that will change my economic attitude towards spending, so I am going to go put it over here and invest it to deal with it at another time and another day. That won't be the kind of investment that will help us move this economy forward. I think it is important for us to pay attention to that, and just because someone is what I define as financially challenged, means that they cannot participate in what we are trying to do in stimulating this economy because we need them and we need them to keep this economy moving. 
   I am glad to see that the spirit of the majority, of Chairman Rangel, who put out a statement today, the economic stimulus package, must help lower and middle-income families, I don't think there is anything wrong with that statement, and I think that it is within the spirit of what we are talking about here. Mr. Rangel goes on to say that the intent of the economic stimulus package has not yet been written, but everything remains on the table; however, I would like to respond to suggestions that various Republican leaders have made to prevent the stimulus package from reaching hardworking families. I think that it is also important that as we look at that, as we look at that statement there, again, we are looking at responding, and we are looking at working within the spirit of this legislation that we are communicating. 
   Many times things are said, like I mentioned here earlier, like the Republican leader mentioned that he was concerned about that it is important to put it in black and white so that everyone can understand. I know, I know my Republican colleagues want to make sure these tax cuts meet lower and middle-class families. I hope that I am not proven wrong as it relates to any vote that may happen in committee or any vote that may happen here on this floor. But it is important that we put these statements out there and for it to be able to reach these hardworking families who work from paycheck to paycheck and make contributions to Social Security and Medicare, as Mr. Rangel goes on to say, or who may have recently lost their jobs, any argument on this issue that will be equally  met with vigorous discussion as it relates to tax incentives to businesses. 
   Now, here is another piece as we start to look at this very issue, dealing with businesses and dealing with individuals. The backbone of our economy are small businesses, and I guarantee you that small businesses will be a part of this economic stimulus package. But at the same time, let's not leave back in the dust those Americans that we know that will pump dollars into the economy and we know that have been paying payroll taxes and we know that have been paying into Social Security. So when we look at that, let's make sure that we work in a bipartisan way and that we understand each other. 
   Madam Speaker, I encourage rapid response. I encourage Members to say, Well, if this is the way I feel, I am going to say the way I feel, but at the same time, be able to receive that answer or, at the same time, continue to meet. 
   This chart I pulled out earlier, Madam Speaker, twice on this chart, and we will have it every time we come to the floor in the 30-Something Working Group, Democratic leadership meeting with Republican leaders, 1/16 of this month, Democratic leaders meeting with Republican leaders, 1/17. If they met in the a.m. and p.m., I would like to even put that down because I think it is important that we have that. Goodness gracious, if we were able to pull together this package in a way that American people will see that folks are actually talking daily in a meaningful talk, not just shooting shots over the bow of the ship, meaningful talk, hopefully we will be able to resolve issues like the impasse that we have had on the issue of health care, the impasse that we have had on the issue of Iraq and other various important issues that have come before this Congress.     
   This should be encouraged. I'm a Democrat. I enjoy being in the majority. And I hope that we are in the majority for as long as the sun rises in the East and sets in the West. I hope that happens. 
   But as long as we are in the majority, it doesn't mean that we can't also have that same spirit towards bipartisanship, and that's important. Because I have been in the minority before, and I know how it feels. I know how it feels when you can't get a bill agendaed in a certainty; you can't get a bill agendaed in the committee or you can't get your amendment heard on the floor. I know how that feels. 
   But I think it's very, very important that as we look at these very important issues that are facing our Nation, that we use that bipartisanship in a way that we haven't used it in the past. And we have passed bills in a bipartisan way, as I said a little earlier in the hour, but do it in a way that it will be a jaw drop for the American people. They'll say, wow, this is interesting how they came together and made this happen without trying to make a political stand. 
   I think that from what I'm reading and what I'm seeing, it seems like the President is on board. It seems like the Speaker is on board, seems like the majority leader is on board. It even seems like the minority leaders in both chambers are on board. 
   So as we look at rule XXII over in the Senate and we look at the 60 vote, the procedural piece that has to happen before you get to bring in any bill before the Senate, that that spirit lives within those Republican Members that will help us get to that 60. 
   When I say ``us,'' it's only 51 Democrats in the Senate, but let's continue to pay very close attention to it. 
   Mr. Ryan, I'm so glad to see you all the way from Niles, Ohio. We know the Republicans will be going to a retreat this week. So we have an opportunity to work off line and do some work and get back to the district and do some great things. But this whole issue about economic stimulus, I tell my friends, when I come to the floor, even when you're not here, I make reference to what I have seen in your district, what is happening in your district and how important this bill is for Ohio just as important as it is for Florida. 
   I yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP: THE ECONOMY -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You're right. You're right. 
   I was talking earlier before you walked in on cloture. I believe it's called cloture in the Senate, and it's an old French word for closure. You hear it all the time, but you don't necessarily know the meaning of it. It sounds like it was something as it relates to clothes, but that's what it means in English pretty much. 
   And I think that when we look at this issue and the fact that we always get to the point where even when we get our act together here in the House, it's either one or two Chambers. It's either the House or the Senate. 
   Let's look at the SCHIP override. The Senate has a veto-proof vote in the Senate: 68 Senators voting in the affirmative for SCHIP. 
   In the House, we fall short. I think here in the House that we may very well have the kind of bipartisanship we need to get this economic stimulus package passed. But in the Senate, I'm concerned. I'm very concerned because you have 51 Democrats and you are going to need 9 Republican Senators, and I'm hoping, just hoping, that we are able to get the nine for it to be true bipartisanship. So that means the Republican leader is just as important as the Democratic leader, and we are trying to move this process through. 
   And I think that we need to pay very close attention, and also pay attention to what is being said in the Senate, what's being said here in the House because this piece of legislation is too important. I don't think that Democrats can hang their hat and say, ``We passed the legislation to stimulate the economy.'' I don't think the Republicans can say it without saying Democrats, vice versa. So I think that is important that we pay attention. And I keep saying that because I know that in this building, and we are talking about the 500-plus Members of Congress and all of our great ideas that we may have, coming to the table with an amendment or making a procedural move through any one of the said committees could very well derail this spirit that we have. 
   We have a war that's going on in Iraq. As of today, we have 3,929 individuals that have lost their lives in Iraq, and we have had a number of them wounded in action, 15,996. And we have those families that are living in this economy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP: THE ECONOMY -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. That is correct. So we have a number of loss of life. 
   The point I'm trying to make here is that we even have numbers for Afghanistan and what is happening there, and we just had an Armed Services meeting a little earlier today, and there is discussion. One of the witnesses, a lieutenant general, said, ``Well, the Afghans are saying what, Americans, will you leave us?'' Well, this is a big question when we talk about spending, we talk about the economy. 
   Let me draw this picture here. You go to dinner with your friends and there's six of you, and the bill comes out to like, I don't know, 4- or $500. You have been there for a couple of hours, of course ordering several appetizers and ice tea and an entree, and it comes up to $600. Do you spend the time of divvying up the bill and collecting the money, or do you always have to get up and say, ``I have it. I'll take care of it?'' You know what I'm talking about? 
   That's what America has been saying to every conflict we have ever had. Afghanistan, for what needs to happen there, do we always have to be the people there who say, ``I got it?'' 
   The euro is doing a lot better than the dollar right now, and there's a separation between NATO and EU, and they have their own account and they're making investments. 
   Afghanistan is the gateway to narcotics, illegal drugs into Europe. And so the fact that I know that they're playing a role already, but I'm saying that even a greater role, we are in it because of terrorism. We are in it. Madam Speaker knows exactly what I'm talking about. We are in it not only in the terrorist end, terrorism, trying to prevent terrorism not only in the world, but also domestically.     
   But I think it is important that the EU plays a greater role. There is going to be three reports released, from what we were told in committee today, and the next 10 days dealing with that variation. 
   I shared those two scenarios just to say that as we start looking at the bipartisanship spirit that we have, the bipartisanship spirit that we have and continue to build on, we have to do it in all economic issues, because we can talk about the war, and the two wars that are going on, it has a lot to do with economics that we are facing or the problems that we are having here in this country as it relates to our own economy because of the debt that we are spending, or that we are paying down on, and it is continuing to build. 
   It is continuing to build, even though we have spent several hours here on this floor talking about if you are going to spend it, you have got to pay for it. Then we find ourselves in a situation where we are pushed up in a corner of the wall where the American people have to pay for the fact that we are unable to work in a bipartisan way to get the job done in the time we should get it done before it becomes a crisis situation. 
   So this bipartisanship is just a lot bigger than just a word. You can just say I am bipartisan. It is bigger than that. It has a lot to do with how much we pay for something. It is almost like a plane ticket. I am breaking it down because I want to make sure, because here in Washington we have big, lofty terms and using acronyms. It is like a plane ticket. If you have to buy a plane ticket, and you buy it on the day of travel, you are going to pay more than you would have paid 30 days in advance or 2 weeks in advance or a 7-days-in-advance ticket. 
   Without bipartisanship, we find ourselves buying the ticket hours before the flight when it is imperative that we get on the flight, when we could have gotten on it cheaper and even probably better seating with a 30-day-in-advance or a 60-day-in-advance. 
   As we look at this, we have to not only clip, but we have to pay attention. I am asking all the Members to pay attention to it, because we pay more when we fight on these issues that must happen here in this country on behalf of the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP: THE ECONOMY -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You can't wait. You can't throw it off to the side. You can't, say, sling-shot in the end for a win. You can't do any of that kind of stuff. You have to do it in a very responsible way. 
   Again, if we keep saying it, if I look at the Congressional Record tomorrow and see bipartisanship, bipartisanship, and even more bipartisanship, that is fine with me, because it is almost like McDonald's. I mean, I feel like going and getting a number 3 after a football game because I have seen it eight times. I really think I actually like certain things at McDonald's, which I do. You can just look at me and tell. 
   But I think it's important that we continue to talk about what's happening right now and what the President has to say when he comes and walks down this aisle next week, I believe, when he comes in here to come talk to us about what's going to happen in this economic stimulus package, what's going to happen as it relates to the two wars going on, what's going to happen as it relates to health care. This opportunity that we have now, 10 days of discussion, bipartisanship, he stepped off the plane from the Middle East and had bipartisanship stamped on his lapel saying we have got to get this going. We have to make it happen even though there was a letter that the Speaker and the majority leader wrote him on 1/11 of this month saying, What's the plan? This is what we want to do. We have to stimulate the economy. Let's do it. 
   We had our economic summit on 12/7 of last year, having deep discussions as Democrats on this very issue. I think it is important, the President comes down. He has to almost give the speech of his life, but guess what? Action has to follow it. This reminds me, Mr. Ryan, I think we were both State senators at this time, when the planes hit the Twin Towers, the plane hit the Pentagon and one went down in Pennsylvania, that spirit that we had then when people were willing and looking for leadership on the issue of how we are going to come back together as Americans and how we are going to pick this country back up. We have this opportunity. 
   The President has this opportunity to lead. This is his last year in office. We have Republicans and Democrats that have an opportunity to change the opinion of the American people on how we can work together. 
   So in this last half of this 110th Congress where we are talking about bipartisanship, and I am just saying talking about it, let's show them some real action. We came together on economic stimulus. We came together on this issue of Iraq. This discussion that I am hearing the President, I want to go and have this kind of bilateral discussion and sign a piece of paper and lock our hands on Iraq for years to come, is not bipartisanship. There has to be some discussion in Congress on that. 
   It is important that as we start looking at Afghanistan and what we are going to do there, I think it is very important that the President can use that in a bipartisan way. So if we are going to make a deal, let's make a deal on bipartisan agreements as we move from this point on. This is the talk of the year that a lot of folks have made New Year's resolutions. I don't know. Maybe the President said, I am willing to be bipartisan, and he talked about it during his original campaign. I am not a divider. I bring people together. I make sure that folks worked together, I mean, united. I mean, that was the word that he used. 
   I think that if we want to do that, then we are going to have to do it in a way that does an even better job than we did in the first half of the session. We can't paint a clearer picture on how important this is. 
   In closing, Mr. Ryan, I want to ask you if you would, we still have time, a few minutes, if you would, and our colleagues, you see these ideas, that is how they come, being drafted or being mentioned, or something outside of the bipartisan discussions that have been going on that is here on this chart, and you are not bubbling your great idea to your leadership, and your leadership is not putting it on the table, and I see your leadership, Democrat or Republican, then it is going to derail what the American people want. That is an 
   opportunity to stimulate the economy and stimulate the family economy and to make sure that we can remain strong and prosperous. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP: THE ECONOMY -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much, Mrs. Jones. Being a member of the Ways and Means Committee, we talk about the economy. I know that we will have a lot to do and say about that, and we talked about a bipartisan spirit. But we have, I think, like 2 more minutes left. But if you want to share anything as it relates to the economy that you would like to share with us, you can. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP: THE ECONOMY -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Mrs. Jones. 
   We want to encourage the Members and also anyone who is watching us here on the floor, the 30-Something Democrats at 30somethingdems@mail.house.gov and www.speaker.gov/30something. You said something that I think is very, very important in this debate. 
   We are not here drinking the tea. I mean, we are not here saying, Oh, let's just all link up together and flowers falling from the ceiling and all and that we are working in a bipartisan way. What we are doing is saying that we are working like the American people would like for us to work on this very important issue. We are hoping that the President continues to do what he is doing as it relates to talking to Democratic leaders and real-time, Democratic leaders speaking with the President, Republican and Democratic leaders in the Congress continuing to work together in real-time, meeting day after day, morning and evening, so that we can put together a work product so that we can all work for it and get it out to the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (HONORING MRS. MARIANNE HEINEMANN RUSSO -- (House of Representatives - November 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I am honored and I want to thank Members of Congress for allowing me to make this statement. This is concerning the death of a very dear friend of mine and a great American that has served our country, Marianne Russo. On November 12, 2007, Ms. Russo died at the age of 71 in her home in Elkdale House in Lincoln University, Pennsylvania. 
   Ms. Russo was born on May 7, 1936, in New Canaan, Connecticut. She graduated from Little Red Schoolhouse, New Canaan Country Day School, the Baldwin School and Mount Holyoke College. 
   She earned a master's degree in history at Columbia University and a master's in linguistics at the University of Delaware. During the peak of the civil rights movement, Ms. Russo and her husband, the late Paul Anthony Russo, made a significant contribution to history by teaching at Lincoln University, a historically black institution. 
   Ms. Russo's passion for teaching and writing prompted her to organize a local writers' group and participated in the Key West Literary Seminar, which created the Marianne Russo scholarship for inspiring writers. 
   In addition to this achieving excellence as a teacher and a writer, Ms. Russo coordinated grass-roots efforts to elect progressive Democratic candidates to serve on local, State and Federal Government levels. In fact, she was the recipient of the Lifetime Achievement Award from the OxGrove Democratic Committee. 
   Today I ask Members of Congress to take time to honor Ms. Russo who is not only a patriot but a great American. Ms. Russo dedicated her life to serving others as a teacher and a published writer. 
   As an accomplished author, teacher, political activist, and recipient of numerous awards and honors, Ms. Russo has truly left behind an excellent legacy. Her excellence will continue to shine through her four children and four grandchildren, all of the individuals she enriched in her classrooms, organizations and literary works. 
   As a member of the Congressional District 17 in Miami, Florida, I have the honor to be the Congressman for her daughter, Monica Russo, President of SEIU Healthcare Florida, and also serves on the international board of SEIU. 
   In addition, I have the opportunity and great honor and the blessed privilege to be the godfather for her granddaughter, Giovanna, who I love and appreciate, and I know that she will continue the family legacy. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it is important that we recognize Americans like Ms. Russo and her husband, Mr. Russo. They are in a better place now. And what they have left here in this country and here in the United States of America is a sense of pride, a sense of activism, and a sense of love. 
   I would also like to state into the Record that a memorial and celebration in her honor celebrating her life will be held on Saturday, November 17, 2007, at 2:00 p.m. at Penns Grove School Auditorium, 301 South Fifth Street, Oxford, Pennsylvania. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would like to furthermore say that many times Members come to the floor to share with the Members of Congress the great contributions of Americans that have moved on to a greater place, some on the battlefield in an area of war, some that were patriots here teaching and pushing Americans to take part in this democracy. I am very proud of Ms. Russo's accomplishments. I know that her spirit will continue to live in this country, and I know there are other Ms. Russos that are out there that are going to carry the spirit at the grassroots level. 
   I say to the Russo family that is gathered at the family home to celebrate her life, celebrate her life as though she is still here, because she is. And she will live within you and live within me and live within other Americans that appreciate Americans like her. 
   Mr. Speaker, it gives me great honor, before we go on this Thanksgiving break when we surround ourselves with family and friends, to let you know that sometimes we have to cry, sometimes we have to pray, and sometimes we even have joy. I ask during the holiday season, and especially for the Russo family, to live within the joy that you remember in your heart and your mind of her contributions to your family and to our country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3222, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - November 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Chairman, I want to thank you for allowing me to have 3 minutes. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am in support of the rule, and I encourage all of the Members to do so. As a sitting 5-year member on the Armed Services Committee, having an opportunity to look not only over this bill but being a part of the voting for Defense bills or Defense appropriations bills in the past, I am proud of it. 
   We have the responsibility here in Congress not only to make sure they  have up-armor, bullets, what have you, meals, the things they need in the field, but we also have to make sure that their families are okay too. I asked for a couple of minutes because I couldn't help but witness the passion that the whip had when he came to the floor about making sure that military families have the same opportunities as those who are not in the military. 
   I think it's important for us to realize, Members, that there are some individuals that are privileged, there are some people that have the opportunity to be with their sons and daughters, but we also have people who are in harm's way. In a time of war, we have to make sure that life doesn't stop for those families that are left behind. 
   I just want to add, so that we start looking at this issue, not to make it a debate, because it was debated earlier today, but this bill is doing some of the great things as it relates to the MRAP vehicles we have in Iraq. I was just in Fallujah a couple of months ago. It was my third trip to Iraq. I am proud to see some of the work that is starting to take place there as it relates to the equipment getting to the men and women. But I can say that this issue of making sure that families have what they need when we have men and women in harm's way is not a new issue. 
   I can tell you a former Member of the House, Mr. DeLay, had a $1 million FY03 Labor-HHS appropriations to the First Tee program, and these are for civilians. The program also received $2 million in FY04 Labor-HHS appropriations bill, and $1 million in the State-Justice appropriations bill. I think it's important that Members realize that when we look at these military families, they have to have the same kind of attention and appreciation that we give our men and women in harm's way. 
   I have my son here on the floor with me today; he is out of school. As Members know, we play golf together. But, guess what? I am here to play golf with him. The First Tee program has instructors to be able to work with young people when their mothers or their fathers are not there to play that role. So let's make sure that we do the right thing. 
   Madam Chairman, I want to thank you for bringing the rule to the floor. I want to thank those who are in support of the rule, but I think it's very, very important that I expect to vote in an affirmative for the rule, to make sure that we do for military families what we do for men and women in harm's way. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - December 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, it is an honor to be before the House once again. Last night we didn't know when we would end today, and we did a lot of thank-yous and good-byes and seeing the good people that we work with here in the Capitol next year. But we wanted to come to the floor, and I know that Mr. Ryan and Ms. Wasserman Schultz and Mr. Altmire and others will be coming down to give their closing comments. But, Madam Speaker, I think it is important for us to shed light on the actions of not only today, but the last 24 hours, what has happened, what will happen in the upcoming year, and all of the things that this first historic session of the 110th Congress and this New Direction Congress has accomplished. 
   Many times I have been on the floor and we talked about the difference between the glory and the story. And whenever there is glory, there is a story that is untold, and very few know about the story part. I think it is important, especially as we start to look at this point and look at where we are now as a country and where we are getting ready to go and where we have been in the recent past. 
   Two wars going on, an economic downturn, Americans losing their homes as it relates to mortgages. Also, issues that our servicemen and women have to face of not being with their family members at this very holy time of the year. And, Madam Speaker, if I can, I want to not only read into the Record but also share with the Members some of the things that we have done this past year in a bipartisan way, in my opinion, in many cases major pieces of legislation, and some we still have impasse on and we are going to have to work on it the next session. 
   I think it is important when we start looking at what this Congress accomplished, because we started out with saying that we had a Six in '06 agenda within the first 100 hours of this Congress. And if you listened to the President, the President may say, well, the Congress is not doing much. That is his opinion. Well, that is very interesting, because I remember being a part of Congress when we came in on Tuesday night and we left mid-day Thursday and got very little done. This Congress did everything but sit around and not respond to the needs of the American people. 
   We actually came here and we made America safer by passing the 9/11 Commission recommendations to protect America from terrorism. We also brought the largest veterans health care funding increase in the history of the VA. And I think that is important. You hear me speak very passionately about those that have laid it down, those that have put everything on the line so that we can salute one flag today. 
   We also passed an energy package which is historic, that is putting forth standards, increasing fuel efficiency standards to 35 miles per gallon by 2010, slash U.S. oil consumption by more than 4 million barrels per day by  2030. These are benchmarks that we want to meet as a country so that we can protect this earth for future generations and for the present generation. Also, expanding American-grown biofuels to 35 billion gallons by 2020, creating American jobs while we are doing it. 
   I think it is important for us to point back at the largest college aid expansion since the GI Bill in 1944, that cut interest rates in half on behalf of families that are trying to afford to educate their children and young people that are borrowing money to be able to educate themselves in many cases. 
   The first increase in the minimum wage in a decade. 
   I mean, the things that I am mentioning here, Madam Speaker, are accomplishments that I think far surpass my first two terms in Congress under Republican control. We did a lot of things for a lot of super-wealthy people. We carried out acts on behalf of special interests that the average American would never have an opportunity to enjoy. Here on this floor, we spent 4 years talking about what we would do if we got the opportunity, and that we have done it and we are still doing it. And it is not over and we are still in this story mode. 
   Our innovation agenda, promoting 21st century jobs for a global economy, is another accomplishment of this Congress. Aid to the Gulf Coast recovering from Hurricane Katrina and Rita. Waiving the Stafford Act requirements, the matching dollars, so that those communities and that gulf area will be able to recover. Just like Miami, just like your City of New York after 9/11, just like San Francisco had that waiver, we made sure that those gulf states and also those Americans down there that were struggling, that their cities are able to come back and their parishes are able to come back. 
   I think it is also important for us to look at the tax cut that passed this floor today for 19 million middle-class Americans that were facing an AMT hike because every year Republicans have treated it as though it is some sort of new thing by borrowing the money. Now, today there was legislation that came over from the Senate that we ended up voting and paying for because we wanted to make sure that firefighters and everyday first responders and those that are teachers that fall within that AMT that we call it, alternative minimum tax, make sure that they don't have to pay a higher tax. 
   Personally, Madam Speaker, because so many times here on this floor we talk about balancing the budget, making sure that we don't borrow on the backs of our children, I am committed that we are going to work out a way that we can vote for something that is paid for and that we can make sure that we make it happen without shutting the whole tax process down. I personally voted against paying for it with borrowed money, but I think that so many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle that voted for it, to borrow the money today because we are in a crisis situation, we are going to be facing tough votes in the future. As we borrow from China, as we borrow from these other nations that not necessarily have our best interests at heart, I think it is important that we pay attention to that. 
   We worked very hard, this is a part of this story, we are not quite there yet, on the whole SCHIP legislation, which is the health care for 10 million children. We did reauthorize the existing program at the existing numbers so that we would not have crisis in the States where kids are depending on this health care. These are things that we have to do because we have to do them for now. But I can tell you, and I hope that the American people are paying very close attention, about the effort that this Congress has put forth, Mr. Altmire, to make sure that we keep this government functional, that we try to run the government in a fiscal way, that we try to make sure that those that have been literally cut off from Federal assistance, that we are able to bring that assistance back to not only build States but also build communities and make sure that the U.S. taxpayers get what they deserve.     
   A couple of other points. I think it is also important that we look at restoring accountability, earmark lobbying, ethics reform. We have done all of that. It is all transparent and it is all there to make sure that integrity of the government is here. And we passed the pay-as-you-go rule that was adopted. 
   A number of other initiatives have passed this floor, and more rollcall votes have been taken in this first session of Congress. So really what we have done as Democrats and especially, Madam Speaker, you and Mr. Altmire and others who have joined this Congress in this session, should be very proud going back home talking about the new day and the new direction that you ran for, that you played a role in moving this Congress into a new direction, and that is what we have done. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - December 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. We are going to plow through them and make sure that all of this happens. We are going to know those bills that made it through the process. We are going to know that those bills that made it halfway through the process. We are going to understand the pieces of legislation that misbehaved along the way, and we are going to make sure that we get it right. 
   I want to say something before the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Wasserman Schultz) says something. We are going back to our neighboring districts down in Florida. I hate to talk about it in front of all of my good friends in the Clerk's Office about Florida and the sun and all of those things, but I want you to pay attention. You have to look at one another and pay attention to what is happening here. 
   This is the last night of Congress of the first session. The 30-Something Working Group is going to get an opportunity to adjourn the House for the year. We are all in the majority. We all serve on substantial committees. We all have families to go home to and do the things that we have to do. But we care enough, Madam Speaker, the commitment that we made to the American people that we were going to do what we said we were going to do, and we want to make sure that Independents, Republicans, Democrats, new voters, those thinking about voting, know that we have their back. 
   We don't have to be here tonight. That is the reason we are going to finish at 7:30. These people have commitments, too, and are ready to go home. But we are going to make sure that this goes into the Record so when the historians look at this time in this first session and all of the things that we tried to do to balance the budget and do all the things that we told them we would do in this first session, that we meant it and we held our own feet to the fire on this issue. 
   Ms. Wasserman Schultz. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - December 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I know we have time, but I made a commitment to the people that are nice to us here in the Chamber that they will be getting to be reunited with their families pretty soon. So I guess we can kind of make our closing comments, or what have you. We said 35 minutes. We have until, maybe until at least 35 after, so don't feel rushed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - December 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, we gave a lot of shout-outs to folks last night on how much we appreciate all of the staff and everyone that has made the 30-Something Working Group possible: our good friends from the Clerk's office who have been watching us for the last 5 years, also Mr. Michael here. I don't want to give out last names because Mr. Tom, you know, and others that help us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - December 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Yes, all kind of stuff. These guys are rock stars. 
   But I just want to say in closing that what we do here is very serious work, but we do bring kind of a human element to it. I'm glad that we do, because Americans understand what we are talking about. Members understand what we're talking about. And Madam Speaker, I mean, it's really a high honor for me to yield back this time, but I would also like for your freshman class brother, Mr. Altmire, to close our first session officially. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (TRIBUTE TO JOYCE HAMLETT: A WOMAN CONTINUING TO BLAZE NEW TRAILS AS KEEPER OF THE MACE -- (House of Representatives - December 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to give honor to one of our great House employees here that works in this Chamber every day, and that's Joyce Hamlett. 
   Joyce has had the opportunity to be appointed as Assistant Sergeant at Arms in charge of the mace of the House of Representatives. I think this is a very high accomplishment for someone like Ms. Hamlett who has a meek-like spirit and very nice lady, and I've been working with her, and she's been working not only with me but my mother and other Members that have served here in the House. 
   She's the first African American woman to serve as keeper of the mace. Her high moral upbringing prepares her for this honorable position. 
   Mr. Speaker, I can go further, and I do as it relates to my Congressional Record statement, but we honor not only her presence here, but we honor the fact that she gives God all of the grace and the glory for her accomplishments here in the House of Representatives.  
   Mr. Speaker and Members of Congress, as a Member of Congress, I am moved by Ms. Joyce Hamlett's trust in patience, trust in truth and trust that God has planned a great path for her life. 
   I rise to ask you to join me in recognizing the excellent service and continued professional success of Ms. Joyce Hamlett, newly appointed Assistant Sergeant of Arms for the U.S. House of Representatives. 
   Congressional business begins when the Mace is set, and ends when it is lifted. 
   There is one woman with the great responsibility to ensure that the Mace is available for this historical purpose. 
   And, in times of emergency, one woman guards the Mace and preserves its protection. 
   Ms. Joyce Hamlett is the first African American woman to serve as the Keeper of the Mace. Her moral upbringing prepared her for this honorable position. 
   Ms. Hamlett was raised by her grandfather in a church community that fostered the importance of honesty and faith. 
   Indeed, Ms. Hamlett's strong heritage has served as the guiding force throughout her career on Capitol Hill. 
   In the early 1980s, Ms. Hamlett departed Broadway, North Carolina and began her successful professional journey alongside her mother, Betty Pearson, at the Capitol Caf&#233;. 
   Within five years, Ms. Hamlett rose to cook for lawmakers upstairs in the Capitol Hill restaurant. 
   Her respectable interaction with lawmakers continued when she went on to serve as elevator operator under the Architect of the Capitol. During that time, she formed long-lasting friendships with many Members of Congress. 
   In the early 1990s, Ms. Hamlett interviewed for the position of chamber security, and soon after began to firmly enforce House rules on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. 
   As chamber security, she was well-known as one who worked hard to safeguard the principles and rich tradition of the U.S. House of Representatives. 
   Because of her excellent service, Ms. Hamlett was promoted to her current position as Keeper of the Mace. 
   Ms. Hamlett is not only Keeper of the Mace, but she is also keeper of a strong moral foundation and keeper of the wisdom and principle represented by the Mace's solid-silver eagle. 
   Mr. Speaker and Members of Congress, I congratulate Ms. Joyce Hamlett, a woman that continues to blaze new trails with distinction as Assistant Sergeant of Arms for the U.S. House of Representatives. 
   Thank you Mr. Speaker and Members of Congress.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. It's an honor to address the House one more time. 
   As you know, the 30-something Working Group, we come to share with the Members fact, not fiction. I'm so glad my good friend from Georgia (Mr. Gingrey), we came into the Congress together, Dr. Gingrey, good friend, I want to borrow that chart from him because it shows how earmarks were cut in half when the Democrats took over. But that's another story. But I'm glad that he has the accurate numbers there, and I'm glad that we're going to have an opportunity to talk about that a little bit more in the future.     
   Mr. Speaker, we came to the floor yesterday, or last night, and talked about the issue of the President's veto of the SCHIP bill. We, the 30-something Working Group, received a lot of e-mails on that, and we received a lot of phone calls. There were a number of Members that even had questions like, ``Is it true that 41 days of what we spend in Iraq could pay for a full year of health care for children? Is it true, 3 1/2 months of what we spend in Iraq, which will come out to almost $35 billion, will pay for children's health care for 5 years?'' On both of those questions I would say, ``Yes. Absolutely. The numbers are there.'' I am going to have my charts here that I had last night hopefully join me here on the floor pretty soon. 
   It is very unfortunate, Mr. Speaker, that there are people that are focusing on the President. As far as I am concerned, the President said he was going to veto the SCHIP bill, the children's health care bill, and he did. Now it is up to Members of Congress. Yesterday we voted to set the date for the time that we are going to take up the SCHIP bill again to override the President's veto. I think between now and then, Members are going to have to reflect on if they are on the side of the President, of a bad decision that was a bipartisan bill, Mr. Speaker, that Democrats and Republicans voted in a bipartisan way to send that bill to the President, or are they with the uninsured children of this country. 
   Like I said last night, there are a number of provisions in the bill that some Members may not agree with. I have been in elected service now going on 14 years, Mr. Speaker. There has always been a provision in a bill that I didn't agree with. But for the greater good, especially when you are talking about health care for children, I saw past that one line or that one provision or that one piece that was not in there. I just want to say that this health care, and let me just share this because I want to make sure that the Members understand, that 10 million low-income children would have had health care in this country. Now, that is in every State. That is in my State of Florida. That is in Ohio. That is in California. That is in New York. That is in Texas. That is in Wyoming. All over. I think it is important that we shed light on that and we continue to talk about that in the face of wasteful spending in the past. 
   Another thing about this children's health care bill that wouldn't have been a reality in the 109th Congress, the Congress before this Congress, is the fact that it is paid for. Now, I am going to illustrate in a few minutes how things used to operate here on this House floor. The American people want to move in a new direction. At my house, if we are going to do something, we have to figure out how we are going to pay for it. We are not going to say, We will put it on a credit card and get it on some unforeseen date somewhere down in the future that is not necessarily lined out or identified yet, but we will figure it out somehow. We are going to end up in foreclosure or we are going to end up in a financial situation we can't get ourselves out of. 
   That is the position we find ourselves in now, Mr. Speaker. That is the reason why, in the majority, this House and the Senate agreed in the pay-as-you-go principles to make sure that if we say we are going to spend something, we are going to pay for it. So that is very, very important. When we look at some of the issues that the other side may bring up as it relates to fiscal responsibility, you have to look at, you just have to look at the irresponsibility, or the lack of responsibility, that the Republican side had when they were in control of this House. 
   When you look at $70 billion for the war in Iraq, $50 billion in subsidies to oil companies, $8 billion, these are billions, these are not millions, in loss, waste, fraud and abuse of no-bid contracts and billions for schools and roads and clinics in Iraq, but we cannot do the same for our children. 
   I am speaking in a very simple way here today, Mr. Speaker, because I want to make sure that Members totally understand what I am saying. I don't want to lose anyone with a whole bunch of acronyms in talking about things that are way out, pie in the sky, and some folks may not understand what is going on. The bottom line is, 10 million kids need health care for 5 years. 
   The other bottom line is the fact that we showed how we would pay for it, not building into an everlasting debt. Now, I am glad that this chart has made it to the floor. I think it is important. I pulled it out last night, and I have been using this chart almost for the last 3 years. We have been updating it, but I think it is important. We talk about foreign debt and we talk about the Bush administration and Republicans here in Congress what they were able to do, $1.19 trillion in get debt over the last 6 years, and that is between 2001 and 2006. These numbers are from the Treasury Department. These are not Kendrick Meek numbers. Forty-two Presidents, 224 years, $1.01 trillion. I say that to say that the days of just stacking on top of the $1.9 trillion are over. 
   Now, when we start going down the line of what is important here, and what is important is making sure that domestically we look at the needs of our children and also of our country.  This is just an example, just to show you the per month. Now this is talking about college costs, but when you look at the per-year costs, that is $120 billion. I said, four and, 3 1/2 months. I pulled this chart just to prove a point. 3 1/2 months, $10 billion a month pays for the children's health care program. That is every State block grant, and the States get to apply it the way they want to. Many of them use private health insurance companies to provide that level of insurance that those kids need. 
   So when the President and some other folk in this Chamber in the minority, our Republican friends, they start to talk about socialized medicine, I don't know where they are getting these numbers from. I don't know where they are getting the logic from. But I can tell you what will be historic is making sure that we are able to enforce this piece of legislation. 
   I think it is important for Americans to weigh the kind of enthusiasm that the President has and our Republican colleagues may have or they do have on behalf of the Iraqi children. I'm sorry. I am a United States Congressman federalized by the people of the 17th Congressional District to come up and give representation to them and all Americans. I care about other kids in other parts of the world. I have been to Iraq. I have held Iraqi children in my arms. But guess what? I have held American children in my arms. It is not about my kids. I have two kids. We have health care. I thank God we have health care here in Congress. The people elected me to come up here and represent them not for me to have coverage and not for my kids to have coverage that they are not allowed to have, especially those that are financially challenged. 
   So I want the Members who are not thinking about overriding or who are thinking about joining in with the President and not allowing the Congress, this great democracy, the House and Senate, to override the President on this very bad decision. I also think it is important to highlight the fact that we have had a number, a number of editorials throughout the country, of papers, either it be rural America or urban America, either it be the East Coast or the West Coast or the 
   Midwest or the Deep South or the North by the Canadian border, all throughout the country, they have called the decision that the President made a very, not only unpopular, but wrong decision. 
   The President is not running for reelection, but we Members of Congress have to run for election every 2 years. The reason why we have elections is to bring about accountability and to make sure that people back home in their given districts have the right people up here. 
   I think it is important for people to pay very close attention. Mr. Speaker, if this were about politics, I wouldn't spend the time to come down to the floor. I could be doing something else on this Thursday evening after we took our last votes of the week. I could be somewhere on the telephone talking to constituents, or I could be in my house here in Washington enjoying some time with the kids and the family. But I decided to be here because representation is very, very important in this 2-week span. One day has already passed. We have 9 days left. I want to make sure that American people and every Member of Congress know that in another 9 days, there will be an action to override the President. 
   What side are they going to be on? Are they going to be on the side of the children and on behalf of the people of the United States? Or are they going to be on the side of the President and the bad decision? I am not saying the President is not for the folks, for the good people of the United States of America. All I'm saying is that 10 million children that are poor and families would have had a guaranteed health care opportunity in their State, at least 10 million of them. That is a big number. 
   So when I hear the President talk about our obligations to Iraq, I can't help but think about our obligations here to the kids here in the United States and families here in the United States. I am just as passionate as anyone else may be about it. I share that today because I want my Republican colleagues who did not vote, those that voted for the SCHIP bill, congratulations. Thank you on behalf of all Americans and the 10 million children that are seeking health care. But for those who did not vote for the SCHIP bill, for the children's health care bill, I am asking you to rethink your decision for two reasons; one, you have another chance to do the right thing if you missed the opportunity to do the right thing when we pass the children's health care bill here on this floor. You have an opportunity to do the right thing. The second thing, I think more Americans are focused, 72 percent of Americans in a bipartisan poll said that they agree with the version of the children's health care bill that we passed throughout this floor. So that means they could be on the right side of the issue, and they can provide health care for 10 million children that many of them reside in their own congressional districts. I said I would give you two. I gave you three. And I can go on and on and on. 
   I think it is also important for the staff here in Congress. I have a chart that my former chief of staff left with me. It is actually a picture, Mr. Speaker. It is an iceberg. It has a little tip of the iceberg up there, a little triangle just kind of showing the top, then underwater you can see a majority of the iceberg which is almost 80 or 90 percent of the iceberg. At the top it says, Member of Congress. Right under the iceberg it says, Staff, Congressional staff. I think it is important for those members of the staff that are paying attention to this debate and paying attention to what is happening right now in the country to talk to your Member or to talk to your ranking member and say that maybe you need to reconsider your vote. 
   Now, I am talking inside politics here under the dome. Because I don't think that this is an us-against-them kind of philosophy because we have to all be on the side of children. Like some folks say out in the neighborhood, it is what it is. And the bottom line is, 10 million children need health care and we need every person on the ground making that happen. 
   Also, I think that it is important, Mr. Speaker, and I just want to point out what happened recently. This is a picture of one of the first actions that we took here in this House. You remember. We all voted on it, to put benchmarks in and also timelines as relates to giving responsibility or mandating responsibility of the Iraqi Government to rise to the occasion to patrol the streets of Baghdad so we don't have to continue to watch our troops having to do door-to-door neighborhood-to-neighborhood checks. Put the Iraqi folks up front and allow them to do it, or make them do it, so that we don't have to continue to click off $10 billion a month, some $3,316 a second in Iraq, because every time we stay there another day, another month in a combat mode, we continue to lose out. 
   After that, the vote was so overwhelming to do that, or, as the majority, until that, the Speaker and Leader Reid decided, let's override the President because the people wanted a new direction here in the United States. Not just Democrats, not just Republicans, but the people of the United States want it.     
   Well, here are some of my good friends that are here with the President, my Republican colleagues, not one Democrat in this crowd, outside of the White House standing with the President. Mr. President, we are going to be with you and we are not going to allow the Congress to override your veto. 
   Now, what happened after this event? Well, the approval rating of Congress overall went straight down. The American people wanted action, and they got more of the same. 
   I don't want another picture like this, Mr. Speaker, because in nine days, if we find that our Republican colleagues run back down to the White House and stand on the steps with the President and say we stand with the President and we will not allow the Congress to override his veto, I think it will be a very sad day in the United States of America when we provide health care for children abroad, and we are spending $120 billion a year, and counting, in Iraq, and we have Members of Congress and we have a President who doesn't want to provide health care for 10 million children here in the United States.  
   I feel we are up here to represent especially those that are most vulnerable. I guess because the kids that will be eligible for the SCHIP program, they can't vote, they are under 18, maybe that is the reason. 
   But I ask, Mr. Speaker, that those of us that are adults, if you are a grandparent or granddad or you are a senior, or you are a mother or father or an aunt or an uncle, or if your kids have health care, and we talked about that last night, because my kids go to school with other kids, and if someone is in that classroom that has not received health care insurance and they have a cold or they have some sort of ailment, my kids are going to end up falling victim to that. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, I have two of my good colleagues from Ohio, they are about an hour-and-a-half away from each other I guess by car, the Chair of the Ethics Committee and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, who I am happy to serve with on that committee, Mrs. Stephanie Tubbs Jones, and also Mr. Tim Ryan from the great town of Youngstown, Ohio. 
   With that, I would like to yield to Mrs. Stephanie Tubbs Jones. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Real quick, reclaiming my time, that is a perfect example of what we were talking about. I mean, you weren't drinking any ``Haterade'' or anything like that. You were just like, wow, I have constituents that would love to get the same health care. 
   Mr. Speaker, that is what I was talking about just 10 minutes ago, kids abroad having opportunities that American kids don't have, and then we have a President to speak passionately about our responsibilities in Iraq and Iraqi children. But, better yet, we have children here in the United States, Mr. Speaker. 
   I can tell you, it is so wrong, the veto that the 
   President carried out. I mean, it is so wrong. I don't know how, Mr. Speaker, to be honest with you, I don't know how Members cannot vote to override the President. Because, Mr. Ryan, you know, and we said several times on this floor, that you have Members now, and you served with them too, Madam Chairman, that are watching us now and reading about the Congress, that was once upon a time, Mr. Speaker, a Member of Congress. They make bad decisions. Republicans, Democrats and independents said, guess what, we are going to send somebody up there that can make good decisions. 
   I am going to share with you, and if this was about politics, I wouldn't say this, and thank you for yielding, some of the new Republican Members that are on the other side can very well be reading the paper and watching Congress on television after next November if they vote against a chance for 10 million children to receive health care. 
   Mr. Speaker, I don't care who you are, I don't care where you came from, if you're a stone-cold conservative, Republican, what have you, we are talking about something that is paid for. It's not going into the debt. We are talking about something that provides health care for the most vulnerable children in the United States of America, and we are talking about doing the right thing as it relates to good government. The same individuals vote for subsidies for oil companies but they don't want to vote on behalf of the kids. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Before I say something here as it relates what you just said, Mr. Ryan, I think it is important for us to at least look at the argument that the President has not been able to make. He hasn't been able to make that Democrats on Capitol Hill are trying to do something that the American people should not do. We can't say that because 18 Republicans in the Senate supported the bill along with the Democrats. It is bipartisan. And 43 Governors, including 16 Republicans, are in support of the SCHIP bill and children's health care, and 270 organizations representing millions of Americans are in support. And a strong majority of the American people are in support. I have the quotes here, and I hope to put it on the 30-something Web site about what Republicans have said about the veto and even prior to the veto. 
   I think it is also important to point out, Mr. Ryan and Mrs. Tubbs Jones, I think it is important for us not just to focus on the action of the President. We do have the opportunity to override. The President, like I said last night, he can't run for reelection again because he is term limited out. So the only way the American people can stand in judgment of him is when someone calls their home and asks how they feel about how the President is running the country, and those numbers are very, very low as to whether the President is doing a good job. 
   But when you look at this issue of health care, I think there this is a gut check for many Members of Congress. There are some numbers, and I heard Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones asking Members on the floor today that voted in the affirmative for the bill: Are you going to vote with us to override the President? Out of two conversations I heard, it was ``yes.'' But I think it is important that each Member of Congress start to use their relationships with other Members of Congress, especially with the other side of the aisle. My conversation with some of my colleagues today have been, Please, I kind of like you. I think you are a nice guy. I don't know if you want to make a career decision to be with the President because that is what is going to happen. The President is talking about negotiating on children's health care when, and I am looking at a quote here, and quotes and past statements by the President, I don't think they hold any great value as to what he is going to do if it has nothing to do with Iraq. 
   He said at the Republican National Convention in 2004: ``In a new term, we will lead in an aggressive effort to enroll millions of children who are eligible but not yet signed up for government health care insurance programs. We will not allow the lack of attention or information to stand between these children and health care that they need.'' 
   Well, I can tell you, based on his veto, he is standing in the schoolhouse door as it relates to children receiving health care. I have been talking to my colleagues in the halls and saying, Listen you need to be on the side of the children. Not with the Democrats, not with some group, either liberal or conservative, moderate, you have to be on the side of the children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. They do want it. And the thing about it, they should want it and Members of Congress should want it. These are children. They don't wear $800 suits and $200 silk ties and all of the things that big-time folk wear here in Washington, D.C. 
   But I think it is important that letter that was sent to the President should be sent to Members of Congress to remind them the reason why they are up here. 
   Some Members say KENDRICK is not talking about me. He can't be talking about me.     
   Someone who might have read the Congressional Record, said, well, he's not talking about me; yes, you too. Your children, too. Your grandchild, too. So if you're within the sound of my voice and you hear what I'm saying, your neighbor's child, too. Your child will be affected by 10 million children not having health care, will be affected by the lack of health care that that child will not have if the President and the Republican minority have their way. 
   Now, I commend Democrats that voted for the bill, I commend Republicans that voted for the bill, but we should make sure that we point out the fact that there are a number of Republicans in this House that will stand or say they will stand with the President. They're saying they stand with the President. They're not saying they're going to stand with the American people. 
   I think you're 110 percent right for sharing that with Members of Congress and letting them know, and these associations should approach their Member if they voted for it or not, just to remind them that this is very, very important. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. TIM and I have a good friend by the name of Charles, and Charles was saying how excited that he was about the fact that we pointed out the folks that wanted children to be covered by health insurance. And I think it's important that even if we continue to say everything that we're saying and we say it 10 times, it's not going to hurt. It's not going to hurt the debate here. 
   Let me just back up. What the White House is doing now, Mr. Speaker, and I just want to kind of bring this out into the light, let's drag it out from out of the dark halls of Congress. What's happening right now, they're getting invitations to the White House: come sit down with the Vice President or the President or some major policy person, saying, you know, a little tea, a little coffee, some cookies. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Some of them are saying, well, yeah, I'm with you, you know, I'm all impressed, and they go in and take a picture with the President in the Oval Office and they go back home or they come back over here to the Capitol. That's what's happening very quietly. I just want to put that out because that's the way the White House has been successful in getting this kind of picture. 
   Now, I know every last Member here in this picture, and I know the conversations I've had with them one-on-one about the war in Iraq, but better yet, they're down there with the President. All I'm saying is that all of the groups, some, was it 270 and counting, are saying that we want health care for children. 
   And all of the Members, I want to the make sure I say it right, a number of Republicans in the Senate that voted for this measure, and over here in the House? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I think somewhere like 18 or 20 that we would need to override. I think that number now is somewhere maybe, you know, around 15 or 16 we have to convince them to do it. I want to drag this out and put it out into the light. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I just want to say that you have increased our stock. To have a chair of a full committee with us two days in a row and to have a cardinal to join us at the last minute, even though a member of the 30 Something Working Group here on the floor with Mr. Ryan and myself, I mean, in the light of other Members, they really may feel we have moved up in the world to have these two gentle ladies here with us but yet powerful. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, with that we would like to thank the Speaker and the Democratic leadership for allowing us to have this hour. We would like for the Members, if they want to get a copy of the letter that Chairwoman TUBBS JONES read into the Record, they can go on www.speaker.gov and also all of the groups that support and the folks, the Republican Senators, of why SCHIP should be overridden or passed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to address the House. My good friend, the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Gingrey), we have traveled together and served together. I want that chart that he has. I keep asking him for it. About how when Democrats take control, pork barrel spending is cut in half. I appreciate it. I am glad for his accuracy. 
   It is so good to serve with my colleagues up here in Washington, D.C. I am here with my good friend, Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz. Our districts neighbor each other in south Florida. We have been good friends for a long time. We are here tonight part of the 30-Something Working Group. 
   Mr. Speaker, as you know, we come to the floor once, twice, and when we can three times a week to share with Members issues we are working on here. 
   We want to make sure that all of the Members are fully aware of what is happening in Iraq. As of today, October 17, 10 a.m. report, there have been 3,824 deaths in Iraq. The total number wounded in action and returned to duty is 15,604. The total number of wounded in action not returning to duty is 12,674. 
   We want to make sure that is not only a part of the Congressional Record, but that every Member of Congress understands the sacrifice those who are in harm's way are making. And those of us who are policymakers, that we make sure that we take the appropriate steps to do away with that number continually going up on a daily basis. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want to turn it over to my colleagues that are here, but tonight I just want to take a point because the President today had a press conference. We did some good things. We gave out a Congressional Gold Medal today, and the President decided to release a press release driving over to the Capitol here. 
   It was very interesting. In his statements he said that the 110th Congress, Democratic-controlled Congress, whether it be House or Senate, they need to go to work. That is interesting because I have record-breaking information here. We have taken more rollcall votes than any other Congress in the history of the United States of America. We are working 5 days a week in many cases. We have deaths or what have you. We have to pause for that. And national holidays and religious holidays that need to be recognized because there is sensitivity towards that. 
   But I can't understand, we start talking about going to work. Let me read down the list of things we have done. The 9/11 Commission recommendations, all of them, to protect America from terrorism, passed. And the President said he wasn't going to sign it, but the American people pushed him and said they wanted to be safe, and he finally signed it. 
   The largest college aid expansion since 1944, the GI bill, saving the average American $4,400. The President said he would never sign that bill. Because of the hard work of Members that voted for that bill, and these are bipartisan votes. I want to make sure that those who are paying attention to what we are saying here on the floor, those Members and Americans, that they understand this is not a Democratic message, this is a bipartisan message on behalf of the people of this country. 
   The minimum-wage increase which raised the minimum wage for some 13 million Americans, passed and signed into law. The President said he wasn't going to sign that, but it was such a good piece of legislation. People wanted it to happen for many, many years. We said we will not allow the Members of Congress to receive a pay raise until we give the American people a pay raise. 
   Innovation agenda to promote 21st century jobs, passed and signed into law. All of this was signed into law at like 7:30 on a Friday evening as the President is leaving to go to Camp David. 
   Again, tough lobbying and ethics reforms that many of the independent reform groups are so happy that finally passed off this floor, through the Senate, and signed into law. 
   Reconstruction assistance for the gulf coast disaster hurricanes, never would have happened, Mr. Speaker, if it wasn't for the push of this Democratic Congress. Actually, I remember when they had two amendments that came to the floor, one to give assistance to the victims of Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita, and one to continue the funding for the war for 3 months, they came in two amendments, never would have happened if it wasn't for a Democratic-controlled Congress pushing it through. 
   Expansion of life-saving medical research stem cells, passed on a bipartisan vote, vetoed by the President. Okay. 
   Again, health care for 10 million children and working families, passed by a bipartisan vote. A bipartisan vote which tomorrow, and we are going to talk about that here tonight, the Senate has the votes to override the President and there are some Republicans that are saying that they are going to take that vote. We have a problem here in the House because we don't have some of our friends, and I do mean some of our friends because some of our friends on the Republican side of the aisle are going to be voting with Democrats. Not with Democrats, but just to  vote on behalf of children in the United States of America. We are falling eight or 10 short of those votes. I want the Members to be aware of that. 
   The largest veterans increase in the 77-year history of the VA passed this House and we are still waiting on it to make it through the process and hopefully the President won't veto that. 
   Landmark energy independence and global warming initiative, that is something that is very, very important. Also, we have other pieces of legislation that are out there. 
   Actually since the partisan politics started, not partisan, but some of the folks being partisan on this, 45 that we had last time of Republicans that joined Democrats on that bipartisan vote, so that's not 10, that's not 15, that's not 20, that is 45 of our Republican colleagues that, because of the Democratic leadership bringing it to the floor, knew it was a good idea and voted on behalf of their districts. 
   With that, I want to make sure, just in case someone gets confused about that issue, because we are going to talk about SCHIP. We are going to do a hard push on SCHIP because this is about children's health care, and it is very, very important. 
   I yield to Ms. Wasserman Schultz. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I would like you to just yield for a minute because, as you know, in the 30-something Working Group we always enjoy seeing our friends come by, and the majority whip came to the floor, heard we were talking about children's health care, and thought he would just stop by and share something with the Members, and I yield to him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. And the good thing about the 30-Something, we really get into a conversation about this. And behind you, you can see, I will let you explain that chart there. But I want Ms. Wasserman Schultz and I just to share a little bit. You say that everyone is saying that it is socialized medicine. That is not the case. Do you know who is saying that? The Bush administration. Do you know who else is saying that? Our friends on the Republican side that are not even thinking about health care. They are thinking about how I need to protect the GOP philosophy on Capitol Hill. Not in America. 
   Let me just read this here. CBS News poll that was taken says, and here the headline goes and you can go on, it says CBSnews.com. Don't believe me. You can go on there if you don't believe what I am telling you. This came right off of this sheet here: Do you favor or oppose expanding the children's health care plan? Eighty-one percent said I am in favor of it. I am in favor of the Democratic plan. And the headline goes: Most backed Democrats and kids health care fight. It says, those that oppose, 15 percent. 
   So, Mr. Ryan, when we look at that, we have to look at it for what it is worth. And I know Ms. Wasserman Schultz has something from the USA Today. And I will yield back, but I want to share that with you, Mr. Ryan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Altmire, I mean, factually, you said factually accurate? This whole administration is about misperception. It is about look right, we are going left. I mean, it is not about that. The good thing about it, Mr. Altmire, is that you were elected and your colleagues were elected in this last Congress that brought about that paradigm shift. And that wasn't because it was something great that an individual did; that was the fact that the American people wanted to move in a new direction. Now we are moving in that new direction. We have the same game, but the Congress is changing, and we are not going to allow that to happen. And I am glad that the Speaker is saying, listen, we are going to insure 10 million children, period, dot, and we are going to stand there. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan wants to say something, but I want Mr. Murphy to say something because he stood up and he likely had something he wanted to share. Ms. Wasserman Schultz and I are always willing to share, because we have a whole notebook full of stuff that we are just ready to take off on. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, it is good that all of us agree here that is on the floor here tonight, along with hundreds of other Members of Congress. But it only takes a very small percentage of numbers to say ``no.'' 
   And what is interesting, Mr. Ryan, when we start talking about fact versus fiction; be accurate if you are going to share something. Accuracy is not necessarily a value here in Washington, D.C. We pride ourselves, Mr. Speaker, here on the 30-Something Working Group, we go through a lot of pain and suffering and research and all of that to make sure that what we are sharing with the American people is actually fact and not fiction. If we had more fact, we would have better policymaking here in Washington, D.C. 
   The fact that the President would say, oh, well, you know, the Democratic Congress needs to go to work, when we broke records in the history of the Republic of 980 rollcall votes. And that is not just post offices. That is major policy that has passed off this floor. 
   Still saying that, what Mr. Ryan is saying, the bottom line is as we go into the last closing minutes of our time here on the floor, the bottom line is we are going to see a separation from those that are willing to lead and those that are willing to follow tomorrow.     
   There's going to be a supermajority vote to vote for children's health care to override the President of the United States. The only time he ever vetoed a piece of legislation last Congress was dealing with the stem cell research bill, and he did that. Okay. But now, every week he's threatening a veto. He's threatening a veto. 
   Mr. Ryan, over there, has a chart that shows how record oil prices under the Bush administration are continuing to climb to today's oil prices rate that is at the top, that's recordbreaking at the top. 
   Meanwhile, we're around here trying to provide health care for children. We have a war that's going on that the President is willing, you know, to say, oh, well, it's okay for us to borrow from foreign nations to continue a war in Iraq, but we're not willing to provide health care for our own children. 
   And the sad part, and Ms. Wasserman Schultz said funny and then we agreed on sad, the sad part is the fact that these are American children. I mean, I've been to Iraq. Mr. Altmire and I have been to Iraq recently, and some of the Members here, we've been. And the real issue is this, is the fact that we went into a health care facility. Iraqi children there are getting health care. I mean, you have U.S. troops that are in neighborhoods that are giving shots and evaluations. I don't have anyone in my neighborhood  giving shots and evaluations to all the children and not asking for any documentation if you have health care or not. It's almost universal. 
   And so we're sitting here, and the President's going to stand on a small ant hill saying, well, you know, I think it's just too much that we're investing, and using some sort of, you know, hocus pocus talking about social medicine. 
   Meanwhile, children are going to the CVS, Rite-Aid or whatever the case may be, families trying to cure themselves. So I just want to make sure, I want to put the pressure on my colleagues to make sure that they override. And in closing, I'm going to send it over to Ms. Wasserman Schultz. 
   Y'all know this chart. This is the first action, one of the first actions that we took as relates to the Iraq war. It had all of the requirements in there to bring our men and women home, put the pressure on the Iraqis to stand up. And the Republicans went down there and stood with the President and said we stand with the President so that the Congress will never override the President. And they may not have one of these because if they do I'm going to have my staff down there with a camera to take a picture to make sure that we have the second picture. 
   But those that stand with the President tomorrow in not allowing us to override when we have a bipartisan vote out of this House, and we have Senators that are standing up here like ORRIN HATCH, GRASSLEY, a number of other Republicans that are saying, hey, you know, Mr. President, you're wrong. But we have some House Members here that are saying, well, we're with the President. You continue to stand with the President. I would appreciate some sort of public kind of standing out with the President because the bottom line is, I believe those Members, Mr. Speaker, all due respect, they will be at home reading this process in the paper and paying attention to C-SPAN and seeing what's going on because their constituents will not allow a Member to vote against their own children and then say, I want to go back to Congress and represent you. 
   Ms. Wasserman Schultz, I'm sorry I went past 30 seconds when you asked me to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, we were very mild. Those of us from Florida were very mild when the University of Florida, and I'll take this from Ms. Wasserman Schultz because if she says it she may not be as mild as I am when a certain team in Ohio, not only in football, but basketball, found themselves, no I will not yield. So what I'm saying, this whole dancing in the end zone experience that you're having now about going on and on and on, Florida, I mean, the Marlins are nowhere in this thing, and we had nothing, we're just sitting here quiet, doing an hour with you and we're not, we're not talking sports, we're all friends. We're talking about children's health care. 
   But we understand that those victories, the people of Youngstown, Ohio, being in Niles, Ohio, and other cities around it are very represented here under your leadership, sir, and I respect that. And I'm saying there is a limit. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, we just could not sit here and not give the representation that we were sent up here to carry out. 
   But, Mr. Ryan, you know, in all seriousness to all the Members, I mean, the good thing about the 30-something Working Group, we work so hard we have to add some humor in every now and then, especially when we work a full day and it's a quarter to 10 and we're still here on the floor. 
   The bottom line is one of the real historic votes of the 110th Congress will take place tomorrow.     
   And I'm asking the Members, those that are not willing to override the President's veto of children's health care in the United States of America, and we don't have to worry about any Democrats, but need it be Republicans, I implore you to please reconsider on behalf of the children of the United States of America. 
   This is not about our children. My kids, they have health care. I am a Member of Congress, but I wasn't elected for my children to have health care. I didn't go out and give the speech, Mr. Speaker, and say ``I want you to vote for me because my children need health care and I need health care. Send me to Washington. And I am not going to vote for you to have health care, but I want my kids to have health care.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Absolutely. Absolutely. But the real issue is this: At least I have a plan that I can afford, and the average American doesn't have that. And especially for these poor families, they need it. 
   So I don't think that anyone who votes against this went to their constituents and gave the brimstone speech or whatever you want to call it saying, ``I'm going to Washington, and when we have an opportunity to insure 10 million American children that need health care, I am going to vote against it. Vote for me on Tuesday'' and walk away. That did not happen. I guarantee you it did not happen. 
   And I want those Members to pay very close attention to when they put their card in the voting machine tomorrow and they vote that they look at that red light, if they press red, and correct their vote immediately on behalf of the children who don't have health care. 
   We are given this card here. This card is to help children, to be able to help Americans have a better life, and if you vote against it, it is really going to be a sad situation for our poorer families that are here in the United States of America and those families that are financially challenged. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you. We pray and hope that they join us. 
   And I just want to thank Mr. Altmire and, you, Mr. Ryan, and Mr. Murphy and Ms. Wasserman Schultz for being here with us.  
   We will vote tomorrow. We will be on the floor continuing in the debate. 
   Mr. Altmire, I want to thank you for being very factual on the bill and sharing with the Members what is actually in the bill. A lot of folks don't take the time to find out what's actually in the bill; so I am glad you brought that perspective to the floor tonight. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, it was an honor addressing the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to address the House, and I can share with you on this day of the State of the Union we all look forward to hearing what the President/Commander in Chief has to share not only with the country but the world, and we hope that he will bring words of wisdom and unity to the House floor. This will be the President's seventh opportunity coming to the floor to share with us the needs of the Nation. And I hope that he speaks on behalf of the entire Nation. 
   As you know, the 30-Something Working Group has been coming to the floor for the last 3 years sharing with the Members about what was going on under the Capitol dome and what wasn't going on under the Capitol dome. And we come today in the spirit of bipartisanship, Mr. Speaker, and I would also like to continue to highlight bipartisanship, because that is what the American people have called for and that is what we have delivered. 
   And when I say ``we,'' I am saying a majority of the Members of the House of Representatives, and you can sprinkle in some Republican votes in achieving that. And I am glad that on a number of votes as relates to the Medicare prescription drug price negotiating, all Democrats on the floor voted for that, 24 Republicans voted for it, too. They voted with their constituents. 
   The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, just about all the Democrats on the floor voting on behalf, 216 with 37 Republicans joining us on that vote, it was 253, which is a good majority of the House voting in the affirmative. That is bipartisan. 
   The Fair Minimum Wage Act, Mr. Speaker, that passed on January 10, which was a recorded vote, there were 315 yeas in the affirmative, all Democrats on the floor at that time voted for it, 82 Republicans joined Democrats in voting on that bill together, Mr. Speaker. 
   Again, in the implementation of the 9/11 Commission recommendations, which we all know, Mr. Speaker, was a bipartisan piece of work by individuals that were appointed by the President, the leadership, and the House and Senate at that time, with two bipartisan chairmen, one Republican and the vice chair was Democrat, all Democrats on the floor voted, 231, and 68 Republicans. That brought that vote to 299. 
   I think it is important, Mr. Speaker, as we continue to move on and as we look at the student loan vote, as we look at a number of the votes that have come here to the floor, a great vote today as relates to pensions for those that step out of the line, Members of the House that step out of line and Members of the Senate, that their pensions will be on the line. Not one vote against that measure. 
   In that spirit, I know, on behalf of the Democratic side of the aisle, the Speaker, majority leader, Democratic whip, the chairman of our caucus, the vice chair of our caucus, and other elected leadership within the Democratic Caucus are looking to continue this bipartisan spirit that we have adopted here.  
   As you know, in the 109th Congress, Mr. Speaker, I used to always share with the Members that bipartisanship is only allowed if the majority allows it. I think that on some issues we will see issues where we won't be able to see eye to eye and there will be some partisan votes on this floor. That is just the reality of life here in Washington, D.C., but it should not be the rule. It should be the exception. And I want to commend all of those Members that are moving in a bipartisan spirit. 
   Now, I must say the winds of bipartisanship are here on the floor. I am sad to report that on many of those votes the Republican leadership did not vote with the majority of the U.S. House of Representatives, including Republicans that did vote on those measures. I say this to promote a bipartisan spirit here when the State of the Union, when the President comes in and gives his speech tonight; when he comes to speak to the American people in the U.S. House, the U.S. Congress, Judiciary, all branches of the military that will be represented here tonight, Cabinet officers that will be represented here tonight, hopefully deliver a message that we can move forward as a unit, as all Americans, so something we can all grasp.     
   I think it is important to move in that direction. 
   Now, on our side of many of these issues, when I say ``our side,'' I am saying the Democratic side where we have talked about six in 2006, where Republicans have joined us in those efforts because they wanted to vote for it all along but their leadership would not allow them to do that. We want to continue. We want to lead by example. We want the American people to know that we are leading on behalf of the country, not just one side versus the other. We do not want to create that kind of environment; but when it has to take place, it has to take place. 
   Tonight, Senator Webb, Virginia, will be delivering the Democratic response to the President, and I think it is important if we can see eye to eye on a policy in Iraq because right now, as you know, a number of the Senators on the other side of the Capitol dome have disagreed with the surge policy or with the escalation of troops policy that we have now that the President has stepped forward with. Many Members of the House on both sides of the aisle disagree with that policy. 
   As you know, Mr. Speaker, a number of Americans spoke not only to Democratic candidates but to Republican candidates about a solution in Iraq versus just identifying a problem and continuing to add on to the unfortunate situation of U.S. troops losing their lives in Iraq. 
   I think it is also important for us to know that for us to work in a bipartisan way the President cannot continue to say, just because I have the power to deploy troops along with my advisers that I am going to do it. I think a level of responsibility has to kick in. 
   Mr. Speaker, I was talking to a group earlier today, and I shared with them that the watch word for the 110th Congress should be ``responsibility,'' responsibility on both sides of the aisle to make sure that we can fight our way out of the record deficit that we have now and to be able to stick with our pay-as-we-go rules that we put in place; to make sure that we govern on behalf of all the American people need it be young or old, rich or poor; that we govern on behalf of Americans and not on behalf of the special interests; and to make sure that our children's children and we have safe, clean water, air to breath; and that we can provide health care. 
   Now, saying all of that, it cannot be my way or the highway. Mr. Speaker, the President has put forth a commission to look at Social Security more than two times, and at the end of all of those commissions, the President has come back and said we need to privatize Social Security. That is a my-way-or-highway approach to governing. 
   I think it is important that the President come to this floor tonight and the Congress respond in a way that we can work together, we can work together to make America better. We can work together to make sure that our troops in Iraq, hopefully more sooner than later, can be redeployed, and that we can call not only on the Iraqi Government but other countries throughout the world to take part in the security of that region. As long as we continue to have an escalation in troops without any questions asked, we are going to have problems. 
   Now, I am glad to be joined here by my good colleague and friend from the great State of Ohio, Niles, Ohio, and we have spent many an hour on the floor here talking about these issues, but I was sharing with the Speaker and with the Members the fact when the President comes here tonight that it is important that it is a message that all Americans can embrace, that we deal with the serious issues so that we can get on with the work of the American people, because shortly after he gives his speech, he is going to send his budget to Capitol Hill, and that is going to have a lot to do with the way this Congress is going to function in this first session of the 110th Congress. 
   Hopefully, we will be able to pass a budget that will work on behalf of the American people, but it cannot be a my-way-or-the-highway kind of approach that it has been in the past. That did not work well, even when his party had the majority here in the Congress. Imagine what will happen, and they do have the minority in this Congress. 
   But we are willing, Mr. Speaker, to work in a bipartisan way to make sure we can get something done. I think that is very, very important. I think that is what the American people are asking for, and I yield to my friend. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, I think it is important that we have a real discussion back and forth on this very issue. 
   We talked about the President coming to the floor and hopefully bringing about and, well, promoting bipartisanship, coming to the floor and saying there are some good things that have happened here; you know, hey recognize the historical moment of having the first female Speaker in the history of the country; but secondly, dealing with some of the major issues. 
   I understand, Mr. Speaker, in his speech on Iraq he is going to say what he says and says he sent the escalation troops. He is going to stick with it or my way or the highway. It is the wrong approach and it is going to inflame the American people and Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle. 
   Also, I would like to say, even when it comes down to the issue of the minimum wage, I know that the President has said, well, you know, I like the minimum wage but there are some things that I would like to do. That is fine, but as far as I am concerned, when it comes down to the bill, signing it, he needs to be overjoyed to sign it because that is what the American people want. It is not just Democrats. I mean, the American people want to see folks that are making $5.15 an hour to make $7.15 or greater because when they make more, the American people make more, salaried workers, because their pay is going to go up. 
   I see Mr. Ryan has something there he is going to go a little further into it. Stem cell research, folks may have issues here and there, but the bottom line is the American people have spoken in many of these Senate races and many of these House races, and they have spoken because they want their loved ones to have a better chance in beating some of the terminal cancer that is out there right now and diseases that so many Americans are suffering through and their family members are trying to fight through those issues. 
   The bipartisan 9/11 Commission, Mr. Speaker, why fight on the commas and the periods saying that, well, we believe that we are already doing that. Well, apparently you must not be doing it because the 9/11 Commission has given you Ds and Fs in those areas that you say that you are already doing it. 
   So not just because we got to the cafeteria first we get an opportunity at the only oatmeal cookie that is left. It is the fact that we have to secure America. This goes beyond I thought of this first or I thought of this second. 
   The American people said they want the full implementation of the 9/11 Commission, and that is what we gave them. The majority vote here in this House and will be a majority vote in the Senate and will have the opportunity to go to the White House and hopefully the President will implement those recommendations, it is to make America safer. It is not because it was not your original thought to do it, and I am hoping that he comes to the floor and embraces that on behalf of all of our safety. 
   I do not think that I need to advise the President in any way, but I think that on behalf of all of us, if we are going to continue the spirit that we have started and bipartisanship and having the least friction as possible, especially on issues that we should not even be debating on, the issues that I have outlined, they are not even issues that are brand-new issues. These are issues that have been talked about in committee, talked about it in commissions, even as it relates to campaigns to get to Congress. 
   The issue of the investment on Big Oil, the billions of dollars in subsidies, and now we have reversed and put them in the clean, renewable energy, that should not even be a debate.     
   It should not even be, well, I agree with it or I don't agree with it. You should agree with it, because we need it more now than ever. 
   One of the big issues now, Mr. Ryan, when it all boils down to redeployment of our troops in Iraq, all of this is a vicious circle of irresponsibility in the past, or a lack of responsibility, and making sure that we are able to carry out not only diplomatic responsibility, but legislative responsibility and oversight. 
   I think the reason we have had the escalation in troops, Mr. Ryan, is prior to the lights being illuminated or the committee rooms being illuminated to have hearings on what we should do in Iraq, how we should work in a diplomatic way in Iraq, what kind of leadership should we have in Iraq, now that is happening with the confirmation of a new general to take over the command in Iraq. 
   I think it is important, Mr. Ryan, that we move in the direction that we have been moving in, and that is in a bipartisan direction, that is in a direction that the supermajority of American people agree with. Let's get those things off the table. Let's start fine-tuning these issues of six in '06. I think some of the Republican leadership just has issues with the fact it is part of six in '06 and ``we have to be against it, because we didn't do it when we had the opportunity to do it.'' 
   I can care less about what happened in the last Congress. I do care about what is happening in this Congress, Mr. Ryan, and what is happening in the future Congresses. Because when folks woke up at 7 o'clock in the morning on a Tuesday morning and voted for representation, they voted for leadership, they voted for bipartisanship, they voted for a Washington, D.C., especially under the Capitol dome, Americans coming together, because we are all Americans, coming together on behalf of the greater good. 
   That is what they are counting on. That is what we should give them. The majority of the Members of the House should give that to them. When I am speaking of the majority members of the House, I am talking about Republicans too. I am talking about all of us coming together on their behalf. 
   So, to hear these issues tonight, it is going to be very, very important. The President has a choice. If he wants to come to the floor, Mr. Speaker, and continue to give the same speech that he has been giving in the past, it will be very, very unfortunate. But if he comes to the floor tonight talking about how he would like to work with the Democratic Congress and work with the Democratic leadership and the Republican leadership, and the same  thing over in the House and the Senate, work in a bipartisan way, if he used the words ``bipartisan Congress,'' I think he will be more successful in passing legislation that we can all come together on and that we do have an input in it, because we will have input in it, and we should not dig in and deny the American people of this great opportunity, Members, to see advancement in health care, to see some advancement in the issue of Iraq and Afghanistan at the same time, and to see some level of advancement in having clean air for our children and renewable fuel here in America, investing in the Midwest versus the Middle East. 
   I yield to my friend from Ohio. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I think it is very important, Mr. Ryan, to really talk about many of the issues that are facing the right here, right now Congress, right here, right now. Not, well, what we would like to do pie-in-the-sky. Something realistic.  
   Mr. Murphy, I can tell you that it is very important that when we look at the issue of Iraq, that we have a real discussion. The President is going in the opposite direction of the American people at this point. I mean, in November, that is what happened. The President is moving in this direction, the American people are going in the opposite direction. He could be going this way, they are going that way. I mean, it is just that simple. 
   I don't know who the advisers are in the White House or what have you, but when you have generals that have been in the field at the double digit numbers saying that we are headed in the wrong direction as it relates to the strategy that the administration has, you have Colin Powell. Goodness gracious, the Secretary of State, the former I guess two Joint Chiefs of Staff, the head of the military, to say an escalation in troops in a civil war is a wrong thing to do. 
   We have been saying in November and even now saying that the principal mission of our forces should be training of the Iraqi troops. Now, that is ``we are going to start training.'' 
   Well, we have been saying that from the beginning. That is a strategy to redeploy hopefully one day. Not ``we will work it out sometime in the near future.'' The issue of the logistics and force protection and counterterrorism activities, those are the things that we should be involved in versus patrolling the streets of Baghdad. Patrolling the streets of Mosul. That should be the Iraqi force's responsibility right now. 
   The beginning of phase, to be able to redeploy our troops, that has to happen. We have military bases, Mr. Ryan, we have been there. We have military bases that are the size of some U.S. cities in Iraq where troops can be trained, Iraqi troops can be trained, along with getting some of our allies to take part in that. 
   So for us to have what we talk about so much here on this floor, a bipartisan approach towards some of these major, major issues, we are going to have to move in that direction. 
   To try to make tax cuts permanent for the super wealthy, that is the opposite direction as it relates to being able to provide some sort of relief for the middle-class and small businesses in this country. We have already said, Mr. Murphy, that we are going to operate in a pay-as-you-go atmosphere. What does that mean? Mr. Ryan, you know how over the years we have said we want to break this down, Mr. Murphy, so that everyone can understand what we are talking about. 
   That means if you are going to pay for something, if you are going to spend money, then you have to show how you are going to pay for it. Not just saying a chicken in the pot for everyone. Well, how much does it cost? That is not important, because we will just ask our country, we will just ask Japan, China, the U.K., the Caribbean, Taiwan, Korea, Canada and Germany and OPEC nations to pay that for us and we will just owe them. We don't have to pay it any time soon, but we will owe them. We will be indebted to countries even to countries that we have been with war with in the past.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you, Mr. Ryan. 
   The real issue here is, gentlemen, even before I have an opportunity to get a copy of the President's speech, Mr. Speaker, and even before our great Sergeant at Arms stands there and says, Madam Speaker, for the first time in the history of the country, the President of the United States, even before that happens, I guarantee you, gentlemen, that this health care proposal that the President has is going to end up being to the American middle-class taxpayer, a person that wants health care, money out of this pocket, taking money out of this pocket and putting it hopefully in the other, with some coming out to pay for it. 
   There will be no real program that will benefit the middle class in achieving health care. It would have to almost be, Mr. Speaker, an atmosphere to where for a person to get a true benefit, they would probably have to go out and get a tax attorney to understand their opportunities, their lucky-ducky opportunities that we hear so much about here on Capitol Hill. 
   I think it is important, Members, that we break this thing down before we leave Washington this week to make sure the American people know exactly the direction that the administration wants this Congress to move in, because there has to be a discussion. And it has to be open-ended, Mr. Murphy. He needs to say, Listen, I have this health care initiative; I would love to have a discussion with the Congress on how we can make this possible for the American people. 
   Now, I can tell you right now, the superwealthy have an advocate in the administration in making their tax cuts permanent; I am talking about the superwealthy. I am talking about the folks who are not worried about if they are going to be able to get health care. They already have it. 
   We are talking about those 47 million Americans that are stuck right now, and the thousands of small businesses that once provided a level of health care; but let's not make it so technical so that only a few can benefit. Some of the earned income tax credits are not taken advantage of, Members, because when you are punching in and punching out every day and you have to go pick up your kids, and if you have got to take them to the doctor, you are making a career decision, that is the reason why the emergency room is so convenient because the boss person doesn't want to let that working parent or parents off to be able to take care of his health care needs. 
   So this is a huge issue. But at the same time, I think it is important, Members, that we keep in the frame here this issue of Iraq. It has to continue to surface; we have to deal with it; and the American people are counting on us to provide leadership. 
   I yield to the gentleman from Connecticut. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I think in light of bipartisanship, I know we split the hour, and I see my colleague on the Republican side is already here, in the light of bipartisanship, we will yield back our 10 minutes that we have left on our time to get off on a good note here. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (STREAMLINING OF SAFETY ACT AND ANTI-TERRORISM TECHNOLOGY PROCUREMENT PROCESSES -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, let me just say that this piece of legislation is an outstanding bipartisan piece of work. I know that it has bipartisan support, something that is going to help the private sector and be able to help us move forward in securing America. 
   I would like to thank my good friend Mr. Rogers for his outstanding work and also on the Republican side. We have had a great discussion. As you know, in the last Congress I was the ranking member on the oversight committee, and all of us that are involved in this bill have heard hours and hours of testimony on why this is important. Even going as far back as the 108th Congress in the select committee, we were hearing from members of the private sector, saying that we want to participate in protecting America, need it be bio or what have you, but we also do not want to end up losing our shirts in the process or giving away secrets. 
   So I think this legislation is going to help us move forward. I hope it has a speedy process in the Senate. I look forward to coming to the floor later on to vote on this very good piece of legislation. 
   I just wanted to come by and say, once again, this is another example on how we have and we are now working in a bipartisan way on behalf of securing America for future generations and this generation so that we can continue to move forward hand in hand. 
   I want to thank the bill's sponsor from Rhode Island for bringing this  legislation to the floor quickly, and also Mr. Thompson, the chairman of the committee, and ranking member of the committee on the Republican side for bringing this to the floor for speedy consideration.  
   I rise today in strong support of this legislation. H.R. 599, the Support for Antiterrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies or ``SAFETY'' Act would provide greater incentive to US companies that develop and produce domestic, antiterrorism technologies and would better ensure the integrity of our national security. 
   Congress enacted the SAFETY Act in 2002 to limit the liability of manufacturers of qualified, antiterrorism technologies. This was seen as an essential step to promote innovation in technology, and to ensure that our first responders received the very latest and best equipment. 
   However, the methods used by the Department of Homeland Security to implement the original legislation were markedly slow and burdensome to applicants. This created disincentive to companies to participate in the program, and negated the original intent of the legislation. 
   I raised this issue and others during a September 2006 joint hearing before the Homeland Security Subcommittees on Management, Integration, and Oversight and Emergency Preparedness, Science and Technology. In that hearing, questions were raised addressing these issues; however, little was done in the closing days of the 109th to enact sufficient change. The Department did take positive steps to alleviate some of these issues, by issuing improved application ``kits'' and approving the final rule. 
   Still more is needed, and H.R. 599 would be a significant step in that direction. Because procuring these vital technologies as they become available is imperative to national security, SAFETY Act certification must happen at the same time as production. 
   To ensure that both our companies and our first responders are protected, this bill would require the Department to formalize the coordination between its procurement office and the Office of SAFETY Act Implementation. This would stand to greatly improve the efficiency of the program and the application process. Moreover, this bill would also ensure that sufficient staff be made available for reviewing applications. Delays in certification can dissuade companies from bringing life saving technology to market for long periods of time. 
   The SAFETY Act, as it is named, is about the security of the American people. Improving this process will ensure that our Federal, State, and local authorities have the tools they need to protect the American people. 
   I urge my colleagues, to support this bipartisan measure and to further strengthen our defense from terror.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank you. It is always an honor to come before the House and the 30-Something Working Group, running some 5 or 6 years strong now, coming to the floor on behalf of the American people with fact not fiction. We know that in this day and time it is easy to be misled. And I don't know if it is something that someone means to do or doesn't mean to do, but it happens sometimes. We take great pride in not only having footnotes for what we do and what we say, but making sure that we have the facts to back up what we are sharing with the Members. 
   Every 30-Something Working Group we start off by sharing with the Members what is happening in Iraq. As of today, July 16, 2008, by 10 a.m., total casualties in Operation Iraqi Freedom is 4,121; total number wounded in action returned to duty, 16,901; and total number wounded in action not returning to duty is 3,508. 
   I think it is very important that we continue to pay close attention to that issue of what is happening right now in Iraq and what is happening in many of the American families that we cherish and celebrate and honor that are military families that are having to worry about their loved ones in harm's way. We have to keep that at the forefront. 
   As you know, over the past 2 weeks Members have been coming to the floor speaking on the issue of energy. I am happy to not only report but continue to say it wasn't until this Democratic Congress when it was elected, Mr. Speaker, and Members, to lead on behalf of the American people that once upon a time in the 108th Congress and 109th Congress, we talked about if given the opportunity to lead what we would do. 
   It is one thing in politics to talk about if you give me a chance, this is what I will do. I will go to Washington, DC, and make this or that happen. It is a good thing because we have actually moved in that direction. 
   I couldn't help but hear my colleagues who I have a great deal of respect for, but I may disagree with from time to time. I can tell you in light of me disagreeing with them, I am just so happy that I do have fact on my side and on the side of the American people because we have been trying to move this Congress and we have done so with the American people's help in electing a Democratic majority Congress. 
   But we have not been able to overcome the executive branch which is the Bush White House. I think it is also important for us to understand that this whole issue of how we got to $4.30-something gas was not engineered by anyone on the Democratic side of the aisle. I think the policies, the energy policies that were set forth by the Bush administration, the 2001 meeting which took place in Vice President Cheney's part of the White House, the working group on energy, the 108th Congress and the 109th Congress who worked very hard to, and the Congress before that, the Republican-led Congresses which worked hard to follow this policy that the Bush administration set out to please oil companies that has led us into the prices that we are paying here today. 
   I have to lay that out, Mr. Speaker, to get to what Democrats have done. I am going to do that very quickly because I think I am on the side of solutions versus argument. But for the Members to understand what the solutions should be and the direction that we should be running in at a very fast pace or run or sprint is one of fact and not fiction. 
   You would have a number of Members in this Congress believe and the American people believe that with two  oil men in the White House we would have some sort of solution as it relates to this issue of oil, but that is not the case. 
   As we continue to deal with this issue of oil only, because it seems like that is what the Republican side is talking about, it seems to be a part of the problem and not the solution. 
   If you want to resolve something, you have to start looking at doing things differently. You can't do the same thing expecting different results. When you look at oil and you look at the number of those who have given their life in Iraq, and the reason why Iraq is so important to this country is based on energy. If we had action when the Bush administration took over the executive branch and when the Republicans had the opportunity to lead, well, it was already there according to economists and others, but if they would have had the courage to stand up against Big Oil and say no, we know what you want, but the studies have shown we need to start looking toward alternative fuel, we need to start being innovative and deal with cafe standards and make sure that our vehicles get more mileage. We have to incentivize through tax incentives Detroit and other auto-making parts of America, that we want vehicles that run on less fuel. But no, that was not the argument. That was not what the Republican majority pushed towards. They kept pushing towards this kind of cake and ice cream experience with the oil industry. 
   I have nothing against the oil industry. Some neighborhoods they may say I am not mad at the oil industry, but I think it is important to note that the only way they could have gotten away with what they have gotten away with is with the help of individuals that were in those Congresses previous to this Congress, the Democratic-led Congress. The only way they got what they are celebrating now is because there is two oil men in the White House. It is well-documented. It is not just me saying that. Anyone can go on the Internet and get this information because that's where their history has been.     
   I have a couple of charts here: 8 years of Bush, two oil men in the White House, $4 a gallon gas. I mean, I just leave it up to your imagination. I am just one Member of Congress that has a theory, not a theory, but following fact. 
   What are some of the great ideas on the other side? Well, let's drill in the Arctic wildlife refuge. Let's do that. I think that's important. Yes, let's drill. That was last Congress' argument. Some have said this Congress has a solution. I am not talking fiction, I am talking fact. 
   That would only bring about 1.8 cents per gallon savings in 2025. Now that's 2025. That's not talking about right now, Members. That's not talking about how families are trying to figure out how they are going to, when they are looking at their vehicles and knowing they are no longer going to be able to afford to take their kids to extracurricular activities, in some cases not even being able to take them to school, in some cases having to walk to make it to religious events, whichever their religion may be, because they can't afford fuel. 
   Some have had to turn off certain things like cable television or had to do away with certain activities that their children were involved in or philanthropic contributions, at their own level, but it was just $10 or $50 a month to make the world better. They had to cut back on that, put it in the tank. 
   But this is what the Republicans were talking about and Democrats fought them back. I talked about the 2001 meeting that took place in the White House. It is well documented, well documented. 
   I can tell you, when I come back to the floor, I am going to bring my chart out that I used to bring, actually the letter that talked about, and the news report, from the Washington Post, it talked about the meeting that took place in 2001. 
   I know this is hard to see for many of the Members, but in 2002, that meeting started to pay off for Big Oil. Meanwhile, our Republican colleagues, who were in the majority, just stood idly by, and turned the other cheek. There was no problem with oil. There was no problem. 
   The alternative, why do we have to deal with that when we have oil? Why do we have to deal with that when we have over 143 troops that are in Iraq that's protecting the Iraqi oil, and we have our Commander in Chief holding the hand of the Saudi Arabian king. We have those relationships. 
   Meanwhile, our constituents, Members, people here in America are not celebrating what these oil companies are celebrating. Again, I have nothing against oil companies, they are doing what they do in a capital society, but they are only allowed to do this because of the Republican past Congress. Remember, I want to make sure the Members know. I'm coming to what we did in this Congress and what role you played in that solution towards bringing gas prices down, or, what I may add, energy prices. 
   In 2000, the record-breaking profits of some $30 billion; 2003, again, breaking records, $59 billion; 2004, $82 billion for the oil companies and profits; 2005, $109 billion in profits; 2006, $118 billion. It's, again, climbing, and in 2007, $23.3 billion in profits for oil companies based on the Republican-led energy initiatives. 
   Now they are in the minority, they are now saying, well, we can't get what we want on the table. They have already voted to drill in not only environmentally sensitive places, but places that the oil companies have not even started to drill in yet. We just gave out a whole bunch of leases to the oil companies. They are not even using 80-some odd percent of those leases that have been allowed, they have been allowed to drill. They haven't done it. 
   So it's almost like having a full plate of food. Imagine you at home, okay, and sitting around the table, Big Oil with food just falling off all ends of the plate, something real heavy like a big steak or something, and mashed potatoes and beans, you know, rolling all over the table, saying we need more. That's what they are saying as it relates to more leases, more drilling. We need more. Okay. 
   Imagine the individual that's going there to fill the tank with very little on their plate, because they can't afford to put food on their plate because they are too busy paying what we are looking at in these record-breaking profits for these oil companies, with very little on their plate, if anything at all. When you start talking about more drilling, more drilling, you know, it doesn't add up because you have talked about some of these issues. 
   Let me just mention something here. I am so glad that I got this because I asked for it. I couldn't happen but see the President yesterday quoted in his press conference. We started talking about issues as it relates to oil, I mean, drilling. The President says a lot, so it's kind of hard to try to deal with what he is saying. But he said that, in so many words, and I will go ahead, because it's a lot of words here that he used to describe one thing, in his remarks, he said that drilling will not deal with the oil prices tomorrow. It won't give us the relief that we're looking for. 
   That's what the President said yesterday on his press conference. Now you can go on pretty much to cnn.com, any other Web site that would have the transcript, but basically we pull these remarks from the transcript. I want to make sure that we get a chart so that people can see it, and we may want to put it on our Web site. 
   Now, on the Democratic side, we have talked about a number of initiatives. Our comprehensive strategy has been about not only incentivizing wind, solar, geothermal, hydro and American-grown biofuels, but also promote energy, like I mentioned, energy efficiency, efficient cars, buildings. The greening of the Capitol is already under way and has happened. Actually, I wrote a piece this month in the Capital File Magazine talking about what we are doing here in the Capitol to green the Capitol and save our environment and lead by example. 
   The Speaker is leading that in a very special way, making homes and appliances more energy efficient, boosting American innovation and research, reward conservation, expedite responsible American drilling and also telling Big Oil to use it or lose it. Basically, when you are looking at all the leases that are out there, all the opportunities that Big Oil has right now, but, better yet, it's almost like what we  call the Potomac two-step, because I think that's what the Republican side is doing and the White House is doing. 
   They are saying drill, drill, drill, because, guess what, that's what's been putting gas in their tank, I think, politically, because the oil companies believe that they are our friends. 
   The Democrats, they are the problem, because we are talking about alternative fuel. We are talking about conserving. We are talking about investing in the Midwest versus the Middle East. So we are disrupting, when I say we, the American people who voted for this new Congress that we celebrate now, voted for this fact-not-fiction Congress, voted for this new-direction Congress, they voted for change. Republicans are still here singing a song that these oil companies have put on a sheet and started talking about we need to drill to create jobs. 
   Well, guess what, why haven't they done it with all of the leases that are out there right now and all of the jobs that need to be created. If Big Oil, based on the profits that they have made, can turn this whole economy around and take us out of this recession that some speak of, just with the snap of their fingers, but, guess what, there is something that we call stockholders. They want their money. 
   They want those dollars to be placed. They don't want to employ people. That will have something to do with my bottom line. So when folks start coming to the floor and start talking about oh, we drill $2 gas, I look forward to that. But we are going to get there doing the same thing, doing the same thing expecting different results. 
   It's almost like going to the refrigerator, pulling out a carton of milk and saying oh, wow, it's spoiled, put it back in, maybe it will be fresh tomorrow. That doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense to keep doing the same thing. 
   Now, let me just mention here what we have done, and this is, as I understand, on the Speaker's Web site, www.speaker.gov. I think this is important because this is in the Congressional Record and also Congressional Action. Now law because of what the Democrats have done here. The farm bill which is an historic investment in affordable biofuel and also beefed up oversight on market manipulation. House bill 2419. The President's veto was overridden. 
   Now this is the President. You would think, you out there paying this gas, you are paying this big-time deal for gas. We are trying to find some competition for Saudi Arabia and other OPEC countries saying, guess what, we're not going to have to hold your hand walking down some park, our Commander in Chief. We're not going to have to go to war in the Middle East because we have to protect the oil so that we can continue to run our vehicles. We're going to come up with our own bill. We're going to come up with our own way of building energy in a clean way. 
   And to those that believe in shipping jobs overseas, we're going to create green jobs while we're at it. We are going to make sure that Americans have jobs from those that just have a GED or no high school diploma at all, to those that are architects and have postgraduate studies and who have gone on to do so many things in our society, everyone gets to work in a green society. That's what we are creating, and that's what that farm bill moved, but we had to override the President on May 21, 2008, with a vote of 316-108, and the Democrats moved in that direction. 
   I think it's important that everyone understand what's taking place here, because when folks come to the floor and talk about they have the answer, many of these individuals have not even voted for the bills that would do exactly what they are talking about doing. This is fact. That's not fiction. Thanks to the Members, we did override with some Republican support. But if it wasn't for the Democratic leadership, this would have never, never happened. 
   The veto threat, Renewable Energy and Jobs Act, H.R. 6049, passed on May 21. The Democrats, we voted 263-160. I think it's important that everyone understands that that vote came about with 228 Democrats voting in the affirmative versus 35 Republicans voting in the affirmative with 159 Republicans voting against it. 
   Another veto threat, which is Gas Price Relief for Consumers Act holding OPEC, which is, you know, the oil companies accountable for price fixing, H.R. 6074, again. We have the President that has put out a veto threat. That bill passed the House on May 20, this year, 324 voting in the affirmative, 84 Republicans voting against it, now law. This is the legislation that we put forth, never would have been law if we wouldn't have put it forth. When I say we, I'm saying the Democrats here in Congress. 
   The Strategic Petroleum Reserve Fill Suspension and Consumer Protection Act, H.R. 6022. I think it's important that you look at this. It passed May 13, 2008, some 385-25. I think it's important that we look at the fact that all Democrats voted for it, 223 voting, Republicans voted in the affirmative, 162-25. That issue, that's now law. 
   Repeal subsidies to profit-rich big oil companies, invest in renewable energy and fuel efficiency, H.R. 5351, passed February 27. It passed by a 236 vote, 182 voting against the legislation. 219 Democrats voted in the affirmative, 8 voted against. The Republicans, 17 voted for, 174 voted against. You have got to think about that, you have got to think about the whole issue, and that has been threatened by the President that he is going to veto it. 
   Now, we start talking about the profits that we use, because the real issue is that we need money to come up with alternative fuel. But, again, when it comes down to standing up to Big Oil, cricket sounds on the other side. You know, all bold when it's talking about what Democrats won't let us do. That's interesting, because I have been in Congress under Republican leadership for 4 years, and I have only been in Congress for a year and some change under the Democratic leadership and I can't believe some of the arguments that are coming out on the other side about what they can't do when they've had all of these years to do it. 
   The American people, I am not talking about Democrats, I am talking about Republicans. I am talking about independents. I am taking about first-time voters, and say, guess what, if you are going to do what you do for Big Oil, then we're going to find somebody else to represent us, and they did.     
   And the numbers within the double digits on the Republican side are now watching me here on the floor, talking to the Members, Mr. Speaker, because they made the wrong decisions because they followed leadership. We're going to talk about that in a minute right after this chart. They followed their Republican leadership that led them into a hole, and that hole is right in the La-Z-Boy at home, checking this fact-not fiction piece that I'm giving here on the floor. When you look at that vote, that's telling in itself. 
   Now law. Energy independence law and market manipulation banned and new vehicle mileage standards: H.R. 6. It was passed on December 18 of 2007. 314 votes. The Democrats voted in the affirmative. 100 voted against, Republicans. 219 Democrats voted in the affirmative. Only 4 Democrats voted against it. Republicans were 95 voting in the affirmative and 96 voting against it. That's now law. It never would have been if it weren't for a Democratic-led Congress bringing about that kind of justice on behalf of the American people. 
   The America Competes Act with energy, research and the development of clean energy and technologies: H.R. 2272. It passed into law--it is now law--on August 2, 2007. 369 Democrats voted in the affirmative. There was an overall vote of 369 to 57 Republicans who voted against it. 
   Veto threat. Crack down on gas price gouging. Like my pastor would say, I'm going to read that again. Crack down on gas price gouging: H.R. 1252. It passed on May 23 of 2007 with 284 voting in the affirmative and 141 voting against it. On the Democrat side, 228 voting in the affirmative, 1 Democrat voting against it. On the Republican side, 56 Republicans voting for it, 140 against it. 
   That's part of the solution there. I think that's something we need to look at and something that the President has said that he's going to veto. 
   Veto threat, holding OPEC accountable, oil price fixing, again, that's standing up to Big Oil. That's standing up to the Middle East, saying we're no longer going to let you lead us by the  nose. We're going to take responsibility for our own energy. It passed May 22, 2007 with 345 voting in the affirmative and 72 voting against. The President has said that he's going to veto it. 
   Now, when we start talking about who's doing what and who's not, you may see these pieces of paper here, but basically, we just covered up the names of the Republican leadership because that's just a personal policy of mine, Mr. Speaker. I just don't want to, you know, ``out'' these individuals because, I think, the record speaks for itself, but I'm still making the point, and they know who they are. 
   This is the Republican leadership from top to bottom, and I think that it's important that everyone pays attention to this. As to some of the legislation that I read off, these very individuals voted against it, and I think that's the reason we see the kind of discourse from the other side of the aisle in talking about the old direction versus the new direction. They will throw some new direction stuff in there, knowing that, you know, they really don't mean it. You know, we had the opportunity to do it, but we didn't do it, but we're going to criticize the other side and say they haven't done it. 
   We have done it. It is the body of several pieces of legislation that have not only become law but that are in the process of becoming law if there were a President in the White House who would allow it to become law. 
   You remember that old bill on Capitol Hill. This goes down to the majority leader. This goes all the way down to the whip and to the Republican Conference Chair. We have the policy Chairs and all. If you will look at when it came down to OPEC price fixing, the two top leaders on the Republican side voted against that legislation. The No. 5 leadership, No. 6 and No. 7 voted against it. 
   When you look at the price-gouging legislation that we passed, when we were looking for that leadership of coming together in a bipartisan way, the top Republican leader voted against it. The whip voted against it. The third in charge voted against it. The fifth in charge voted against it. The sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth voted against it and on down the line. This is not fiction. This is fact, okay? This is the Congressional Record. 
   Renewable energy. The first man voted against it over on the Republican side and the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth, all the way down. Now, if I'm wrong, somebody come and tell me I'm wrong. I don't think so. This is in the Congressional Record. 
   Energy security. The top voted against it. If you jump down, No. 4 voted against it as well as No. 5, No. 6, No. 7, and No. 8. 
   So, when folks come to the floor and start talking about ``we have a plan'' and ``we know the answer,'' show me the beef, like that Wendy's commercial used to go. You know, it used to say, ``Now show me the beef.'' I want to know where it is. I don't see it. 
   I've just come to the floor just to share a little bit because I'm glad that my constituents in the 17th Congressional District from South Florida federalized me to come here to provide this kind of representation and to be able to shed light on the action that has taken place. It's not over yet. We don't have everything that we need to be able to do the things that we need to do on behalf of our constituents because we still have some rules over in the other body across the hall, and we still have the issue in the White House as it relates to the two architects, if I could put it that way, of our energy plan now, who are defending that plan to the end. They have talked about they're not going to do some of the things that we feel should be done now, things that a number of people have said that would help. 
   We talked about a number of issues as they relate to our passage of legislation, but one thing I left out on that chart that I think we need to share with the Members tonight is the Drill Responsibly in Leased Lands Act, which is called the DRILL Act. It mandates annual lease sales in the Alaska National Petroleum Reserve. It also has more oil than the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, and the oil can be brought to the market more quickly. 
   It requires the Bush administration to facilitate the competition of oil pipeline infrastructure in the Reserve and to facilitate the construction of the Alaskan natural gas pipeline, and it bans the export of Alaskan oil outside of the U.S. 
   It also incorporates the ``use it or lose it'' legislation. I can tell you that it is compelling oil companies to start drilling on the 68 million acres of undeveloped Federal oil reserves which they are currently warehousing or they are losing the ability to obtain the new leases. I think that it's important that we deal with those issues sooner rather than later. 
   Before I get into another part of my talk, here is my good friend, Representative Arcuri, from the great State of New York. We have been to a number of places together. We've been to Iraq, and we've also been on some other defense-related visits. I'm so glad that he's here to share a little bit about this issue of energy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. No problem. Anytime you're ready, Mr. Arcuri. I'm no longer 30, but I'm part of the ``Something'' part. So you're always welcome in the 30-Something Working Group. And I want to thank you for bringing those facts to the floor. I think it's important the more Members we get from different parts of the country sharing what they know, what their constituents share with them when they go back home, I think it's important for the Members to hear that. The diversity of ideas makes this body great. 
   We do have some great ideas coming from the other side of the aisle, too, but it's important that we don't do an us-against-them kind of atmosphere. I believe in bipartisanship. We've had more bipartisanship votes on major pieces of legislation in the 110th Congress than we have had in the previous Congresses. I think that's what the American people are looking for, Mr. Speaker, and I think that's what the Members would like to have. 
   But in a time of crisis, the last thing that we need to do is to have the kind of dragging down of efforts that we're trying to carry out, of saying, Well, the Democrats won't allow us to do this; they will not allow us to do that. If it's a body of a piece of legislation, just because one of your Members doesn't need that legislation doesn't mean that it's bad legislation. 
   We're in the majority just like the Republicans were in the majority once upon a time. And we're leading on behalf of the American people. A number of the votes that we've taken on energy, we celebrate a number of Republican votes being with us on those votes. That's the reason some of them become law. That's the reason why we are able to override the President. 
   So we cannot defend the actions of the President when he's wrong, and I commend some of my colleagues on the other side of being a part of that, but there are a number in double digits, and sometimes, you know, into the hundreds that defend the President to protect the White House. We're not up here to protect the White House. If it's a Democrat or Republican there, we weren't sent up here to say, ``Oh, we're here to protect the White House.'' We're here to protect the American people. So I think that's important. 
   I want to mention a few things of what we've done as Democrats. 
   I'm going to read, Mr. Speaker, from the 2008 letter on July 8 that the Speaker sent the President about the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which we call the SPR, signed bipartisan legislation into law that I talked about earlier to urge the President to release some of the oil, that refined fuel, from the Strategic Oil Reserve. Now this is not the first time. This is not something that the Speaker said, Oh, let's just do this because of the first time that we would have ever done it in the country. That's not the case. Desert Shield, Desert Storm drawdown by George W. Bush I, withdraw from the Strategic Oil Reserve on January 17, 1991. That brought gas prices down. 
   Also, we started looking at President Bill Clinton in 2000, released 30 million barrels from the Strategic Oil Reserve, and I will talk about what it did to gas prices. It happened then. 
   And in 2005, this President, President Bush, after Hurricane Katrina drew down, offered some 30 million gallons out of there which brought prices down. I think that it's important that everyone understands that. 
   The President can make a decision that can bring gas prices down now. Will it be forever? No, it will not be forever. Is the Reserve at 97 percent full? Yes, it is. Authorities said that it should be at 85 percent. But we're at 97 percent. 
   What's happening right now, probably not to the Members of this Chamber because we're paid beyond what the average Americans would be paid, over some $160,000, and a lot of our travel is per diem travel as we move around our districts, reimbursement for gas. The Members here are probably not affected. But for those individuals who don't have per diem reimbursement, for those individuals who know what it means to punch in every day and punch out every day, for those individuals that are trying to make it from point A to point B, who have a family member with a health care crisis and have to make the decision whether you're going to make that hour-long trip or not based on the price of gas, being able to release fuel from the Strategic Oil Reserve would be the right thing to do. 
   What happens? We're talking fact, not fiction. Using the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, it brings down prices of oil. In 1991, did I mention earlier? It brought it down 33.4 percent. In 2000, it brought it down 18.7 percent. In 2005, it brought it down 9.1 percent. And it  would even bring it down even more if we were to do it now. 
   I say all of that, Mr. Speaker and Members, that as we start looking at alternative fuel, as we start looking at what Big Oil should be doing versus trying to say this is the last day of school, let's get more leases and push this kind of drill thing as though that's the answer--because if that was the answer, we wouldn't be at over $4 a gallon that individuals are paying for gas. If you are fortune enough to have a Pontiac Grand Prix, it costs $62.74 for you to fill it up, leave alone someone that may have a Honda Accord. An Accord, it costs $68.26. If you happen to have a Chevy Impala, lucky enough to have one, $62.73 and $2,798 a year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (THE 30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - April 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to address the House. And it is always good to definitely come down to the floor and not only have a good discussion with our colleagues on the other side of the aisle but also all general Members of the Congress. 
   And I must say that, as you know, those of us that are members of the 30-Something Working Group come to the floor with fact and not fiction about what is happening in this country. 
   I had the opportunity, Mr. Speaker, to join the Commandant of the Marine Corps tonight at his residence as we had a send-off dinner for the 15th Command Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps, the highest enlisted Marine. And I know, sir, that you would have loved to have been there. It was a joyous occasion, and we definitely commend those men and women that are in harm's way, and that even those that are stateside are prepared to do what they need to do on behalf of this great country of ours. 
   Mr. Speaker, there was some debate earlier today about the legislative action to put forth conferees on the emergency defense supplemental bill, the emergency bill, to make sure that we are able to meet the needs of our men and women in harm's way and also other emergencies in the country. And I think it is very important for the first time in the history of this war, as far as I am concerned, or in this whole war, that we have had an opportunity to have a discussion. 
   There was great debate going back and forth from the Democratic side to the Republican side and arguments with some folks saying within this Chamber, well, why do we have to have language in the bill that may tie the President's hands? 
   Well, I must say that in this bill, in this emergency supplemental defense bill, there is nothing tying the President's hands. The President is still commander in chief. The Congress still respects his authority. And I think it is important for everyone to understand that in this emergency supplemental bill, defense emergency supplemental bill, that it is important that Members understand that in this bill the requirements that are there are already requirements that are adopted by the Department of Defense as it relates to the time that National Guard and reservists and active duty Marines, sailors, airmen, seamen and -women, Coast Guard, you name it, are supposed to be in-state with their families or in-country with their families versus deployed. That is one thing. 
   The second thing is to make sure that they have the necessary equipment and resources that they need. Mr. Murtha speaks constantly about being in a Stryker Brigade and what it takes in a Stryker. The driver, the commander, the gunner, others, you have to be trained in those positions, not just, hey, you come over here, we need you in that vehicle now. The kind of equipment that protects and saves lives is very, very important. And our work is not done; we are still having men and women in theater. When I say ``in theater,'' I just want to break it down and make sure everyone understands those that are in Iraq and Afghanistan still dying.     
   Last week, there was a great debate about other news issues that were out there; one here in the United States, major news story, and one in the Bahamas, major news story. Meanwhile, back here at the ranch and in Iraq, we had four Marines die on that very day. It was just a blip, and then back to the stories of conversation of that day or of that week. And being inoculated to the fact that we are losing those that volunteer to protect this country and serve this country is something that we cannot get used to and something that we cannot tolerate. 
   And so having conferees to even have a good discussion, a bipartisan discussion on what we should send to the President representing both sides of this Chamber, and the Senate doing the same thing that we have taken action today to do I think is good for the country. It is not good for Democrats, it is not in place for Republicans, it is good for the country and those that we are sending these dollars towards. 
   In the middle of that dinner, I left to come back to vote, to make sure that we are able to give the conferees instructions that the majority of the House wish to have given them. And not only the commandant, but Command Sergeant Major Estrada said, Sir, we don't want to stop you from doing what you need to do because our men and women need it. And I was glad to be able to cast a vote in the affirmative. 
   I think as we begin to look at the politics of the funding of the war and the politics of the discussion, I think we have to remember first we are Americans. We are both members of the Armed Services Committee. There are Members who are not on the Armed Services Committee, but on other defense-related committees and Homeland Security committees. We know that bipartisanship has to be paramount in those committees. 
   Mr. Speaker, I said in the last Congress, I will digress here for a moment, I said in the 109th Congress that bipartisanship can only be allowed when the majority allows it. And I think under the leadership that we have now and the votes that we have taken, Mr. Speaker, on major issues, it allows bipartisanship. That is not just what I am saying; that's what I know because the Congressional Record reflects that history or that track record, one may say, of how Republicans and Democrats have voted in a bipartisan way with the Democratic leadership allowing those bills to come to the floor, implementing all of the recommendations of 9/11 bill, raising the minimum wage, making sure that we deal with the issues of stem cell research, and also making sure that there are more affordable drugs for seniors, prescription drugs, and cutting student loans, bipartisan vote, creating long-term energy initiatives, bipartisan votes, Mr. Speaker. 
   So I am not down here talking about what may happen. I heard some of my colleagues on the other side talking about tax increases and everything. You know, that is fiction. I mean, with all due respect, that's fiction. What I do know, Mr. Speaker, because the only thing that the American people, the only thing that really works in my House is the record. And this is before the break, and this is not even now. As a matter of fact, this was through 3/26/2007. Even talking about the votes that we have taken here in Congress, the kind of votes that we have put forth, Mr. Speaker, we had to pass and we had to finish the work of the Republicans in the 109th Congress. 
   They didn't even pass all of the appropriations bills. We had to pass a continuing resolution to make sure that the government doesn't shut down, to say that we will put aside Member projects and priorities back home. And that is very important to all of us because why are we here? We are here to represent our individual districts, but we put America first. And we said we will pass a continuing resolution. As a matter of fact, while we're at it, we will put $3.2-plus billion in for veterans health care into the system. And guess what? The Walter Reed story broke 2 weeks after that. 
   I am so happy that the leadership was taken not only by our Appropriations Committee chairman, but by the leadership of this House. And we did it, and it was natural. And it wasn't political; it wasn't a reaction to something. It was the fact that we knew there was a major void there and we needed to correct it after amendment and amendment and the minority and the Republican Congress in last Congress. 
   So when I hear Members come to the floor and kind of say what sounds good to the American people, I just like to come with the facts, and the facts are this: as of 3/29 of this year, roll call votes, if you look at the 107th Congress. And Mr. Speaker, I want to break this down, when we say 107th Congress, that means 2 years of Congress; 108th Congress, 2 years of Congress. This is something that we call it the ``do-nothing Congress'' because many media outlets called it that because we spent more time doing nothing than here representing the American people. 
   At that time, as of 3/29 of 2007, at that time 2 years ago, there were only 90 roll call votes. Under the ``new direction Congress,'' which is the 110th Congress, there has already been 189 roll call votes. This is when we are here to  work, when we are here to have committee meetings, when we are here to hear from the experts, when we are here to hear exactly what America has to share with us. 
   One last point, and then I want to address one more issue, Mr. Speaker. 
   I think it is important, when we started talking about the budget, we need to take that very seriously because there has been a lot going on in the last 12 years and a lot going on since President Bush has taken the White House and had a ``rubber stamp Congress,'' and those that said, well, you write it, we will pass it, without any questions and very few hearings. And now, Mr. Speaker, here in Washington, DC, we are having a lot of hearings, and it is benefiting the American people. It is not benefiting the Republican minority or benefiting the Democratic majority. It is benefiting this institution which we call the U.S. House of Representatives. 
   And I think it is very, very important that we allow Americans' dreams to come true. And many of their dreams are around good government, many of their dreams are around accountability, and many of their dreams are around making sure that the people they send to Washington, DC are watching out for their tax dollars and their investment. 
   I had a constituent visit me today, as a matter of fact, they were young constituents, and I had them in the gallery. They weren't even of the age of 10 yet, but they were happy to see their Congressman. And I was happy to take time. I canceled a couple of meetings and I took the personal time to make sure that those young Americans understood what this institution was all about. And they really appreciated it. They asked a lot of great questions, some that I told them I had to get back to them on. But being a father myself of young children, I know that children have some of the best minds that we have and we have to protect them. But they were asking serious questions not only about the war in Iraq, but about education and about the environment. And I think that is the reason why we have to put in the best service possible. 
   But let me just share something, since I am talking about children. I heard our colleague a few moments ago talking about the budget. And I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, if I could talk about the budget 23 hours of a 24-hour day, I would, because it needs to be talked about. And something needs to happen to it in the affirmative on behalf of the American people, and something has happened. It has happened in a way that I will assure you that those that run around and say, well, you know, your taxes are going up. Your taxes are not going up. I mean, I am going to tell you that right now. The bottom line is that we have accountability in this budget; we are going to work to take this deficit down. 
   And let me just talk about what is happening here. The interest payments on the debt, and this is 2008 budget, when we look at what we pay down on the debt, now you have to remember, 12 years of Republican control here in this House, 12 years of borrow-as-we-go, Mr. Speaker. And I think it is important that the Members understand, borrow-as-we-go, not pay-as-we-go, what we passed here on this floor in the majority with some Members of the Republican side, because I do say some of my colleagues on the Republican side first do understand that they represent their constituents, that someone woke up early Tuesday morning at about 7 a.m. to go cast a vote for representation, not casting a vote to be loyal to the Republican conference, and on this side, Democratic 
   conference or what have you. But let's just make sure that we represent the people that we were sent up here to represent. 
   Let's just talk here for a minute what we pay on the interest rate on the debt. And this is in the billions. This is what we pay on the debt. That is a little bit over $200 billion. And I just want to point this out, Mr. Speaker, here in this light blue box here is education. You would assume this would be education. No, this is education. We actually have to pay down more on the debt because of the out-of-control debt. And we had surpluses as far as the eye can see after the Clinton administration, after the Democratic Congress, without one Republican vote, balanced the budget, and everyone made money and everyone had money just about. Welfare reform took place. States had dollars to be able to invest in areas, and some areas were able to give tax cuts to the American people in their State. 
   But, no, after that we decided, well, the majority, the Republican majority, decided to borrow all they could. And now they are upset because they can't borrow anymore. But this is what we are investing, well under $100 billion. Veterans, right there, below education, that is in the green. That is what we are investing in veterans health care. Not only health care, but veterans period as it relates to their benefits. 
   Homeland Security, down there in the purple, we are talking about protecting the homeland. That is what is invested in the homeland. 
   So you really have to look at this for what it's worth. And all of this is verified with third-party validators when we look at these numbers. 
   Mr. Speaker, where is the money coming from? Well, that is another good question. These are the dollars of what has happened under the amount of foreign-held debt, more than doubled under the Bush administration. Look at the numbers: here is 2001, 2002, 2003. Keep going. We are just borrowing money, foreign nations. We never owed this in the history of the Republic. I am not saying, well, this administration did it or that administration. In the history of the Republic since we have been a country, this has never happened. 
   And these numbers are in the billions. Someone may look at this and say, well, 1, 849, that's not bad for foreign debt. No. Why don't you try in the billions. And in 2005, up again. In 2006, up again. Foreign nations giving this country money to pay down on irresponsible spending, not worrying about it, but putting it on a high interest credit card. 
   This is my last chart on the debt. And I think, Mr. Speaker, this comes down to what I was talking about earlier when I said in the Democratic Congress without one Republican vote, and the Clinton administration, what took place. This surplus declined by $8.4 trillion under the President's policies. And we had a surplus of $5.6 trillion, and now we are under $2.8 trillion under the Republican policy. 
   So when we have Members come, and I encourage Members to come to the floor. I always say, Mr. Speaker, on both sides of the aisle that it is important that we have accurate information when we come to the floor. Take the time out and reflect, take a look at the Congressional Record, ask staff to pull together numbers and give you third-party validators. I think that's so very, very important. 
   This other chart makes it even clearer, Mr. Speaker. We love charts. I mean, the people that are in the chart business, I know they are happy because we love charts. But we had to break this down because we had to communicate with the Members. I don't want Members going back to their district saying, well, Ms. Johnson, if Ms. Johnson was to ask a Member of Congress, either he or she, well, why did you vote against such a thing that would decrease the debt that we have and no longer allow us to continue to borrow money? Why did you vote against something like that? Why would you vote against the emergency supplemental to send money to the troops? Why would you do these things? 
   I just want to make sure Members understand. I always share with Members, don't worry about what someone in this Chamber may say about your vote. You need to worry about what the people in your district will say about your vote when it comes down to these very, very important issues.     
   This even goes further, Mr. Speaker, and it really highlights the countries that we are borrowing this money from. Japan at the lead of the pack, this is in the billions. $644.3 billion. China. Think about it. China, $349.6 billion. China. Red China. 
   Now, what is going to happen when we get off a plane in China and start talking to the Chinese government about what they are doing to their currency, how they are using their currency against U.S. companies to be able to devalue their products so that they can sell it for a cheaper price and take away American jobs. And we go there with a great case. Meanwhile, while we are talking, I am pretty sure  the Chinese government will be looking at the U.S. Government, including the President of the United States, and say, wait a minute, you owe me money. You are going to get off the plane and start telling me what to do? We are lending money to you. We are giving you money. We are giving you money because you mismanaged. 
   I am smiling while I am saying it, but is a sad testimony to the management of this country, and I think it is very, very important if we say we are patriots, we have to make sure those children, and I was walking around this Capitol today, can have their chest out even further out than I have my chest out being a Member of Congress and being in this country, without having other countries being able to say we own a piece of the American apple pie. 
   We want to make sure that everyone feels good about what is happening here. But I can tell you right now, we must, not ``we should'' or ``we need to do,'' we must reverse this chart. We must no longer allow countries, and I am just talking about China, Taiwan, OPEC countries. Who are OPEC countries? They are countries that we have conflicts in right now. Iraq is an OPEC country. We have other countries that are of concern to this country that are OPEC countries. 
   I filled up my truck just the other day, $3.07 here in Washington, DC, leave alone other parts of the country. I hate to start getting e-mails about, that was cheap, Congressman. 
   So you have to think about these issues. We have only been here, we haven't even had 6 months to be able to manage this government, to be able to say let's have the discourse, to be able to say, well, it is important, Members, that we owe the American people the opportunity for a debate. 
   This is the first time that the President has actually had to negotiate. And we live in a democracy. Some people forgot. 
   Wait a minute. What do you mean they are sitting down at the White House to talk about the emergency supplemental? That just happened. What is the discussion? Then you have some Members coming down saying, how dare you disagree with the President? 
   The last time I checked, I was emancipated long ago, and I think it is important when George Washington's face at the top of the Rotunda, as his image looks down to the bottom of the Rotunda where you have a white dot here which is the center of this democracy, Washington, DC, we have to remember there are individuals that died, individuals that are in wheelchairs, that have allowed us to have the kind of platform to be able to have the discussion with the President of the United States and other Members of Congress about emergency supplementals, especially when we are in the fifth year of a conflict with over $500 billion of U.S. taxpayer money invested. 
   I have mayors coming to me and saying, Congressman, this is what I need in my district. Meanwhile, we are sitting here looking at discretionary spending, saying it is not there. We have two wars going on, and the President doesn't want us to ask any questions. Meanwhile, I have cities that have to have an office of accountability to respond to every Federal grant that they get. They have to check off more than the folks in Baghdad have to check off. Something is wrong. 
   So when we look at these issues, that is the reason why we are on the floor at this time of night, not only sharing with the Members, but also sharing with the American people. Regardless of your party affiliation, you must be concerned and focus on what is happening here in Washington, DC. 
   Yes, we are all tired, and, yes, we all have other things to do. But while we have this issue of accountability, making sure that we move in a new direction, like the American people have said, I think it is very, very important. 
   So I came down to the floor, Mr. Speaker, just for a moment, just to share with the Members that you have to pay very, very close attention to the debate and what is taking place. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the leadership for allowing me to have the opportunity to come to the floor. As you know, we always come to the floor, week after week, to share good information with the Members and the American people. It was a pleasure addressing the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (COMMEMORATING THE COURAGE OF THE HAITIAN SOLDIERS THAT FOUGHT FOR AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE IN THE ``SIEGE OF SAVANNAH'' -- (House of Representatives - February 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleagues for the very kind words they have given about this great piece of legislation, this resolution. 
   I think it is very, very important, Mr. Speaker, that we come together as a country and celebrate the contributions of other countries and the roles that they played in assisting us not only with our independence but making it concrete. 
   Mr. Speaker, as we look at House Resolution 909, I want to give my sincere thanks to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for bringing this resolution to the floor, and especially shed light on Chairman Lantos for his forward-leaning and making sure that this resolution made it through the process. And he will be forever missed here in this body. And hopefully his memory will continue on, not only on the committee, but here in Congress. 
   I think it is also important that we pause to not only thank staff but also thank Haitian Americans throughout this country that have fought very hard on behalf of this country, not only in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other theaters, but have contributed in many other areas. And that is where this bill came about. 
   The Haitian American Historical Society in Miami, Florida, moved forth with a monument in Savannah of the great battle, and I had an opportunity to go there recently. And there are a number of Haitians and those that care about the well-being of Haiti that wanted to make sure that the contributions of these soldiers were recognized in a way that will be able to allow not only this generation but future generations to understand Haiti's contributions. 
   When you start talking about 500 freed Haitian slaves traveling to Savannah, Georgia, to be a part of a multinational force to fight on behalf of this country against the Brits at that particular time, and to be in the same city where you had people who look like me that were enslaved, and traveling to Savannah is a very moving experience for every American, because so many battles have taken place there and it is such a historical and beautiful city that you can't help but pause to think about the courage. 
   So for us to be on the floor, Mr. Speaker and Members, to not only talk but to pass, hopefully, this resolution will be the first time in the history of the Republic that we have actually said thank you to Haiti, that we have said thank you to the families of the 300 to 500 troops that actually traveled to Savannah to fight on our behalf. I don't believe it is too late, but I think that it is very appropriate for us to be on the floor and allow the Members to show their appreciation for their contributions.  
   As we celebrate not only the contributions of these soldiers but we also shed light with our Members and Americans about the contributions that Haitians have made, I think, as we look at this debate and we look at what we are doing for Haiti right now, we must bring Americans up to speed on the history. The fact that these freed slaves came to Savannah and fought, and the fact that Haiti was one of the first countries to denounce slavery and to fight for their own independence, to fight Napoleon that pushed him to carry out the Louisiana Purchase with the United States of America, these Haitian fighters traveled throughout the Western Hemisphere and played a very strong role in allowing the United States to be who we are. 
   So when we start talking about assistance for Haiti, it is not like it is a one-way street; it is a two-way street. And I am proud to represent a constituency where we have more Haitians than anywhere else in the United States of America, but Haitians throughout the diaspora, this will be a very proud day for them; and I believe it will be a very proud day for them when we vote in the affirmative. 
   When we look at the contributions of Mr. Henry Christopher who fought in the American Revolutionary War, to use his experience from the first free government in the Western Hemisphere, and when we look at what the Haitian Americans Historical Society has spent a number of years to be able to not only bring the Haitian American history to the Congress but to also bring to everyday Americans, I think it is very, very important, Mr. Speaker, that Members share with their constituency the contribution of these great men, and to be able to make sure that we share the history of all communities that have come to this country to make us strong. 
   Once again, I want to thank the committee, and I want to also thank the staff that has worked very hard on it. I know that we have other Members that want to speak in affirming the passage of this legislation. But I am personally moved because I represent a number of individuals that, when we look at immigration policy, when we look at aid to Haiti, when we look at our interventions when coups have taken place in Haiti, as recent as the 82nd Airborne, when we look at those in the State Department that serve within the Foreign Service and the conditions that they have to work under, when we also look at the Peace Corps and other organizations like it, religious institutions, a number of NGOs, that we call nongovernmental organizations, and what they do and where they live in the rural parts of Haiti, providing not only education and food; when we look at their contributions and we look at the conditions they have to work under now as Haiti struggles with natural disasters and struggles with hard economic times, this legislation will help enshrine not only the contributions of Haitians towards the United States, but also Americans returning not only the favor but the goodwill back to the great country of Haiti. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, I urge the Members to vote in the affirmative on House Resolution 909.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to come to the floor. Mr. Ryan and I have spent a long time, Mr. Speaker, when it was just Mr. Ryan and I on the floor. This goes back to the 108th Congress and a little of the 109th Congress, and I am so glad we are having the opportunity to come to the floor to talk about not only the budget but what we were able to do last week, last Friday, moving in a new direction as it relates to the emergency supplemental. 
   Mr. Speaker, as you know, the 30-Something Working Group comes to the floor to not only share facts but to also do away with the fiction that many of the Members on the other side of the aisle come to the floor many times sharing information that I guess someone gave them some information and said, go on the floor and say this, or what have you.     
   I can't help but watch some of this debate on the floor and question where some of the information comes from. 
   The good thing about the 30-something Working Group, we actually have third-party validators for information that we share here on the floor. We want to make sure that every Member is able to make a sound decision and that the American people are able to get great information from what we share here on the floor. 
   As you know, every time we come to the floor, we talk about a number of issues. But tonight, again we are going to talk about the budget. We are also going to talk about the ongoing issue of Iraq and the courageous step we took just last week, and the Senate has taken a step in that direction also in accountability measures within the emergency supplemental. 
   Mr. Ryan, I don't know if you had an opportunity to see the President's press conference today, but it was quite interesting. It was like he was trying to sell something to the American people. He was speaking to the Cattlemen's Association, and he took that opportunity not to talk about beef, but to talk about what the Congress is doing in the area of making sure that we bring about accountability. 
   He was saying he is going to veto what we actually passed. What he is trying to do, and there is a word on the street that is used, flipping the script. He is trying to flip the script and trying to fake the American people out in saying that the Democratic Congress is standing in the schoolhouse door of the funding getting to our troops. 
   Mr. Speaker, I beg to differ and I think we have prima facie evidence here to show that the emergency supplemental, everything in the emergency supplemental is a true emergency, making sure that we fund our troops beyond what the President has called for, making sure that we stand up on behalf of our veterans, an unprecedented commitment to Veterans Affairs and to the VA in the history of this country. 
   Because we already had a system that needed work and needed funding, this Congress stepped forth and put forth, the 110th Congress, the Democratic controlled Congress stepped forward and made sure we did what we needed to do for the veterans, and we are just getting started. 
   At the same time, Mr. Ryan, we have to look at the issue of Hurricane Katrina. The President said there is other funding in there. We are doing things in the emergency supplemental for the people on the gulf coast that have been waiting on the President. They don't want lip service, they want action. If the President wants to veto that, that's on him. But I guarantee you that the American people will see through what our President is saying as it relates to and as he continues to explain how he is going to veto an emergency supplemental. 
   He is saying if the money runs out, and it is on the back of the U.S. Congress. Well, I can tell you this: The American people are on the side of the U.S. Congress. They have asked us to lead, and we are leading. They didn't ask us to balk at the first threat that the President makes. Or I am going to veto. Well, okay, that is something that you are going to have to live with. That is something you will have to explain. But we are going to continue to do what we need to do here in providing the kind of leadership necessary. 
   America said in November they want to move in a direction. They said they want accountability. They no longer want a rubber stamp. They want a do-something Congress and not a do-nothing Congress. We will talk about that tonight. 
   Mr. Ryan, I am so glad you are here as we continue to share this information with the Members so they can make an accurate decision tomorrow when we vote on the budget, on our priorities, making sure that we give every child in the United States health care, and making sure that we move in the direction that the U.S. mayors have asked us to move in, making sure that we move in the direction that governors have asked us to move in, and giving the necessary dollars to homeland security to protect the homeland. 
   We are going to make sure that the Members know exactly what they are voting on so when we go on a 2-week break, Mr. Speaker, Members can't go home and say, I didn't really understand what was in the budget. 
   I yield to Mr. Ryan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, they don't say 10 percent match for the special interests. When it comes down to big oil and some other big guys and gals here in this town, Mr. Speaker, they don't say you have to match us halfway. They say just, we will give you what you need. As a matter of fact, we will give you technical assistance to be able to take the U.S. taxpayer dollar and do what you want. And guess what, we will not even look. We will cover our eyes. We won't even have hearings. 
   Get my hearing chart, Mr. Ryan. I want to get down to the nitty-gritty here. 
   Mr. Speaker, we come to the floor 10 minutes past 10, 12 minutes past 10, and there are some things that we could be doing, but this is serious business. 
   We come with the facts. These numbers are from the Clerk of the House of Representatives. It is not from the DNC, and it is not from my cousin back in Miami that said hey, this looks good, maybe you want to take that to the floor and talk about it. This comes from the Clerk's Office. I actually like the Clerk's Office. These are the facts. The 107th Congress, 108th Congress, this is the 109th Congress that many media outlets have called the do-nothing Congress. 
   At this point in March of 2005, compared to March of 2007, the new Democratic Congress, the new direction Democratic Congress, the Congress only had 90 roll call votes. We have already had 189 roll call votes and counting for this month. 
   When you look at suspension bills that are coming over from the Senate what have you, kind of agreed upon, 26 votes that took place by this time; 72 we have done here in this new direction Congress, Mr. Speaker. 
   When you look at bills passed under a rule, 11 votes by this time in the last Republican-controlled Congress; 24 in this Congress. 
   We are here to do business. Days in session, 26 days in the Republican-controlled Congress; 48 days under this new direction Congress, Democratic-controlled Congress. 
   We bring these facts to the floor to make sure that not only Members, but the American people understand we are here to carry out the business of the American people. Mr. Ryan has some numbers when it comes down to accountability on Iraq because some Members would lead you to believe, a small number, would lead other Members to believe that there was some backroom decision that was made about accountability in Iraq, and all of the things that we are learning about Iraq, all of the accountability measures that we come up with as it relates to Iraq and policing the U.S. taxpayer dollars and all of the protection measures that we have in for the troops and men and women in uniform, they just think it happens in some backroom here in the capitol. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. One last point before we recognize Ms. Jackson-Lee because I know we want to get to our next discussion, get into the budget. 
   Mr. Speaker, to hear the President say even the word ``veto'' is something we have never heard since he has been President of the United States. He has never vetoed anything. Spending out of control, foreign debt, record numbers, passing tax cuts for the superwealthy and for the special interests, President never said a mumbling word. Cricket sounds of special interest subsidies and tax breaks, rolling through this floor, Members held hostage here on the floor, voting for special interest legislation for hours upon hours, the board is left open, not a mumbling word out of the President, not a mumbling word. 
   And now legislation happens to pass that he no longer has his rubber stamp Congress, he no longer has a Speaker who says, hey, this is the way I want it or no longer has President, this is the way we want to do it over in the Senate, so shall it be written, so shall it be done, his original thoughts are not followed through here in the Congress. Since that no longer exists, now all of the sudden, the President wants to get animated when it comes down to I am going to veto what they send and they are blocking money. 
   We are not blocking money for the troops. Matter of fact, we are giving them more than what he asked for. We are dealing with the issue of the VA. We are dealing with the issue of the crisis that we have here in the United States of America. It is an emergency. The children do not have health care. This is not an emergency for Iraqi children. It is an emergency for kids in Alabama. It is an emergency for the kids in Georgia, and it is an emergency for the kids in the Midwest and in Florida. 
   This chart here, and I am going to leave it alone and I am going to recognize Ms. Jackson-Lee, I have over 12 percent of uninsured. This is my State here in Florida. Over 12 percent of the children in the State of Florida, more than 12 percent are uninsured. That is my State. Texas, hello, President of the United States, he has a house there. It is where the West White House is. Over 12 percent of the children in that State do not have health insurance. This is an emergency to the American families. This is an emergency here in this country. It cannot be Iraq, Iraq, Iraq, and that other issue, Iraq. 
   We have to care about our own country, and if we cannot put that in an emergency supplemental without the President threatening a veto, if he vetoes that bill he is denying U.S. children, need it be Republican, Democrat, Independent, concerned citizen thinking about voting in the next election, yes, your children, too; yes your State, too; yes, your community, too, will be without health insurance because the last Congress decided not to do it. They decided not to do it, and I think it is important when you look at this, as we move into the budget, if we were to follow what the President wants to do as it relates to vetoing this emergency supplemental, $2 billion for what we call the State insurance plan for children. In the budget resolution that we have, $50 billion to make sure that we cover the costs of that as we look in the projection as the years go out. 
   So I am glad that Mr. Ryan is bringing these issues up, and as we now segue into the budget, the next thing you know, Mr. Speaker, I guess when we pass this budget tomorrow, we will probably end up being a bipartisan vote just like the emergency supplemental was a bipartisan vote in the House and Senate, that the President will probably have a press conference tomorrow and say I am going to veto the budget, too. So, if he now believes in vetoes, after 6 years of being President of these United States, out-of-control spending, record borrowing from foreign Nations, and now there are accountability measures in the budget and in the emergency supplemental, I do not even want to tell the President to have at it because, as an American, I am going to do everything I have to do to stop him from doing it. 
   I yield to Ms. Jackson-Lee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Ryan, it is very good, interesting, because I have a lot of veterans in my district. As a matter of fact, I was just talking to a group of veterans yesterday that came to this capital. We had an opportunity to talk. You know, veterans, why are you giving the President a hard time about funding, the President loves us. The President loves veterans. We all do. Who doesn't? Who is running around here saying I don't like veterans? No one. 
   But it is not what you say, it is what you do. 
   Mr. Ryan, I think you pointed it out. I just want to share this information and the sources from the House budget committee, and also from the Office of Management and Budget, and the Congressional Budget Office, and this is from the president's budget office and the Congressional Budget Office, and it is from the House Budget Committee. So you have three, third party validators to these numbers. 
   As we look at the President's budget as he proposed for the United States of America, when you look at the veterans, the Democrat budget is $32 billion above what the President's budget over the next 5 years. You can see the numbers going across. But let's just get all the way over to 2010. The President's budget is $39.7 billion. We have $48.3 billion. 
   All right, what do these numbers mean? It means shorter waits at VA hospitals. It means better care for our veterans. It means that we will have a system set up for when these men and women come home, and those that are in the system now. Doctors will be able to receive the kind of training they need. Medical professionals will be able to receive the training. VA medical facilities will better. There will be oversight because we have made an investment there. It won't just be the same old thing over and over again. These are the facts. 
   Politically, you know, if someone just says, I am with the President, that is fine. But have the facts, have the facts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so much, Ms. Jackson-Lee. Thank you so much for coming down and sharing information that you shared with us. I think it is also important to note in the budget resolution that we have, it  will not change the tax structure that the taxes, the President's tax cuts will sunset 2010. It doesn't change that. 
   So as we start to move along. But I just want to make this point. I think it is very important. I am just going to ask the question, since we have three Members on the floor, and I know, Ms. Jackson-Lee, you are about to leave. Here at the Capitol, when we are walking across the street to come over here to vote, and even when we have groups come up to visit with us, and even in my district office, in the 5 years, 5, going on 5 years that I have been in Congress, Mr. Ryan and I have been here 5, you have been here longer than us, that not one millionaire or billionaire came to me and said, please protect my tax cut. Not one billionaire wearing Polo shoes walked up outside of the Chamber and said, Congressman, I am a billionaire, you know, with a pinky with diamonds and everything on it. Please protect my tax cut. Done give my tax cut to kids without health insurance, not one. Not one. 
   I am just trying to figure out, but I can tell you, people from the State of Florida, that is in government, say please help insure our children. There have been veterans running in here saying, I can't wait 6 months to see the ophthalmologist any more. Can you help us? 
   Back in the District, Congressman, have you been to the VA hospital recently, or the clinic? Do you have to pin your nose when you walk in because of the conditions there? 
   I have seen that. I haven't seen a billionaire or millionaire run up and say, please, fall on your knees, Congressman, whatever you do, do not take my tax cut away that I didn't even ask for. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You are welcome. Again, third-party validators, and I have here Congressional Budget Office numbers here, there is nothing it is nothing like the truth, and it is nothing like the Congressional Record. I can tell you when we look at, these are the same individuals in the White House, and some of the same Members on this floor that were left over from the days of just spend, spend, spend, borrow, borrow, borrow, don't worry about it, we are not going to be here to fix it, but here is the truth, $5.6 trillion surplus was here when the President got here, President Bush. 
   We have had an $8.4 trillion swing, deficit, from a $5.6 trillion surplus, which means, projection, we had money, and these numbers were based on 2002 to 2011 projections, to now, a $2.8 trillion deficit. Republican policies and this, you know, that got us there, $8.4 trillion. 
   Let me just share this with you. The amount of foreign debt held more than doubles under the Bush administration. He didn't do it by himself, that is why we have a Democratic Congress, because the American people caught on to what he was doing and what the rubber stamp Congress was doing last Congress. We are talking about accountability. We are talking about being responsible with U.S. tax dollars, foreign-held debt. Look at it skyrocket, going straight up. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Trillions of dollars. Trillions of dollars. We have kids now, growing up, can't even get to the trillion part. Who are we getting the money from? That is interesting, a list of countries. Mr. Ryan has been to a few of these countries.  
   Japan has $644.3 billion of our debt. They bought that debt because of Republican policies and because of the rubber-stamp Congress. We have to have a paradigm shift here. We want to change. 
   China, $249.8 billion, I think it is important to also understand that. The UK, $239.1 billion. You can see it goes across, and all of these countries have a part of American apple pie now.     
   This is the same group, the same folks that are saying that we are going to continue to raise taxes and we don't manage. We are the party and we are the majority, back when we had the majority 12 years ago, that balanced the budget and took us into surpluses. So who has the track record as relates to doing the right thing on behalf of the country? 
   Budget resolution reaches balance by 2010. The numbers come from the Congressional Budget Office. And this is the House resolution, our bill. The Bush budget is projected to be $31 billion under, still in deficit. We are going to be at a surplus. These are the projections by 2010, $1.53 billion. These are the facts, Mr. Ryan. And I know they hurt for some Members, but they are educational to others, and they give them what they need to be able to come here and make sound decisions. 
   Mr. Ryan, the bottom line is this. We are not by ourselves. Let's talk about why we are not by ourselves. And I just want to read a couple of the folks that are with us on this issue. And I think it is important, and there are so many, I had a list here, Mr. Ryan, that kind of a little cheat sheet here. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Tell you what. You start naming off a few, and then I will name off. Because we need to make sure the Members know that this not just something that came out the back room. 
   Oh, I have my list here now. There is so much information, Mr. Ryan, that we have to share. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. The Members who are in their offices, those that may be on the floor, I don't want them to have to wait to read the Congressional Record tomorrow, the next day or what have you. I just wanted to name a few of these folks. I think it is important. 
   Military Officers Association of America wrote a letter in support of this budget. The National Child Support Enforcement Association, the National Low Income Housing Association, the National Women of Law Centers Association, Fight Crime, Invest in Kids. 
   The National Association of Counties. Who are they? These are counties throughout the country and parishes that are saying enough is enough. 
   The National Association of Police Organizations, Inc. Who are they? They are our law enforcement community that is looking for the COPS program to come back. 
   The National School Board Association, the National Head Start Association, the Ohio Child Support Enforcement Agency Directors Association. I thought I would mention that, Mr. Ryan, since you were here. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. The Trust for Public Land and Conservation Fund endorse. The Trust Alliance endorse what we are doing here. The U.S. Public Interest Research Group endorse what we are doing here. Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States endorse what we are doing, because they are seeing the largest increase in commitment that so many Members of Congress have talked about over the years. 
   The American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. These are the folks that work every day. These are the individuals that come in before we get here and leave after us. These are the works folks that know what it means to punch in and punch out. 
   The Audubon Society, Catholic Charities, the Committee for Education Funding, the Computer and Communications Industry Association, Catholic Health Association, Defenders of Wildlife, Disabled American Veterans. 
   These are the individuals, Mr. Ryan, and that is just, I can't go through all of the letters. We have the letters right here. I am not just reading from a sheet, just saying, well, I am just going to read. Anybody want to see this, they can stop by 1039 Longworth, and I will give them several copies of this. And, Mr. Speaker, they can run and take a look at them. 
   My Republican colleagues, some that I believe that will vote with us on this budget resolution, since it is so good and it is doing the right thing and it is not just about Iraq and Iraq and the other issue, Iraq. It is about domestic priorities. It is about making sure that our children have health care. It is about protecting the homeland. It is about all of the things and all of the reasons why we came to Congress. Not just to hear from the President and say, so shall it be written, so shall it be done.  
   So, Mr. Ryan, for you to get passionate about this, not that I am not passionate about it, but I think it is important that we share this accurate information with the people, with not only Members of Congress but the American people. So I am glad that you entered it into the Congressional Record. Those that may be able to get on-line or even get a copy of the Congressional Record will be able to see these great American organizations that will endorse. 
   And I know, Mr. Speaker, as this budget resolution, when we start moving through the process and the Senate product and we go into conference and we send it to the President of the United States, there will be a true momentum of the American spirit that will be rolling over to the White House on Pennsylvania. It will go right down the street here. 
   If the President wants to veto domestic priorities and things that are going to help Americans every day and be able to make sure that our military is strong and make sure that our veterans get better service that we promised them when they signed up as volunteers to protect this country, then we have to continue, Mr. Ryan and Members, to persuade the President to do otherwise. If he wants to veto it, we have to persuade him not to do it. 
   I am not going to say have at it. It would be okay if it wasn't the budget of the United States of America. It would be okay if it wasn't an emergency supplemental to make sure that our troops and men and women have what they need and accountability measures are in that emergency supplemental to hold the Iraqi government's feet to the fire, and what the administration has said, and making sure that our troops have what they need when they are sent into harm's way and make sure when they come back home that they are able to even go to their son or daughter's school without coming back in 6 weeks and 2 months being shipped back to Iraq for another 14-month tour. Because the administration, it takes them so long to admit that they have a problem. They just admitted 
   2 weeks ago, the Defense Department just called the conflict in Iraq a civil war after a year of the media and Members of Congress saying it was a civil war. They just got there, Mr. Ryan. 
   So the good thing about it is that, and in the last Congress we used to talk about if we had the opportunity to do. Now we have the opportunity, and we are doing, and I would just want the majority of this House to join us in the leadership opportunities that the American people have provided us. And I am not just talking to Democrats, Mr. Speaker, I am talking to my Republican colleagues. 
   Because, guess what? Maybe not this November but next November is going to be another opportunity for the American people to stand in judgment. And I guarantee you this: People are going to vote their personal priorities over their politics. 
   The President got out there today. They are going to get us. Terrorists are coming. We have to fight them there so we don't have to fight them over here. Well, guess what? When we passed and fully implemented the 9/11 recommendations, we are ready to protect America. That is what this budget reflects, and that is the way we protect the homeland, not continuing to stay in the middle of civil war. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Very quickly, while you get the chart to give the Web site, Mr. Ryan, I just wanted to say in this letter that Senator Reid, the leader in the Senate, and also the Speaker here in the House wrote to the President saying that we will no longer move in the old direction but, rather, a bipartisan majority of the House and Senate believes strongly that the U.S. mission should transition to a counterterrorism force protection and training equipment of the Iraqi forces. Phasing redeployment of U.S. troops should commence. 
   So this is the stage that we want to move in now. It won't be a total withdrawal but definitely will be making sure that there are accountability measures there, that their troops get trained and that we get our men and women back home more sooner than later. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - April 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to come before the House once again. 
   As you know, in the 30-Something Working Group, we work very hard to put forth the agenda of the American people. We have been consistent over a number of years in doing this. And I think that it's important for the forward progress of not only the House of Representatives but also for the American people. 
   The good thing about coming to the floor and sharing what's happening here in the Capitol Dome, or what's not happening, is its importance in strengthening our democracy and also strengthening our economy and strengthening the faith in government by the American people. And I think that some of the information, especially as it comes in a bipartisan fashion, that it allows our friends on the Republican side of the aisle to be able to take part in legislation that the American people support wholeheartedly. 
   Case in point: increasing the minimum wage, adopting all the 9/11 recommendations, and also looking at the issue of the greening of America, putting forth incentives of saving our Earth as we move forth, fighting for community police officers for local law enforcement agencies, State law enforcement agencies, and also the Federal outlook of being able to deter crime in this country; also assisting children and getting a level of health care that they deserve in a universal sense as it relates to S-CHIP, or what we call CHAMP here on the floor; and to also have hearings, to open up this government to the American people, of transparency. 
   As we started talking about Member projects, Mr. Speaker, in the appropriations process, we brought about the transparency that the American people have been looking for, disclosure, to make sure that these projects are worthy projects, and also having what we call reform, and we have shown that.     
   I want to just talk about a few things, Mr. Speaker, if I can, before the rest of the 30-Something Group is recognized, of what is happening now, not only in America, but overseas. We know that a number of officials from the Bush administration have been asked to come to Capitol Hill to testify before various committees, be they House or Senate. Today's news is the economy. When we start looking at testimony that took place here today, where it was first mentioned, not that we were trying to make history, a Bush administration official saying that the country is in a small recession and that recovery will be soon, and very soon, well, it reminds me of the debate when we talked about what was going on in Darfur, in Africa, if we want to call it genocide or not. We already knew it was genocide so we didn't necessarily have to wait for the President or the Bush administration to say it was genocide. But it did help when they said that it was. 
   Well, since now the Bush administration has come around to find out that their policies of tax breaks for billionaires and millionaires did not help the economy, and now has testified that we are in a recession, or a small recession, using the R word, maybe we can start  dealing with the solution as a unified government. 
   One example of how we have worked together in unity has been what was shown when we passed the small stimulus bill that was passed, and I know that the Speaker and Democratic leaders are looking, and also hopefully Republican leaders, are working towards a stimulus package that will create jobs, U.S. jobs here, and would allow those from the GED education to the post-graduate education, doctoral, those that have gone beyond in their education to be able to take part in new job creation here in the United States. So we have these forward leaning initiatives that we are ready and willing to work on. 
   The second point, I think it's also important as we look at the housing crisis that we are in right now. Mr. Speaker, I am actually in the next couple of weeks holding a ``save your home'' or recovery effort in my district. I am asking my constituents to come forth, those that are trying to make their mortgages, and bringing lenders together, along with credit counselors, to be able to assist them to save the only thing that they have, and that is their home. 
   I think it's so very, very important that we continue to work very hard. I know that Chairman Frank, the Financial Services Committee, will be having a hearing in response to what has been happening in the housing crisis. I know that the Senate is working very hard to have some product come before this House soon, and very soon, to deal with this. 
   I think it's important that those of us in Congress not only support the public efforts that are going on, but also encourage the banking community and the lending community to step forward and try to assist as much as they can in saving the piece of the pie of the American dream. With so many Americans, that dream is now turning into a nightmare. It's our job to be able to stand up for those individuals. 
   I think that it's also important to know the chair of the Federal Reserve is continuing to warn us of a possible recession. I think that it's important for us to look at it as a reality where it is now. 
   Now for individuals that have substance abuse problems, or whatever the case may be, first you have to admit that you have a problem for us to get to the recovery, or to recover from that problem, to be able to receive the kind of treatment that is needed. As it relates to the decision makers in Washington and in the lending community, admitting that there is a problem is important. Many of us have, but we still have some holdouts for the sake of holding out. I think that as we move on, that we press on in a bipartisan way to make that happen. There will be efforts to make that happen. I ask my Republican friends on the other side of the aisle to be a part of the solution and not just the argument. 
   I think that when we also, Mr. Speaker, and I just want to share some of these thoughts because we have had 2 weeks off and I have had an opportunity to focus on some of the things that I wanted to share with the House of not only the observations, my personal observations, but what I have read of what others have written of their concerns about the lack of leadership on recovering or bringing about the kind of recovery we need on this economy. That there are certain things that have to be in place. 
   I know the first stimulus package we did gives some relief to homeowners through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and FHA loans and raising that ceiling so they can be able to assist individuals to save their homes. But we have got to go further than that. We have to be able to create the jobs that individuals need to be able to save their homes. 
   The second point I wanted to make, Mr. Speaker, that I think is vital, General Petraeus is going to be here on the Hill within a week. We know that we are starting to see violence again in Iraq. We know that we have put a large investment on the ground in Iraq, not only in our men and women that are over 140,000, that are there, but also we put a major cash investment on the streets of Iraq in hiring a number of Iraqis with U.S. dollars, cash dollars that they are paid in to help keep the peace in certain neighborhoods that have been a part of the uprising and the insurgency. 
   If I had the dollars that we have on the ground in Iraq in my district, there would be no crime. We would be able to hire those individuals that some may say are unemployable, that are out doing things that we don't necessarily agree with. Some justify their actions on the lack of being able to be employed, some justify their acts on the fact that they are not able to, even if they are employable, there are no jobs for them to get to be a productive member of society. Of course, there is a lack of job training dollars in our States and in our communities. There is a lack of bridge dollars to be able to introduce these individuals back into society, especially those that have made youthful indiscretions. 
   But as we start looking at General Petraeus' testimony when we come back before Congress, we have to look at it from the standpoint of where are we going from this point. I think that the American people are ready for the Iraq experience to be over as it relates to street-to-street, neighborhood-to-neighborhood protection of the Iraqi people. I think that it's time for our government to be able at the highest levels, and I know many Members of the House, including myself, have personal editorials on this issue. But we are looking forward to General Petraeus' report. We are also looking forward to Ambassador Crocker's report. 
   We are also looking forward to hearing not only from other experts that are in the area of Iraq, and I know the Armed Services Committee is going to be dealing with that, but I ask the Members in a bipartisan way to look at it not with a partisan eye, but look at it from a standpoint of what is best for the United States of America. So when we deal with the economy and we deal with Iraq, I mean there are two major issues that are going on in the country. For those that write books and for those that are historians, they are paying very, very close attention to what is going on. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am glad to be joined by my colleagues. I am just going to do it in order of seniority and order of people that are next to me. Even though I am going to recognize Mr. Altmire, since he made it here first, we have Mr. Ryan from the great State of Ohio, and represents Niles, Ohio, Youngstown, and has been doing great work here when we first started the 30-Something Working Group. We do have what I mentioned at the beginning of my comments, Mr. Speaker, is what we look for is consistency and accuracy on what we share with the Members and also the American people. 
   I have my good friend Ms. Clarke, Yvette Clarke from the great State of New York, and representing Brooklyn in a very proud way. I have been to her district and seen her work, and she has worked on the local government level and brings a flavor to this body that all Members should appreciate, and I know that will continue to be a force here in Congress. And Mr. Jason Altmire, he and Mr. Ryan speak of very fondly, in the same television market, media market. Mr. Ryan actually participated in Mr. Altmire's election. I am glad that Mr. Altmire is here. He is a great voice here in Congress and has passed bills on this floor that are substantial to the very fiber of our democracy. 
   Mr. Speaker, with that, just these opening comments that I have made, I know that with us being off 2 weeks, many of these Members have a lot to share. But as we look at the next couple of weeks and beyond, there is going to be a lot going on here in the Capitol dome, and the American people are going to be paying very careful attention to it, and we need bipartisan support in making that happen. 
   Mr. Altmire. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - April 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. If the gentlewoman will yield for a second, I want to share something with the Members and also with those of us here on the floor. 
   During the break, I took the privilege of going out to Camp Pendleton in California. As you go through the gate off of I-5, there is a billboard that is there, like you would see out in front of a drugstore or something, but it is an electronic billboard and it talks about if you need counseling. They have folks coming back every 4 months or so, some folks who have gone on their third and fourth tour. 
   Think about it. You have families that live on that base. You have individuals the age of 18 or 19 years old, just single, that are living there. 
   I had an opportunity to go through a simulator there at Camp Pendleton like you are in an Iraqi village or in a city, in Baghdad, in Fallujah. I have walked the streets of Fallujah. Mr. Altmire and I have done it. Mr. Ryan and I have been to Iraq on another trip. The ground, the structure, the folks dressed as though you are in Baghdad, it is a true simulation, and they have gunfire and IEDs and all of these things kind of going off in this simulator. 
   Just walking through that was an experience for me, and that was just an enactment of what could happen or what should happen and giving our troops, our Marines, units going through there, a real flavor of what is going on. 
   I can imagine being in the situation. I knew that I could walk out, the sun will be shining, it will be California weather. But when you are in that kind of situation, some folks feel that this is just some sort of made-for-television kind of thing. 
   I love the troops. Mr. Ryan and I, we have been hearing this since we have been in Congress, because when we first got here, the war just started. We weren't here for the vote to go or not to go, but we got here right as soon as the war actually started. Some of the statements that are littered throughout the Congressional Record are, you know, ``our troops, we'll show 'em,'' and carrying on. 
   We do have the best and the greatest and the most able military on the face of the Earth, by far. But when you start dealing with the real human issues of our men and women that are in combat, they go through a lot and their families go through a lot. 
   What you said, Ms. Clarke, about we should take under consideration what happens to those individuals, it's not a game.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - April 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Altmire, I can tell you, it is a breath of fresh air. I want to differ with you all just for a minute. 
   I don't mind our colleagues on the Republican side giving misinformation. I don't mind it, because American people have a lack of trust in what they say and very little understanding of what they do. 
   We speak here in the 30-Something Working Group, Ms. Clarke, about fact, not fiction. We spend a lot of time working with the Speaker's staff, working with our personal staffs to make sure we are accurate when we come to the floor, because it does mean something when you come to this floor and share with your colleagues about what we should be doing, how we should be doing it, and what we have done. And I am glad you focused on what we have done. 
   When I was in the State legislature, there was a gentleman by the name of Alzo Reddick that represented Orlando, Florida; I represented Miami, Florida. And I will never forget, I was like in my second year of public service or something and all of this debate is going on in the legislature; it was a great melting pot of opinions. 
   We were going back and forth, and folks were spending a lot of time describing the problem. And he got up and he said, ``I just want to remind the members that we were not only elected to describe the problem, but mainly to do something about it. Okay? And now we are trying to do something about it with this bill.'' And he went on from there. 
   And it was very profound, because I have a lot of folks in my district who spend a lot of time describing problems, and a lot of them I run into when I am at the grocery store or what have you, and there are a lot of folks who are on the sideline who don't want to get in the game. This is a contact sport in many ways in this legislative body. And when we were in the minority, we talked about what we would do if we had the opportunity. Remember that, Mr. Ryan? And I know that you all remember it because you were watching and a part of it and running for office at the time. So you were out there echoing ``what I would do once I get there.'' And I am glad you talk about that, because there was a laundry list. And, Mr. Speaker, you know prior in this hour we talked and I talked about some of the accomplishments we have made. And we have done it, Ms. Clarke, in a bipartisan way. 
   We don't stand up here and dance in the end zone and say where are Democrats only passed this piece of legislation. There has been some legislation  that Republicans have not seen eye to eye and it has become law. And we don't want to dance in the end zone on that, because the American people want to win. 
   So I say all of that to say this. I very seldom make reference to what my colleagues say on the other side, because as far as I am concerned, I don't want to echo inaccurate information. But we do need to clarify it so that folks don't get concerned and start saying, ``Oh, my gosh. Do you mean to tell me that's true? Is it really true?'' So we're trying to build faith, because right now Congress is not where it should be as it relates in the minds of the American people that they feel good and warm and fuzzy. Polls have shown that they do feel more comfortable with Democratic leadership in Congress than Republican leadership in Congress. But as an institution and as a government, I guarantee you that Suzy whoever and Johnny whoever would like to see a government that works in a cohesive way toward the common good. 
   The gentlewoman, Yvette Clarke, came to the floor with a purpose today. She came to the floor with the purpose of talking about the realities of life. And you know that we have Members here thinking that our commitment and our loyalty to the military comes in the form of smart bombs, guns, and some sort of grenade. But, guess what, it also comes in the form of thinking about their families. 
   We just can't use and abuse and just say, well, we don't want to deal with that part that is after the fact; that is dealing after. Because when I was at Camp Pendleton, I stayed on base, as I do when I went to MacDill Air Force Base, as I do when I go to any location. I have been down to Norfolk, Virginia and big Navy. I stay on base so we can hear the stories from these families of what they are going through. And they say, well, we understood a Member of Congress is on base, and you bump into them: Sir, I just want to let you know how I feel as an individual. And that is important. And we have taken that, because we have had hearings in the Armed Services Committee, we have taken that into consideration in the Appropriations Committee. Mr. Murtha has done an excellent job by making sure that we pump dollars in on the family side and doing some of the things in our MILCON appropriations trying to do things to help those kids deal with the shock and the trauma of dad or mom coming home screaming in the middle of the night and they don't understand what is going on. 
   So when we look at these issues, I am glad that we are addressing those issues, but we have to look at retooling this whole Iraq debate and how we got into this in the first place, because we are going to have Ambassador Crocker here, we are going to have General Petraeus that we have met with, we have met with all of these individuals before in the past. We want the real deal from them. But, as Members of Congress, we have got to stand up on behalf of the American people, be they Democrat, Republican, or Independent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - October 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to be before the House once again. 
   As you know, the 30-something Working Group, we come to the floor maybe once, twice, three times, if we can, a week to not only share with the Members the good things that we are doing but also some things that we are going to have to work together on, bills that we're going to have to work together on on behalf of America. 
   We've been able to do quite a bit this session, Mr. Speaker, and accomplish a lot in this first session. We have had record-breaking roll call votes never taken before. I think it's somewhere around 980 votes, I mean, not even counting the votes today, that have been taken here in the House that have never been taken in the history of the Republic, since the mid-70s. I believe it was 1975 or 1974 that held the record for roll call votes, and this year is not over yet, and we still have a lot of business to conduct. 
   I can't help but, Mr. Speaker, come to the floor and talk a little bit about what happened with the children's health care bill. I know just an hour ago we voted to override the President of the United States, and that's something that the Congress has the opportunity to do. The President decided to veto the children's health care bill. The Congress said that we would override. The Senate had the votes but the House, we weren't able to do it today. It wasn't because of Democratic Members of Congress, why we weren't able to override, and it wasn't because of 44 Republicans who voted with Democrats to override the President. It was 154 Republicans who decided to stand with the President and not voting for the override. 
   Now, we fell 13 votes short. What does that mean? I'm not here today to start calling names and pointing fingers, but I'm here today to make sure that the Members know that the good thing about America is that you have the second chance to do the right thing, and the Members had a second chance to do the right thing and failed to do so. The 13 Members or so failed to do so because they voted against the original bill that came before us that the President vetoed, but on the override they had the opportunity to say the right thing, and they didn't do it. 
   And within that 154 or within that 13, I just want to identify some of the States that will not receive health care or children's health care from the CHIP bill. 
   In California, 1.8 million kids have been denied health care. State of Florida, my very State, my State that I represent, those Members that voted, the 13 we fell short, voted against 616,000 kids. In Georgia, 467,000 for those Members that voted against the SCHIP bill override. Illinois, 435,000; Indiana, 199,000. And I'm just using round numbers here, Mr. Speaker. Iowa, 72,962; Kentucky, 112,000 will be denied health care because Members of the other side, 13 Republicans, said we needed to be able to close the gap, did not vote with us today to override the  President. In Maryland, 185,000; and Ohio, 338,000. In Pennsylvania, 312,000 will not be able to receive health care because we fell short of 13 votes. We did not get it from the Republican side of the aisle. 
   South Carolina, 122,000 children will be denied health care. In Texas, 966,000 will be denied health care. In Utah, 74,000 will be denied health care. And in Wisconsin, 94,000 will be denied health care, and in Wyoming, 12,000 will be denied health care because we did not have the said votes we needed to have, 13 votes on the Republican side that we needed to override. 
   Now, there were a lot of things said about the SCHIP bill, and a good part of the day and some 2 hours and change was devoted to both sides having an opportunity, Democrats and Republicans, to discuss their support or lack of support for overriding the President on this veto. 
   Mr. Speaker, I just want to kind of point out here, this picture is going to end up being one of my National Archives pictures when I, you know, relinquish them and I let them go. I kind of keep things as I come to the floor. There are certain charts, and as you know, Mr. Speaker, I do love charts and I'm glad because they illustrate not only for the Members but they illustrate a period of time in American history which now we're living in right now. 
   This picture was taken when a majority of the Republican Caucus went down and went to the White House and stood with the President on the first bill that we passed to put the heat on the Iraqi Government as it relates to the politicians there in Iraq living up to its responsibilities so that our U.S. troops don't have to continue to do patrols in the streets of Iraq, to be able to do exactly what the President called for as it relates to benchmarks or timelines, that certain things are supposed to happen or else. We put that in legislation, and the Republican Conference ran down there and had a press conference with the President saying we're standing with the President. 
   Well, today some of the folks in this photo here stood with the President, and they're within the 154 that voted against the SCHIP bill override. It's so unfortunate that the kids that I just called out and thousands and millions of other kids are going to be denied health care. Poor kids, they're going to be denied health care. 
   We also have, Mr. Speaker, something that I think is very, very important. Our obligation here is to make sure the children have health care and that the good people of the United States of America have access to health care, and I'm getting more and more concerned about folks being more loyal to the President, more loyal to special interests on the minority side than, in my opinion, being loyal to some of the constituents that need our assistance; and I think that's very, very important. 
   I think it's important also to note that this goes beyond politics, because I believe those that voted and within the 13 because I'm glad I'm not in that number of the 154 Republicans that voted against this override. They're going to have to, within that, the 13 that was needed to override the President decided not to, and I think that there's been some career decisions that have been made. 
   Obviously, I mean, everyone knows that I'm a Democrat, but if I was an independent or I was a Republican or I was someone that was thinking about voting one day and taking part in this democracy of ours as it relates to the ballot, if a Congressman came up to me and said, guess what, one day I'm going to have the opportunity to vote for health care for poor children that go to school with your kids that live in your neighborhood, folks that work either in your business or people that work with you at work, I'm going to deny them health care, not once but twice, vote for me on Tuesday. There's no way in the world I know a Member did not give that speech and will not give that speech, but today walked in here, slipped the voting card in here, voted ``no'' and left and went home for the weekend. 
   This was the close of business. It was the last vote that we took. It was a major vote. We took a Journal vote earlier today. There were only two votes, approving the Journal and voting to override the President of the United States on denying poor children health care. So no one could have gotten confused about, oh, maybe I pushed the wrong button or what have you. 
   I just want to make sure that the Members understand that this is about serious business here, and I'm going to tell you the American people voted for a new direction. Matter of fact, this reminds me of the old days when we had the rubber-stamp Congress, and I want to make sure my staff bring the rubber stamp down from my office because we haven't had it down here probably only once in the 110th Congress, but I'm going to make sure it gets down here to the floor before I leave the floor because I can tell you, you can't go wrong with friends like that illustrated here in this picture, you can't go wrong. 
   The President should feel comfortable, as far as I'm concerned should write a handwritten note saying thank you for sticking with me but not sticking with the poor children of the United States of America. Ten million children we're talking about insuring. 
   The President says, well, you know, maybe 1 million or 2 million or 3 million or 5 million, that's my proposal or what have you, going back and forth. The bottom line is without even a real discussion, without even a real discussion the President is willing to move forward on saying that we should be in Iraq forever, and I think that's a real issue for the people of the country. I think that's a real issue because when you look at article I, section 1 of the U.S. Constitution, I mean, the Congress has a lot to do. 
   But what happens as it relates to not only the funding of the war in Iraq but also as it relates to policy, as we look at this issue of Iraq but we're having all this discussion about Iraq and then we try to do something domestic, major something domestic and reauthorizing a program that provides children's health care, and when you look at it, when you look at it here, Mr. Speaker, one day of funding in the war in Iraq costs $330 million and could insure 270,000 kids. One week in Iraq, one week, we're not talking about, you know, one year, we're talking one week, $2.3 billion insures 1.8 million kids.     
   One month in Iraq, $10 billion, that is $10 billion, that is with a capital B, 1.8 million kids can receive health care. And 37 days in Iraq, $12.2 billion spent, 10 million kids can receive coverage. 
   Now, it is all right and the President is saying, why are you even asking the question? Why are you even questioning my wisdom for even saying that we should continue to fund the war in Iraq? But meanwhile, we are sitting back here and kids are getting the veto again. 
   I think it is important for the Members to understand what is going on here. And I think that the reason why a lot of average Americans have a great level of frustration with Washington, DC is the fact that we can do something 10,000-plus miles away from continental United States for children that we will not even do for children here in the United States of America. Now, that is a problem. 
   Now, I don't have a problem. I have been to Iraq three times. I have been to Afghanistan. I have been a little bit of everywhere as it relates to the Middle East, because that is a big concern as relates to our issues that we have not only diplomatically but also as it relates to safety and that we have to engage in dialogue. But I have a problem, Mr. Speaker, of what I know and what is actually happening here on this floor. 
   Now, again, I am glad this chart is here now. When we start talking about having your back, I mean, the Republican conference which is a number, I am not going to generalize because 44 of the members of that conference voted with the children of America today, with Democrats, and overriding the President of the United States; but the majority, the 154 that voted against were part of the same group. Again, I am going back to the President. The President is not running again for election, but I can tell you this much; that, I can tell you that it is very, very important that we pay attention to the pattern that is taking place. Yes, we have a Democratic majority in the House, we have a Democratic majority in the Senate, but I  think it is important for us to take note of the consistent voting loyal to the President. This is not a loyalty contest. People weren't elected to be loyal to any given party. They are elected to make sure that their constituents and the people of America get what they need out of their government. And when we look at this, foreign debt doubles under President Bush on the $1.9 trillion in 6 years between 2001 and 2006. Forty-two Presidents that I have here, Mr. Speaker, 42 Presidents, 224 years, $1.01 trillion, from 1776 to the year 2000, was only able to borrow from foreign nations $1.01 trillion. So the President has already trumped, with the former rubber-stamp Republican Congress in the last Congress. But it is in another form now, Mr. Speaker. It is in the form to where you see, saying, well, we no longer have the majority. The American people have taken that from us. The American people have taken that from us. Now we are in the business of stopping the new direction Congress that Republicans, Independents, Democrats voted for a new direction because they were concerned about the Republican rubber-stamp Congress following the President of the United States, the rubber-stamp Congress that was here, following the President of the United States to the new Congress, now saying, well, we have enough votes to stop the two-thirds that is needed to override the President, so that is going to be our new stance, Mr. President. We are with you all the way. 
   Well, I can tell you this much, Mr. Speaker and Members. I think it is important for many of those Members in the 109th Congress that followed the President, the Pied Piper, saying, let's go this way, let's vote this way, stick with me, I am going to lead you. And, guess what? Many of them are at home right now reading the paper about what is happening here in the Capitol dome because they are no longer, they are no longer in Congress. Now, some of them were friends, some of them I knew personally. That is fine. But on the policy end, they were following the President and found themselves unelected. 
   Now, if this was a political discussion, Mr. Speaker, I would, I would go somewhere and I would go somewhere reading the newspaper or taking a break or something, or maybe reading a good book right now or on the plane going back down to Florida. But this is about politics. Because I would just allow the 154 that voted against the override to continue to vote like they had been voting if it was about politics, because the American people will make sure that they rise up come some given Tuesday in another year from now and vote those individuals out of Congress because they are voting against children's health care. 
   Saying all of that, I think it is important to say where we are right now in not only history but in the present. If it was just politics, I would just go sit down, but it is not about politics. It is about children's health care. I must shed light on this and we must continue to put the pressure on. I commend the Speaker for holding her ground on this issue. I want the Speaker to continue to hold her ground on this issue because we cannot backslide on making sure that poor children have health care; not something that looks like health care, but actually has health care, so that they can be healthy and do the things that they have to do. 
   I tell you, Mr. Speaker, as I was in my office preparing to come to the floor, I was just reading some of the clips. I am glad the rubber stamp has made it down to the floor, and I will address the rubber stamp, I will come back to it. 
   It says on the headline of the New York Times, and this is hot off the press here, it says: The House Fails to Override Child Health Care Bill Veto. And the bottom line is is that the vote to override was 273-156, or 13 votes short of the necessary two-thirds majority of those voting. The bill was originally approved about a couple weeks ago, September 25, 265 voting for it and 159 voting against it. 
   Now, you know, one thing that this administration is not used to, Mr. Speaker, and some of our friends on the Republican side of the aisle are not used to is a bill coming to the floor already paid for. They are used to rubber stamping and saying, put it on the credit card for the next generation to pay for. I have a 10-year-old son and I have a 12-year-old daughter, and guess what? I care about their financial future. I don't want them in debt. I don't want to have them to turn around and, Mr. Speaker, having to pay to Japan, to China, to the U.K., to the Caribbean, to Taiwan, to OPEC nations, to Korea, to Hong Kong, to Germany of money that the President and the rubber-stamp Republican Congress before this Congress did because all they did was say, oh, that is fine, you want tax cuts, special interest billionaire, kazillionaire. We want to go into a new stratosphere of how many subsidies we are going to give you. We are going to do it. And guess what? We are not even concerned how we are going to pay for it. We are going to borrow from foreign nations. We are going to put it on the backs of those Americans that are not even eligible to vote right now, those Americans that were born since I have been on the floor here that are going to have to pay the bill. And in a new direction Congress, Democratic Congress, we said we weren't going to do it, and we haven't done it. And here we are again. This is a new form of the Republican rubber-stamp minority that is standing with the President all the way. 
   I am glad this rubber stamp is down here, because I spent a lot of time, Mr. Speaker, here on the floor with many of my colleagues. I think this stamp here one day will be properly placed somewhere in a glass case because this is what used to be. The President said, let's give tax breaks to super-wealthy corporations, record-breaking oil subsidies. Boom. No problem. Rubber stamp. It is going to happen. So shall it be written, so shall it be done. Those days are over. 
   But now it is in a new form. We are going to stand with you when it comes down to overriding some of the major issues that Americans care about. A, this war in Iraq as it relates to the policy that we should be passing that so many Americans are very frustrated with, the fact that the Congress and the President has not been able to come through with policy that will eventually bring our men and women home, will eventually bring our combat troops home, because we will be providing technical assistance in the region for some time. But we are losing a number of our young people and our middle-aged folks that are reservists that have been deployed longer than any other fighting force in the past and we are still here going back and forth. And the reason why we are going back and forth is the fact that we don't have the necessary votes on the Republican side to be able to override the President. And the Senate, the procedural 60 votes that you need to bring certain issues are not there, because there is only a 51 majority Democrats there. So I think it is important, not only do we report the news, but we also talk about how we can do better. 
   Now, I come to the floor with a clear mind and a clear heart and ask my colleagues on the Republican side of the aisle: We fell 13 votes short of providing poor children health care today. I ask, as we started to look at this issue again, and another vote will be coming up in weeks, that one goes within their soul and within their heart and think about voting in the affirmative so that we can pass the bipartisan health care opportunities for young people that we have done. 
   Now, this was a bipartisan bill. You know, you listen to the President, you think, oh, the Democrats sent me a bill. Well, I guess the 45 Republicans that voted with us on the original bill and the 44 that voted with us today, I guess they are Democrats, too. Or maybe they are just Members of Congress who say that it is their responsibility to make sure that poor children in their district and within the country have health care. Boy, that is something. And so I think it is very, very important that we move down and move in that direction. 
   I will put that rubber stamp off to the side because I never want to see those days again, but I wanted to bring it down to the floor because I thought it was fitting today that we do that. 
   I think it is important that we highlight the fact that there are a number of polls that have been out on this issue and who has said that Americans are in full, almost full support of expanding the children's health care bill.  Eighty-one percent in the CBS poll have said, I am for health care and expanding it for poor children; 81 percent, 15 opposed. And I think that is something to look at, and I think that is something that Members should pay very, very close attention to. 
   I also, Mr. Speaker, I think what is important, as we started looking at what is to be done in the very near future, we have to look at the fact that we have families, we have children, we have policymakers in the States that are counting on a children's health care program. We have doctors that are concerned about the lack of health care that children already are experiencing here in the United States, and so when we started talking about reauthorization, we started talking about expanding to more kids, they are happy but now they are concerned. We have over 170 organizations that deal with children and good government and support, still in support, of overriding the President on the health care bill on the SCHIP bill that he vetoed. That is history now. But I think it is important that, I want to encourage those Members that voted for the override, I want to encourage those Members on the Republican side, the 44 that voted with Democrats to override the President, to stay encouraged. To stay encouraged, because so many times we know about the glory, Mr. Speaker, but we don't necessarily know about the story. And right now we are writing the story on providing health care to poor children in the United States of America. And I say to children of the United States of America, because you have some Members here that are willing to vote for kids in Iraq and other places that have health care but not willing to vote for our own children here in the United States to get health care. And I think it is important that as we start to build this story, there is some good chapters and some bad chapters. And I think the good chapters that can be added to this story of getting to the glory part where we are able to have expanded benefits for children and also expanded coverage for children to provide health care for the next 5 years, or as long as we can get it at that number, for some Members who voted to not allow those children to have health care to come to the side of allowing them to have health care.     
   Voting in the affirmative for children's health care, now maybe the vote would have been a little different if this was 2008 and their constituents were paying very close attention to every vote that their Congressman or Congresswoman would take here on this floor. 
   But, you know, the good thing about it, some may say that, but I believe that the American people are paying attention to what's going on here. I also believe that the American spirit will rise up. I said that last Congress; and a lot of folks said, yeah, you know, that's fine. The attention span, you know, of the average person is probably about, you know, a week or two or what have you. When it falls off the screen of the Today Show and other shows, it'll just kind of drift off. 
   But I can tell you this much: last Congress there were votes that were taken that the American people remembered. And I think it's important that folks understand that that will happen this time around. 
   And I'm not in the business of making sure that folks no longer serve in Congress. That's not my piece. I'm here to represent the people of the 17th Congressional District and the people of the United States of America to the best of my ability. 
   But I think that it's important because this is not politics, it's policy making, that those that voted against it be a part of a good chapter and allowing people to be able to have health care. 
   I want to commend the March of Dimes, all of the affiliates throughout the country that wrote their Congressmen and -women to vote in the affirmative to override the President. 
   I would like to thank those 501(c)(3) organizations. The lifeblood of their effort is through volunteers throughout America, and when they come in to volunteer for the March of Dimes, when they come in to volunteer for the Children's Defense Fund, I mean, all the different groups that are out there to do what they do on a daily basis that help this country be what it is today, I thank those individuals, because I don't want them to lose faith in the fact that we're not going to have their back. We're going to have their back. When I say ``we,'' those of us that voted to override the President today. 
   I don't wake up every morning saying, hey, you know, I'm getting ready to go to the Capitol. We're going to override the President on a bill, on the children's health care bill or on making sure that we have sound policy in Iraq. I don't wake up on those days saying that I look forward to that opportunity. I don't look forward to that opportunity. I'd much rather us work in a bipartisan way to where we can move in that direction. 
   Well, let's look at the bill. The SCHIP bill received, I believe, 45 votes and the first time it came through here, that's bipartisan. Received, I believe, 14-plus votes in the Senate. Someone correct me if I'm wrong. That's bipartisan, Republican Members coming over and voting with Democrats to be able to move that bill through the process. That's bipartisan. 
   It gets to the President, all of a sudden it's partisan. Democratic Congress sent, no, it was a bipartisan Congress that sent him a children's health care bill. In the Senate, ORRIN HATCH, I mean, major Republicans are over there saying that the President's wrong and they had the votes, and they still do, to override the President of the United States. They have the votes over there. 
   In the House, we had a majority of votes, beyond a simple majority. We went well into, fell short 13 votes because Republican, on the Republican side of the aisle, 154 Republicans decided to stick with the President and not with the poor children in the United States of America. 
   I say all of that to say this: we would not have accomplished as much as we've accomplished, when I say ``we,'' the 110th Congress, if it wasn't for a bipartisan spirit and allowing, not only Democrats, but also Republicans to have bills that they should feel good about when they vote for those bills. 
   Now, we talked about minimum wage passed on this floor. It was offered when we were in the minority in the last Congress, but never made it to the floor, never made it to a committee hearing. 
   The 9/11 recommendations, 9/11 Commission, great Americans put together a great document. It was a book, one of the best-selling books. And the President said he wasn't going to sign that. In a bipartisan way we passed that. Sent it to the President. He had to sign it. 
   And all of these signing opportunities, I don't call them ceremonies. You know, they usually kind of happen like on a Friday, you know, folks leaving town, about to go to Camp David, not going to make a big deal on his way out, just sign it into law instead of celebrating the bipartisan spirit we have here in the Congress and sending that legislation on. 
   Cutting student loan interest rates in half. That meant $4,400 in the pockets of the individuals that have taken out the loans. And who are they? Children or young people that are trying to educate themselves to help us to be a stronger America and a more professional America so we can compete against other countries. It's not all about lock and load and shooting at someone. It's about making sure that we continue to stay the economic superpower of the world and to be able to provide the leadership in the world as it relates to a shining example of how one can educate him or herself and become all they want to be in the industry that they want to be, or provide a job to allow other Americans to work. 
   The President said he wasn't going to sign that. Thank you to the American people, thank you to the Members going back, talking to their constituents, thank you for all of those mothers and grandparents that wrote and e-mailed and said this is wrong, and that we want, if you want, you know, there's so many times we feel that we know what to do best here in Washington, D.C. because we understand what you need. 
   Well, guess what? $4,400 in the pockets that they don't have to pay on interest rates, because the student loan companies were pocketing those dollars. We allowed those dollars to stay in the pockets of those individuals paying on the interest rate on those student loans; and they know what's best.  
   And guess what? I'm talking to independent voters too. I'm talking to Republican voters too. No one said, well, you know, based on my card, do I get it or not? No, not even based on your income. You get a student loan, you can be an individual punching in and punching out every day making the minimum wage, or you can be a family, a single parent, or you can be a two-parent household with a gross income of $200,000, a household income of $200,000 and you still get that $4,400. And I think it's important, the President said he wasn't going to do it; he did it. 
   Now I'm asking the Members of Congress to stand in there on behalf of these children, not by their doing, but due to the fact that parents are trying to provide a way of life for them, and their only penalty is the fact that they can't afford health care. That's the only penalty that they have. 
   We have children that we're sending up to the military academies who cannot pass the tests, not the academic tests, not the fact that they didn't have the GPA to go to the Air Force Academy or to be able to go the Citadel or what have you. It's because they couldn't 
   pass their physical because they didn't know they had a situation that could have been corrected to where they can be one of our best and brightest within our military and they're not able to do it because they don't have what they need to have. 
   The school lunch program started in World War II because kids were not healthy enough to be able to go into the military because they didn't have the very nutrients that they need to be able to function and grow up here in America. And that's the reason why we have that program today. 
   So when we started looking at things in a broader picture, I think it's very, very, important, Members, that we pay attention to the present. The 109th, 108th Congress I was a Member of. Before that, my mother was here 10 years prior to my arrival here in Congress. I paid very close attention to her movements, member of the Appropriations Committee, spent a lot of time trying to help a lot of people here in the United States of America. I am glad that it was a broad perspective versus a small perspective of saying, well, I need to stand with a person, with the President of the United States because he said he should not have his veto overridden. And I want to thank, he has a very good legislative staff that comes down here and talks to the Members and says, you know, you need to stick with the President, stick with the President. 
   Meanwhile, we had all these volunteers on the side of overriding the President, on the side of children's health care, that spent their own money, Mr. Speaker, to come here to Washington, D.C., walk the Halls. Thank God the Speaker had enough wisdom and the majority leader had enough wisdom to say we're going to postpone the vote to allow those most affected, those that can afford to come to Washington or go to the district office of Members of Congress and the Senate and say please vote on behalf of children's health care because the President's wrong. 
   It's nothing wrong with being wrong sometimes, but not all the time. And I think it's important that when we look at this whole children's health care bill, I'm reading some articles about, well, you know, the Congress and the President, they need to sit down and come together on the line of compromise. And you know something? In Iraq, the President stands right at one point here on an issue and says this is it; this is what I'm going to do; this is how I'm going to do it and have enough Republicans to be able to stand with him so we can't be able to, well, if we pass a bill it will not be successful because he will veto the bill and it will come back here and then we'll fall 13 votes short. He stands firm, and then we have to end up having to work out some sort of compromise. 
   I'm going to tell you, I hope that this story, like I said, you have the story and the glory of everything. I hope as we continue to write this story and providing children the kind of health care, poor children the kind of health care that they deserve, that we stand. And when I say ``we,'' the Democrats, the Democratic Caucus that voted to override the President, and the 44 Republicans that voted with us to give us the numbers that we needed. 
   And it's not just what I'm saying. It's what the Congressional Record is saying. And it's what roll call vote No. 982 says. It says that 44 Republicans and 229 Democrats voted in the affirmative, a total of 273 versus 156 who voted against. So I think it's very, very important that we look at this and that Members pay attention to what's happening. 
   What side of history do you want to be on? What side of opportunity do you want to be on? And I think that's something that the Members are going to have to take into strong consideration. 
   I'm happy that the President signed bills that he said he wasn't going to sign. But it wasn't only because of our doing. It was because the American people mobilized and said, well, I know I am going to have my opportunity on a given Tuesday every other year to vote for my representation in Washington; but they mobilized to say that I have faith in this democracy and I'm going to continue to talk to Members of Congress of the importance of the children's health care bill. 
   And I'm asking for those Americans that took that time out to come to Washington, D.C., called, e-mailed, wrote letters, I want to commend them for doing the work that they did. It was the same group, the same volunteerism that came up out of the ground, literally, when the President wanted to privatize Social Security, and a good majority of Republicans on that time was in the majority, rose up and said, well, we want to go with the President on the private accounts and privatizing. It was that same volunteer American spirit that stopped that movement. 
   So we can make something good happen here on behalf of children that are needing health care. 
   As I move into the close here, Mr. Speaker, and as I was here on the floor and I was listening to the Speaker close, I think that it's important the value of Members playing a very strong role in facts, not fiction. And I was proud to see, you know, there's a lot being said and people were saying different things. And there were some folks that said that, you know, on the Republican side, well, there's going to be funding for illegal aliens in the SCHIP bill. Well, that's not the case. That just wasn't the case. 
   And I'm glad that the Speaker brought this chart down here, and I asked for this chart when I came to the floor because I thought it was very, very important. Section 605, page 255, right here, right here, and I think it's important, maybe we put it on www.speaker.gov for not only the Members to see this and highlight it like this. So you go down to line 16, section 605, no Federal funding for illegal aliens. Period. So as I look through the Congressional Record, Mr. Speaker, with my highlighter I could go through almost, when I hear from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, because they had very little to hold on to, I mean, how do you wake up in the morning and you say, well, I'm waking up this morning to deny 10 million children health care. Poor, at that. That's what I'm waking up to do this morning.     
   Or do you say ``I'm waking up this morning to stand with the President on denying 10 million poor children health care''? Or do you say, ``Well, maybe I can come up with this one: Somebody said it and I'm going to continue to say it, illegal aliens are going to receive health care from this bill, so that's the reason why I can't vote for it'' when the law says that it doesn't? 
   I mean, I hope that the volunteers continue to talk to the 154 Republicans that voted against this. ``Well, families that make $83,000,'' that is not the case and the facts are right here. ``These very wealthy families are going to get a government benefit,'' that is not the case. And I think it's important that we continue to shed light on this. 
   I think there should be some sort of meter here on the floor, to be honest with you, fact versus fiction, so that as Members come to the floor and they start talking and the meter starts moving over to the fiction side of it, then other Members will know how to judge what's accurate and what's not accurate. I think that would be very important because I think there will be  better policymaking and there will be fewer excuses why people didn't vote for certain bills. 
   I am not going to say that I'm mad. I'm just saying that I am disappointed. But the good thing about it, 14 years in public service, some of those years in the State legislature in Florida, 5 of those years, going on 6, here in Congress, there are votes that I remember. And this will be one of the votes that I will remember for the rest of my public career as long as the people from the 17th District will have me here from Florida, the day that we fell 13 votes short, not because of the lack of effort, not because we did not have the bipartisan spirit blowing through the air conditioning ducts here in the Chamber, not because there wasn't bipartisan input in the writing of the legislation need it be House or Senate, but because 13 Members out of 154 decided not to vote in affirmation. 
   I think it is also important to note, Mr. Speaker, that as we leave and we come back here, I believe, on Monday and we will be voting at 6:30, I hope that the Members engage their constituents on their vote, need it be against or for providing health care to poor children. I think that there should be a line of questioning as one walks through the airport when they get back home. Some of those volunteers out there should ask, ``Congressman, how did you vote on overriding the President when he vetoed health care for 10 million poor children here in the United States?'' I just want to make sure that one can answer that question with great accuracy. They may miss their flight or their connecting flight or they may even miss the ride home because it's going to be a long discussion. How can you be on the other side of 270 organizations that are not partisan organizations, that are nonpartisan organizations, that are 501(c)3s, that are doctors, that are nurses, that are children's organizations, the different organizations and associations that have been created to be here for this very time to educate all of us on those disparities as it relates to health care, to expand the opportunity for 10 million children to have health care and deny it? 
   There was a bunch of name calling here in Washington, D.C. The President called it socialized medicine. What is socialized medicine? To sit up here and say ``socialized medicine'' after running up a $1.19 trillion debt from foreign nations on a war and other things, tax cuts for the superwealthy, that more than 42 Presidents before him and $1.01 trillion from 1776 to 2007 couldn't do. 
   You take out your veto pen only one time, one time in the first term when we had a Republican Congress, one time, and that was on stem cell research. And now, all of a sudden, you have a veto pen connected to your index finger in your right hand, walking around, waiting on bipartisan bills passing through this Congress, Democrats and Republicans voting on these bills and sending them to you. And as soon as they get there, you want to veto them and then say something like the Congress is not doing what it's supposed to do. 
   When I was in the 109th Congress, I would already be home. We would probably vote 1 or 2 days out of the week and then we would go home. Now we're putting in the work, broke the record, 982 roll call votes and the year is not even over yet and we have a lot of work to do. Meanwhile, we have to take these votes to try to override the President. We could have been focused on another issue here today. We could have been focused on some of the appropriation bills that we were waiting to get through the process that we can't get through the process at this point. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, I'm glad that I had the opportunity to come down to the floor on this Thursday evening. I look forward to continuing to work with the bipartisan coalition, with the volunteer coalition in moving this issue forward. I look forward to listening to what Members are going to say in the press as to the reason why they voted for health care for children, which I am pretty sure can be a one-liner, versus those of the 13 votes that we fell short here on this floor in overriding the President and the 154 that voted against today, the dissertation that they have to write on the reason why they voted against children's having health care today. 
   I want to thank the work of not only the members of the committee but the staff here in working so hard here in Congress in trying to provide the health care that is needed. 
   I close with this, what I shared maybe about 20 minutes ago, Mr. Speaker: In the legislative process there's a great story. At the end, there is glory once we are able to provide 10 million children with health care. So as we write this story, the good thing about America is its okay to say maybe I took the wrong vote and I have made some mistakes. I will tell you, Mr. Speaker, I have made some mistakes the years I have been in public service thus far, going on 14 years. I have taken some votes and later I said next time I have the opportunity, I'm going to vote the right way. I know more because I studied a little bit more. I have heard some input from both sides. And that's just the human spirit. I mean, that's fine. That happens. But when you have so much information and it is so clear and the evidence is there to show that we have States that are going to be running close to their program ending and children are not going to have health care and we are sitting here trying to override the President and we fall short 13 votes not because of the lack of will, not because of the lack of desire, it's because of whatever reason that those Members of Congress decided not to override the veto. The Senate has the votes to override. In the House we did not have it, and 154 of my Republican colleagues voted against our doing that. And I think that is very important to note. Again, it's not politics; it's just the facts. And the facts are what they are. And when that roll call vote took place today, which I am pretty sure you will see printed today, roll call vote 982, it may very well be the vote that may give us some new Members of Congress here that may very well provide the kind of leadership that we need. But we cannot wait on that to happen because children will be denied health care, poor children will be denied health care. 
   Mr. Speaker, it was an honor to address the House, and I want to thank the majority leader for allowing me to have the hour. 
   I know that the story will continue. We look forward to the glory. And I want to ask those that are pushing to continue to push, and I believe we will make it to where poor children will be able to receive the health care that they deserve and this country should provide. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to come before the House once again. I am glad to be here with my good friend Mr. Altmire. 
   As you know the 30-Something Working Group, we come to the floor weekly, talk about issues that are facing the Nation, and also give a report on  what's happening and what's not happening. We are hoping to do good things on behalf of the American people, and we hope that we can build a relationship with our colleagues on the other side of the aisle, the Republican side of the aisle, to help pass the American agenda. 
   Mr. Altmire and I usually have some opening comments, and then we usually get into a conversation about some of the issues that we are facing this week, about some of the ongoing issues. 
   Over the weekend, I took the opportunity, because Mr. Altmire, Mr. Ryan, Ms. Wasserman Schultz and Mr. Murphy, who are part of the 30-something Working Group, we do meet, and we talk about issues that we want to bring before the Members. 
   I can tell you there are 47 major measures that have passed this floor with a bipartisan vote of 79 percent, so that means that 75 percent of the issues that have passed this floor have had bipartisan support. 
   I see that we have one of our charts here to show, under the Democratic Congress, that Republicans all along, we were saying in the 109th, 108th Congress, some of them really wanted to vote for the priorities of America and move this in a new direction. 
   But obviously the Republican leadership in the 109th, 108th, going back even further, did not want to bring those issues to the floor. But when they were brought to the floor, the 9/11 Commission Recommendations, H.R. 1, passed with 299 votes with 68 Republicans voting affirmative; raising the minimum wage, H.R. 2, again, passed 315, passed with 315 votes here with 82 Republicans voting along with Democrats. 
   The funding to enhance stem cell research, H.R. 3, 257 and 37 Republicans; making prescription drugs more affordable, H.R. 4, 24 Republicans joined the majority of Democrats, passing that measure by 255; cutting student loan interest rates in half, H.R. 5, 356 votes in favor, passed the House with 124 Republicans joining the Democratic leadership on that vote.     
   And creating long-term energy initiatives, H.R. 6, 264, with 36 Republicans. 
   And Mr. Speaker, I think it's also important to be able to outline the fact that we want to move in a new direction. And so far, the President has signed the following: The first increase in the minimum wage in almost a decade, which will take effect on July 24 of this year. This is not fiction; it's fact. And it will be fully phased in. It will mean a raise of $4,400. 
   And also, we passed tax incentives to be able to help small businesses; $3.7 billion in additional emergency funding for veteran and military health care. This is $3.4 billion in additional funds for military readiness also, including armored vehicles and also to meet the National Guard shortfalls that they have been experiencing over some time. 
   Emergency funding to keep hundreds and thousands of children in 11 States from losing their health care. That's very significant. 
   Overdue funding to repair and complete flood areas of Louisiana and Mississippi, and also, assisting other gulf coast communities, schools and universities to rebuild and recover from Hurricane Katrina Rita and also Wilma. 
   Overdue disaster aid to American families and ranchers, more than 80 percent of the funding that they were looking for they were able to receive through this Democratic Congress. 
   Emergency wildfire funding, to be able to assist communities that have been waiting on Federal response, and also benchmarks for the Iraqi government and requiring the President to report the progress of the war to the Congress more than two times. 
   I think it's important to also state the many of the things that we've done here in the House, Mr. Speaker, without needing Presidential approval. We restored pay-as-you-go budget discipline for the first time in 6 years in Washington and received praise from major fiscal watchdog groups. 
   Also, passed a budget balanced by 2010 with no more deficit spending and no taxes after 2 years of Republican leadership failure to agree on a budget. 
   I think it's also important that we outline that we've imposed very strict ethics rules in the history of the House; also guaranteed that the House will operate as a green Capitol. I'm glad we have the chair of the Appropriations Committee that deals with the House, House Administration with us, the chairwoman. 
   Also, the Speaker has convened a National Summit on America's Children, and we're beginning to link Federal policy and law and cutting-edge research as relates to bring development; and also restored Congressional oversight, saving tens of millions of dollars that are being wasted here. 
   I think it's important that we also outline that stem cell research bill, supported by two out of three Americans, which offers hope for many, many families, is sitting on the President's desk right now waiting for action, Mr. Speaker. 
   And also, a bill ending the politicizing of the appointments of U.S. attorneys. 
   I can go on and on, but I think, as it relates to an opening, I think we're off to a great start, Mr. Speaker. And I think it's also important for the Members to realize that, for us to not only end the war in Iraq, but for us to be able to fulfill the dreams and the needs of the American people and those that are in harm's way, that we have to move in a bipartisan way. And when we can't move in a bipartisan way, then we have to take the majority of this Democratic majority that we have now to be able to get 218 votes to be able to carry out the will of the people. 
   Later on, since Ms. Wasserman Schultz has joined us, and I know Mr. Altmire has something to add, too, I want to talk a little bit about the President's address, the President's radio address, because I think it's important that we address these issues as they come up. We should not allow any statement or any speech to go unchallenged because I think the American people, it's time for them to be leveled with. And I can't wait until this thing rolls around again, when we get into open discussion, because this is the good part about the 30-Something Working Group is that we do get an opportunity to kind of volley the ball around. 
   Mr. Altmire, Happy Father's Day, belated Father's day, sir. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, what they say and what we do are two different things. And the good thing about it is that right is on our side and the American people are on our side, be it Republican, Democrat, independent, those that are thinking about voting, those that may be voting for the first time in the 2008 elections. I think it is very important to lay the facts out, and that's what we are doing here tonight. 
   Mr. Speaker, we go through a great deal of work to make sure that we actually give facts, not fiction. And we know that there is a lot of fiction on this floor. That's what I would call it. And there is another word to call it, but I would just call it ``fiction'' to be honorable in this Chamber. But I think it is also important for us to just take the President's words for what they are. I am reading from his radio address, and this week, the President said the tax-and-spend approach is endangering the economic growth. And balanced budget efforts, mark ``efforts,'' balanced budget efforts, that's what he's calling it, that's what the President is calling it, as it relates to the budget, saying they have passed a budget that would mean higher taxes; put another line under ``higher taxes'' because I want to come back to that; for American families and job creators, put a line under that. 
   I think it's important, just in that paragraph alone, Mr. Speaker, for me to just dissect that for a moment. Let me just work on that paragraph just for a moment. It's just a paragraph within many, but it's at the beginning of the President's speech. I think it's important, as we start looking at fact versus fiction, I mean, we need to have a segment in the 30-Something group, fact versus fiction, because I think it's important that we do away with the fiction, because we have two wars going on. We have a country that's begging for health care. We have children that we were about to lose their health care if it wasn't for the action of the Democratic majority here to be able to push that effort along and put it on the President's desk for him to sign. 
   Now, let's just start with the whole piece of endangering and taxes. Listen, I'm on the Ways and Means Committee, and unless there is a meeting that I missed or several days that I missed from Congress, I haven't seen anything that dealt with a tax increase. And I would challenge anyone from the White House or from the minority side of this Chamber to point out somewhere, anywhere, where taxes are being increased. Okay. That's what I thought. I think it is very, very important that we pay very close attention to what's being said here on this floor. 
   I think it's also important for us to underline ``budget balancing efforts.'' People, Mr. Altmire, they don't want an effort; they want it to happen. Okay? One of the first things we did without the President's approval, thank God we didn't need it, to say that we're going to move pay-as-you-go rules and that we are no longer going to borrow from foreign nations. As soon as I can get my chart over here, I will pull it over, of how much money we have borrowed from foreign nations, Mr. Speaker, more than ever before in the history of the republic. As a matter of fact, I have my old chart here. I will use this one, Ms. Wasserman Schultz. For folks here in the Chamber, you know that this is an old chart. And I am really fond of this chart. The rubber stamp is in my office under lock and key because somehow my velcro chart somehow grew legs and it went somewhere. And I don't know where it is, Mr. Altmire, but I think it's important that we find that chart. I'm going to put pictures around the Capitol. Have you seen the out-of-control borrowing that the Bush Administration and Republican Congress were able to do in the past? 
   Remember this chart here? And it talked about, it went all the way through 2005? Well, I am going to draw a line through that right now. And I know that we are going to have a new chart here on the floor, because our good people that work with us here, the new number that comes at the end of the 109th Congress and the Republican Congress, this number is no longer 1.50; it is now $1.0019 trillion that the President Bush and the old Republican Congress passed under the rubber stamp policy of the Congress of the past, but not now; $1.01 trillion, 42 Presidents before this President and the past Republican Congress, and between the two, they were able to borrow from foreign nations, these are foreign nations who I have outlined on the next chart, $1.0019 trillion. Historical. Never happened before. No one can point to World War I and World War II. 
   Who are we borrowing from that we are putting a stop to here in this Democratic Congress? Let's just start with Japan at $644.3 billion. Let's look over at China, Red China of all places, at $349.6 billion. These numbers are old. Many other countries are involved in this. And, you know, that is just one sentence. 
   Then we move on, ``They have passed a budget that will mean higher taxes for American families and job creators.'' Now, I have already addressed the issue of higher taxes. Taxes have not been raised. 
   So for the President to say this means that it's fiction. That's the word I choose. Job creators. Who's he talking about? Must be talking about Big Oil. I guess they're creating all kinds of jobs. I know there are a lot of people that are trying to figure out how they are going to get to their job, paying the high prices. 
   And look at the profits. Wow. And it's funny, remember that little thing I talked about, the meeting at the White House, and Vice President Cheney with the executives, and then all of a sudden  the energy bill was written? And it was almost like every oil executive, somehow they figured out the six numbers to the Lotto. That Lotto happened to be the payoff by the American people. And their stock went skyrocketing up. In 2002, the profits were $6.5 billion in profits. And look, 2007, $30.2 billion, and you're paying almost $3 at the pump. I wonder who the job creators are. And we took some of these incentives and give-aways away, or so-called incentives, that were just tax giveaways of the taxpayers' money back into finding alternative fuels. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. You know, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and thank you for yielding back. 
   Mr. Altmire, this is why we come to work, this is why we, Members of Congress, Mr. Speaker, to be able to point out, and I love this whole fact versus fiction. You know, this is probably going to be my new top ten because I think it's important that we outline these issues. Because the American people, hopefully what we are sharing with them, it's fact. Now, folks start writing speeches and start saying, well, what sounds better or using words like efforts, you know ``efforts'' is open-ended.     
   Well, you know, I make a great effort to do some things around the house. But eventually I will get around to them. Well, we are dealing with the Federal Treasury, and it is not some sort of slush fund. That is the way it has been treated. We are talking about accountability. 
   I also want to point out Mr. Bob Novak, I don't think I am on his Kwanzaa list and he is not on mine, but he is one of the most conservative writers here in this town and well-known, and I appreciate his work, and we see him moving around on Sunday talk shows. 
   This is interesting. ``Bush veto strategy.'' This is in the Washington Post. Just in case, we like third-party validators. We want you to go on, we want Members to be able to go on WashingtonPost.com. And this was June 18. It was actually on A-17, if you have an old copy of the Washington Post. 
   I will go down to paragraph three, where it talks about Bush was the first President since John Quincy Adams not to exercise his veto power during the complete 4-year term, even though the Republican-controlled Congress was on a spending spree. 
   All right, we have heard of shopping sprees. You look in the dictionary, let's just do it. Let's do it because we can. Let's do it because we can borrow from foreign nations and put this country in a posture that it has never been in before. 
   He has two bills in his second term, rejecting only the Iraq war bill, since the Democrats took control. 
   Let me just say this. One of them was that. Let me just point that out, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Altmire. It is important that we outline that, that we outline the fact that the President has had a rubber-stamp Congress, and that even the conservative writers are saying, wait a minute. All of a sudden now you want to be Mr. Veto. You want to send a letter to the Speaker of the House saying if you go $1 over my projected budget and I am going to veto the bill, even if it means healthcare for children, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, even if it means better healthcare for our veterans that are coming back and that are here and that are waiting in line 8 or 9 weeks to see the ophthalmologist, which is not what they signed up for and not the promise that we gave them. Even if it means that school districts will not have the money that they deserve as it relates to the Federal dollar. 
   The bottom line is I wish the President and I wish the Republican side had the kind of courage to stand up to corporate America when they were giving away all of the taxpayers' money during their spending spree. This is now what I am saying. This is what Bob Novak is saying. 
   I think it is also important to note that one of our Republican colleagues took enough time to get 147 votes against the Homeland Security bill, an appropriations bill, and also it is important that we point this out, because this was done to be able to say that we can withstand a veto. I think it is 146 that is needed to make sure that we can override the President if we need to override him. 
   The last point I want to make on this topic, you know I always have a number of points, but after we passed the bill that the American people wanted, date on redeployment of when troops will be redeployed out of the field and letting the Iraqi government know we will not be in the middle of a civil war forever and ever and ever, and passed this House and it passed the Senate. And before the President could even get to it, Republicans marched down to the White House, had lunch, and came out and said, ``We stand with the President in not overriding his veto. We say that we stand with the President.'' 
   That is what the Republicans said. Not one Democrat was at the White House. I want to know how many more times that Republicans are going to go down to the White House and stand with the President. Are they going to stand in front of VA Healthcare? Are they going to stand in front of universal healthcare for children? Are they going to stand in front of everything that we came to Congress to do? And I talking about Democrats and Republicans? 
   And I am just going to say it, not every Republican went to the White House, but enough to be able to stop us from doing the business of the people of this country. And I think it is important that we outline these issues. Go to WashingtonPost.com. 
   There is an old saying out there, if I am lying, I am flying. The bottom line is this: It is right here. I didn't write it. Mr. Novak wrote it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. I would like to thank Mr. Altmire and Ms. Wasserman Schultz. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have to remember that $2 billion-plus a week are being spent in Iraq as we are here trying to resolve issues that we don't have money to resolve them. 
   Also I think it is important, at the top of the hour I meant to give this report, but as of this morning, June 18, 2007, at 10 a.m. the death total in Iraq is 3,517. Wounded in action and returned to duty is 14,283. Wounded in action and not returning to duty is 11,667. I think it is important that we share that with the Members constantly. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am also asking Members, I am trying to find a picture and I have been looking high and low for somebody to e-mail us a picture of this great White House meeting that the President had with the Republicans standing behind him saying they won't participate in overriding his veto of accountability in Iraq. I need that picture because we need that to be a chart so that we can discourage our friends on the other side of the aisle from going down and standing in the schoolhouse door on behalf of the majority of Americans' priorities. 
   Mr. Speaker, it was an honor to address the House once again. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to address the House, and I will concur with my colleague, Ms. Sheila Jackson-Lee, in honoring the legacy and memory of Dr. Martin Luther King and his contributions, and I must add Ms. Coretta Scott King and the entire King family and the King Institute in Atlanta, Georgia. This country will be forever grateful for the contributions of the King family and those who carry their memory. 
   Many of us know that Ms. Jackson-Lee is going to have a special order on Tuesday. Many of us know that service is the way the King family wanted us to address this upcoming Monday, being able to carry out not only public service, which is random acts of goodwill throughout the country and your community where you live, but especially the day that we recognize his birthday. For his birthday to have birth here on this House floor and in this Congress is recognized as a Federal holiday, is something that this Congress should always hold on to. 
   I yield to the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson-Lee). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so much, Ms. Jackson-Lee. I know that many Members of Congress hopefully on both sides of the aisle will be joining you during your special order in recognition of the contributions of Dr. King and the entire King family, including Ms. Coretta Scott King. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want to take an opportunity to come down, and I have already given comments on the memory and legacy of Dr. King and the entire family for the record, and I know that that will be entered. I wanted to come to the floor just to sum up this week. 
   As you know, those of us in the 30-Something Working Group, we work to not only let the Members know what the Congress is doing and what we are leading in the direction of that the American people would like for us to go in in all areas, need it be defense, need it be standing up on behalf of our most vulnerable members of our society, our children and our elderly, those that have put forth opportunities so that we would have a better America. When we think about and reflect just on the last few hours here in the House and we reflect on what happened last week and the beginning of this week, I can't help but what we say in the Baptist Church, since I am Baptist, testify for a moment. 
   I have been in Congress now two terms. I believe we have done more in the last week and one or two days than we have done in a very long time as it relates to the 109th and 110th Congress. 
   I come today to report, because I know that some would say that while everything is happening and everything is going in reverse and people are not being included and goodness gracious, why didn't we have 10,000 hours of committee work, well, I would just say for everything that has passed, it seems like the American people are happier and pleased with the way this Congress is moving with its work. 
   I just want to make sure, because you can't say it enough, because it is important that the record is correct. When Members come to the floor, it is important that Members reflect on what they say before they come to the floor. 
   This is America. You are elected from your district. You can come and voice your opinion, not only of your constituents, but of all Americans, but I think it is important when we look at the Congressional Record that we are as accurate as possible. 
   Historians will look back at this time and say, let me see what took place during that time in this country's history. I think it is important that the American people know that even though we represent individual districts, like I represent Miami Dade County and Broward County in Florida, I have to make sure that I carry not only the will of the people from that district, but also the American people. That is the reason why we have to make sure that the Members are informed of what actually took place, in case some forgot, and that the American people know what is going on. I say all of that to lay the facts out, and the facts are the facts. 
   The fact is that in the last Congress, the 109th Congress and the Congress before that one, the American people were very disappointed in what was not taking place, Mr. Speaker. It so great we have a 30-Something Working Group in this U.S. House of Representatives. I think I said the last time we were on the House floor, I believe just the night before last, we said we didn't create this 30-Something Working Group just to get in the majority. We didn't create the 30-Something Working Group, thanks to the Speaker, who then was minority leader at that time. We wanted to make sure the American people and the Members of this Congress knew that we wanted to work in a bipartisan way towards tackling the issues that the American people wanted us to tackle and represent them and not the special interests. 
   Now, there are some folk that are still on the other side of the aisle that are disappointed that the American 
   people are getting what they have been asking for, need it be polling or what have you. I can tell you, some of my friends on the other side, a lot of my friends on the other side agree with us, and when I say ``us,'' I am saying the Members on the Democratic side, on issues that are bipartisan. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it is important for us to reflect on the fact that there are some Members on the majority side that have been asking for that all along. A majority of the Members on the minority side have been asking for bipartisanship. Now we have it. 
   Now you have the minority party, or the minority leadership, I must add, on the Republican side, they are so concerned that so many of their Members are working in a bipartisan way. It is not because they like the Democratic Members on the majority side. It is because they are voting on behalf of their constituents. 
   Well, what is wrong with that? I came down to the floor because, you know, I was with my daughter and we are in the office, it is the end of the  week, we are about to get some things together, and I said, you know, I want to continue to have the minority spirit that I had in the 108th and the 109th Congress, to say that this is historic in recent times, and working in a bipartisan manner. 
   Now, if I wasn't serious about bipartisanship and if the Democratic leadership wasn't serious about bipartisanship, I wouldn't be here. We are serious about this. We have got work to do. We don't have time to sit around here and say, I come here with a donkey hat on and say I am a Democrat and hail to the Democrats, whatever, you know. Bow down, what have you. We are in charge, and, you know, walking around here and looking important and not saying ``hello'' when I walk by people in the hall. That is not what this is about. 
   This is about working in a bipartisan way on behalf of the American people. I am so glad the Democratic leadership has embraced that. I am so glad that all Democrats here on this floor have embraced that. 
   I am also very pleased and glad that many of the Republicans have embraced that. Maybe not their leadership, because as far as I am concerned, on many of the issues that we passed on this floor a good number of Republicans have voted for it in this past week, Mr. Speaker and Members, but the Republican leadership are not voting for it. 
   Why? They want to show the difference between us and them. Well, we are not in the business of us and them anymore. And I think it is important that the American people and the Members understand that there is a public out there that is paying attention. There is a public out there. We have an escalation of troops out there now. 
   Well, we are going to separate the Members of Congress from the followers. Members are going to have to have a choice in what they want to be. We have to stand up on behalf of the people that have elected us and federalized us to serve in this U.S. House of Representatives on their behalf. 
   Mr. Speaker, case in point. I will just make my point with this, and I would move on to other things. I think it is important that we understand in adopting the rules of the 110th Congress, there were many carrying on and saying, well, why do we have to do that? We have a new set of rules and we want to be better than you, when the Republican leadership had an opportunity to set those rules. 
   Mr. Speaker, I hold in my hand four pages of how under Republican control on more than 14 or 15 or even 20 examples, as a matter of fact, it is not four pages, it is six pages, of how Democrats were blocked, how Democrats weren't even allowed to offer amendments. House votes were held open for 3 hours, making U.S. history on behalf of special interests while they twisted arms. That is the past. 
   I got it right here. If any Member wants to come down on the floor and debate me on this, we can get a time and talk about this, because, you know something, we are right on this one. The people are right. 
   So, if you want to talk, these are the facts. The CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, you can go and cite it, because we in the 30-Something Working Group on this side of the aisle, we don't talk fiction, we talk fact, because that is the only thing that will hold up; not only the test here on this floor but the test of the American people, that challenge. 
   I want to commend some of the Republicans and all of my caucus for voting for some of the good things. The rules of the House, like I was mentioning, 232 Democrats with one Democrat not voting because they weren't here on the rules of the House. 
   Forty-eight Republicans joined us on PAYGO, which brought about the kind of accountability that we needed in this House to be able to stop the out-of-control spending that the Republican Congress has built up. That was this chart. There are so many people that are familiar with this. The record, $1.05 trillion that was spent under Bush and the Republican Congress in just 4 years, that trumped 42 presidents and 224 years of history. $1.01 trillion.     
   That vote started moving this in reverse, Mr. Speaker, saying that we would no longer spend, and I wouldn't even say the Federal tax dollars because we borrow from all of these countries to carry out that out-of-control spending, which we put together this chart to show all of the countries that we owe because of reckless spending and not living under PAYGO rules, pay-as-we-go rules. And so I think that is important for the Members to know and reflect upon. So if it was so bad, Mr. Speaker, why did 48 Republicans vote for it? 
   Now, I can tell you right now, I am pretty sure there are Members on the other side saying I am not voting with Democrats just to vote with Democrats. They are voting because that is what their constituents want. And if we are to work in a bipartisan way, I think it is important for them to continue to join us on great ideas. There will be times when there will be partisan votes on this floor, but they should be few, especially when it comes down to issues of the Federal Treasury. 
   Mr. Speaker, on implementing the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, we were here on this floor talking time and time again about following the bipartisan commission report on making America safer. What is wrong with screening containers coming into this country before making it to U.S. ports? What is wrong with making sure we carry out all of the 9/11 recommendations? This was 9/11. We went to the war in Afghanistan, running after al-Qaeda and doing away with the Taliban because of 9/11. 
   Now, 9/11 Commission members and the American people, Democrats, Republicans and independents, are happy that we voted on this. Again, all the Democrats voted for it, with 68 Republicans voting for it. Mr. Speaker, that is the reason why we have some Members on the other side of the aisle running to the floor complaining. They are not complaining because they happen to be upset with us, and when I say us, I mean the Democrat majority, they are complaining because their Members are voting for their constituents. 
   I am sure there are Republican Members that are saying, I am a member of the Republican Caucus, I am not trying to caucus with the Democrats, but they are trying to represent their constituents. So let them. And so for the 68 Republicans who voted on behalf of the 9/11 recommendations, why not? It is protecting their constituents in America. Good for you. 
   So much work has been done, very little talk but so much work, on the minimum wage. Mr. Speaker, I cannot say enough about this. We have the charts from the 109th Congress, because I think it is important that Members don't get amnesia. We have a lot of new Members trying to figure out how to get around the office buildings here in Washington, D.C. I have been here now going on my third term, and I am still trying to figure out a few things myself, but I think it is important when it comes down to the business of the House, and you want to stay in the House and you want to have this honor to represent not only the people in your district but the American people, and you want to do right on behalf of the American people, then it is important, Mr. Speaker, that we share this good information not only with the new Members but the present Members that have been here, because the American people have spoken. 
   Let me share these figures. These are the pay increases of Members of Congress. In 1998, $3,100; in 2000, $4,600; 2001, $3,800; 2002, $4,900; 2003, $4,700; 2004, $3,400; 2005, $4,000; and 2006, $3,100. 
   Now, here is the point that is very, very important, Mr. Speaker and Members. I am not here to say that, well, you know, this is not justified. Just as a Member who is financially challenged, like myself, I will tell you there are some Members here, this cost-of-living adjustment, whatever the case may be, maintaining two households, I don't want to make an argument there. But if Members felt it was important to give themselves a raise and at the point when you start getting in the back years, the Democrat leadership made the decision that we will not give ourselves a pay raise unless the American people get it because we are tired of fighting for a pay raise for them, yet when it comes to Members of Congress, please join us in making sure we get a cost-of-living adjustment. 
   We put our foot down. And now, this week, Mr. Speaker, we were able to  give the American people a pay raise. Not because Republicans said we should do it. It is because we have a Democratic controlled Congress. And that is the problem that some Members on the minority side have with progress on behalf of the American people. 
   It is going to be $7.25 that people are going to be making now. Believe it or not, we are going to get it passed in the Senate and the President will hopefully sign it. We had 82 Republicans that joined, and all the Democrats on this side of the aisle, in voting to increase the minimum wage. What we called the fair Minimum Wage Act. But, Mr. Speaker, the Republican leadership voted against it. 
   How do you jump on top of the head of somebody making $5.15 an hour? How do you stand on top of their head and say, well, you know, we can't do it because it is gonna hurt somebody. CEOs are making, oh, boy, they are making more than the minimum wage worker would make in their entire lifetime, Mr. Speaker. In some instances, in a month. Yet we have Members here standing on top of the head of folks making $5.25 an hour and still carrying on about the vote. 
   If it is so bad, Mr. Speaker, why did 82 Republicans join Democrats in voting for what was right? Why? Because they were representing their constituents. So I commend all my Democratic colleagues that have been waiting for an opportunity to vote on the floor on the minimum wage, and I commend the chairman, Mr. George Miller. I am glad he lived long enough to see this happen there in the Education and Labor Committee. 
   But 82 Republicans joined Democrats in that. And that is good and that is bipartisan and it was the right thing to do, and I am glad they did it. But I want to make sure, Mr. Speaker, while we are here setting the record straight, not only talking about the vision of the Democratic leadership and caucus but also talking about bipartisanship, because that is the reason why I came to the floor today, to talk about bipartisanship. That is the record. 
   I don't care what anyone else says. And I say again, these Republicans voted for this Democratic movement to raise the minimum wage because it was a part of our six in 2006 plan. Now, some may say, well, let's have a committee meeting. Well, goodness, let me just show you this, six pages, six pages where we did not have committee meetings. In the 108th Congress I saw with my own eyes a bill filed in the morning, went to the Rules Committee, and was on the floor and passed by 2 p.m., and then passed in the Senate and went to the White House the next day. For one person I watched it happen. 
   So don't come to the floor, especially when it comes down to something like the Federal minimum wage that will help workers throughout this country and start raising a ``yeah, but.'' It is progress. I think the people like it. I think that is why they elected us to come to Congress, to get something done. 
   Here is another point. The Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act. Why is the Republican minority so scared of this? I can't understand it. Well, I look at companies, and I look at HMOs, and I look at other folks that have price negotiating opportunities and they are trying to drive down the price with their little group that they are dealing with. And now we are saying, the Federal Government, let's get the Secretary to try to see if he or she can make this happen. What is the problem? I can tell you what the problem is, it is that 24 Republicans voted with all Democrats to make that happen. What is wrong with that? 
   While I talk about the fact that my Republican colleagues are joining us in bipartisanship, you have to commend the Democratic leadership on this side of the aisle for having the gumption to do what they said they would do. Now, that may seem like something very small in American households throughout the country, because usually when you say you are going to do something, you do it. You know, I tell my mother, I tell a family member that I am going to do something, I try my best to do it. But when I make a promise, I have got to do it. 
   We made a promise, and it is not a secret, that the minimum wage would be raised in the first 100 hours. We made a promise we would pass a package on ethics. We made a promise that we would make sure that we have price negotiations for prescription drugs. We made a promise, Mr. Speaker, that we would reverse royalties and other tax breaks to large oil companies and make sure that we have innovation in alternative fuels. We made a promise, Mr. Speaker, that we would reduce the student loan package; making sure that we reduce what the Republican Congress did, taking money to give to the super wealthy in this country a tax break. 
   We promised we would do these things. We promised, Mr. Speaker, that we would do this in the first 100 hours. Everyone knew it. It wasn't a secret. We promised that we would make sure we wouldn't de-fund the troops when they are in harm's way. The troops. Then all of a sudden you get this escalation in troops. 
   What is about to happen, Mr. Speaker, and I think the administration knows, and I think the minority party knows that we are about to have some committee meeting in a few minutes. We have just organized this Congress and we are going to start asking some of the tough questions. Where did this money go? Why was this company over here able to abuse this contract and nothing was said? Why are they still receiving Federal dollars? Why are these eight brigades of Army reservists going back to Iraq for a fifth term? Why don't we have other coalition partners joining us? Why won't we take the training wheels off the Iraqi government? All of these questions have to be answered. 
   I like the bipartisan spirit that is going through the floor as a Congress now, or in the halls of Congress. I think it is important that we continue to encourage that, Mr. Speaker and Members. And I think it is important that Members realize that, especially when they come to the floor to start talking about issues that are facing the American people. During the 109th Congress, one of the most partisan Congresses, which passed no bipartisan votes, this week we passed bills with 60, 70, 80 Republicans joining us on these votes. 
   So I think it is important, Mr. Speaker, that, again, we let the facts roll out. Again, I challenge my colleagues. And the reason why I can stand here with great confidence, Mr. Speaker, and the reason why I can even challenge some of my Republican colleagues or those outside of this great institution of ours, the House of Representatives, the people's house, is that I speak of the truth. If I wasn't speaking the truth, and if I wasn't citing the Congressional Record, you know, this notebook is just not a page on the top and newspaper in the middle. These are facts. 
   So as we move forth in this 110th Congress in a bipartisan way, and making America stronger and better for our children and grandchildren, let that happen. The Republican leadership can say whatever they want. We are in the majority. But you know something, we still have a minority spirit. The minority spirit is making sure that we fight on behalf of those who need representation in this House. Not the special interests. 
   The special interests have their representation, or they had it here in this House. And those that continue to carry the water on behalf of the special interests that are totally against or versus the American people, Mr. Speaker, because it is right, they will lose. And that is just where it is. 
   So when we start talking about the integrity of the U.S. House of Representatives, we start talking about the things we would like to do on behalf of the American people, then we are serious about it. Now, if folks want to be serious about coming and representing special interests against the will of the American people, have at it, because there are Members of this Congress, or former Members of this Congress, who did that. And guess what? They are reading what the Congress is doing in the newspaper when it is dropped on their front door. 
   I am not going to be a part of that group. I am here to make sure we represent the folk that sent us up here to represent them.     
   I think it is important that we remember that. Have faith in the American will. If every Member was to carry  themselves in the way the night that they were elected or the day that they were elected, of all the things they said they wanted to do before they got here, then this would be a better country. I think it is important, Mr. Speaker, that while we have that spirit, bipartisanship, let's continue it. Let's continue the spirit. It's not about being in the majority and we just want as a strategy to keep you in the minority, no, it's not a strategy to keep the Republicans in the minority. It's just representing the American people. They have had their opportunity to do it. They had the last 12 years to do it. They can't come here and say, we balanced the budget. All they can say is that we have deficits as far as the eye can see. 
   What did we do? First order of business, Mr. Speaker, not only passing a new rules package that cut out a lot of the stuff that went on in the 109th Congress, the 108th Congress, the 107th Congress, but we also passed the pay-as-you-go rule to make sure that we say we're going to spend it, we show how we're going to pay for it. 
   I can tell you right now, that is a paradigm shift coming from this side of the aisle that we have the only record in Congress in balancing the budget. We on this side of the aisle are the only party that can say that without one Republican vote that took place. When that happens again, Mr. Speaker, as we work through trying to dig out of the ditch that the Republican leadership put the American people in, we want to do it in a bipartisan way. We don't want history to repeat itself without one Republican vote we balanced the budget. We don't want that to happen. 
   When we deal with Social Security again, we want it to happen just like when Tip O'Neill was sitting in that seat, Mr. Speaker, and Ronald Reagan was in the White House. They got together in a bipartisan way and said, let's save Social Security together. We don't need to run around here with a flag that says Democrat and says, we did it and they didn't. Let's work together. Let's work together in making that happen. That is why it is very, very important, Mr. Speaker, that we work in this bipartisan spirit as we move forward. 
   Mr. Speaker, as we reflect on the past, I just wanted to come down to the floor and make sure that we set the record straight that there are a lot of things that happened and did not happen in the 109th and 108th Congress. I am only speaking for the Congresses that I have been here for. My mother before me served in the five Congresses before that, so there was a lot of dining room table talk about what was going on here in Congress or what wasn't going on here in Congress. But I can tell you as it relates to the Democratic side of the aisle and even the Republican side of the aisle, Members voting common sense, Members voting on behalf of their constituents back home, I like what I see. The American people like what they see. If we didn't like the bipartisanship, Mr. Speaker, there would be no reason to come to the floor and share ideas and plans with the Republican Members of the House because we said, well, we just want all the credit for what's happening right now. No, we share that in a bipartisan spirit and we stand on the mountain of bipartisanship in this new 110th Congress. 
   The Republican leadership is trying not to stand on that mountain of bipartisanship. They want to stand on the mountain of us against them. Well, this is the U.S. Congress. This is us. It's not us against them. That is a debate for somewhere else. But these major, major, major, major issues that I outlined here in the last 30 minutes, Mr. Speaker, are bipartisan issues that we should be able to join elbow to elbow and lock in together and work together on these issues. I look forward to dealing with this, working with not only the American people on these issues but also Members of Congress on dealing with this issue of doing away with this issue of partisanship on major issues. 
   I wanted to let my Democratic colleagues and leadership know that we are on the right track. We are on the right track and the reason why we are here in the U.S. Congress. We are on the right track in working on behalf of the American people, all of us. If someone tries to pull you away from voting otherwise, against your constituents, you need to share with them that you love being a Member of the U.S. Congress, want to continue being a Member of the U.S. Congress, because those who voted against the will of their constituents are no longer Members of Congress. That's something to take into consideration. 
   As we have talked about the minimum wage, Mr. Speaker, I am so glad to be joined by my colleague who represents the American Samoa islands. I want to thank him for being here. We have worked together over the last two Congresses. Before that he worked with my mother who was here. They are good friends. I am so glad you came down to the floor to join me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - January 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. There is so much going on right now that is working on behalf of the American people. There are some Members of the minority party that feel that they need to come to the floor and raise objection to that, with the blessings of the Republican leadership. Because when you come to the floor, you have to have the okay of the leadership of your side of the aisle. I went through earlier this afternoon about Republicans joining Democrats in these votes. This bipartisan spirit, that is the only way I can figure this out because the misinformation that is coming to the floor and that is being given out to the American people, Mr. Speaker, you represent the area that they are so concerned about and they don't even bother to pick up the phone and say, is this true or that true or even doing the research. You can look in the law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (Mr. Speaker, I would like to submit some documentation to be made part of the <b>RECORD</b>. -- (House of Representatives - January 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Thank you so very much. I am glad you came to the floor to share that. There is nothing like a representative of the American people that the Republican minority seems to be so concerned about all of a sudden, sharing misinformation, that the representative of the people comes to the floor to set the record straight. 
   The good thing about it is that we are in the majority right now, Mr. Speaker, and knowing that the issue will continue to receive the kind of attention it deserves, but making sure that mistruths are ironed out here in the Congressional Record, so that when we reflect on the facts, as I speak so fondly of, that we are on the right side of those facts. 
   I would also like to share with the Members, since we try to provide information to the Members, mainly, and hopefully we will get to the American people, we want to make sure that Americans stay tuned on behalf of the rest of this 100-hour agenda that we are carrying out right now, with the Student Loan Relief Act, which is on Wednesday; and repealing big oil subsidies, that will be coming up; and also investing in renewable fuels, that will be coming up. 
   All of this along these lines are going to make us a stronger America, a better America. These are issues, or issues that have been presented before Congress before, some of them passed on a committee level. Even some of them have passed in some amendatory form in a bigger package of legislation this House of Representatives, out of this House of Representatives. It should not be a surprise or a shock. 
   As I mention it here now, well before next week, I am pretty sure we will have some Members on the other side of the aisle who will come up and say, you know, I was walking down the hall and someone told me we were taking tax breaks away from the big oil companies. What happened to the hearing? 
   Well, I can tell you not only prior to the election, I know for sure I said it here on the floor in the last Congress, the 109th Congress, in the last Congress. If they did not know, if they did not know that this was going to take place, prior to the election, then I suggest you pick up a newspaper. 
   We notice that some people don't read the newspaper here in Washington D.C., but that is another commentary. But I am excited about the fact that we are getting some of these issues done. 
   We always encourage the Members to log onto www.speaker.gov. You can get any information that is coming up, if you want to learn more about the 100-hour agenda, but I would say if you want to e-mail the 30-Something Working Group, www.speaker.gov/30something, and you can send us information on things that you are concerned about or questions that you may have. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, I wanted to thank the Democratic leadership for allowing me to come down to the floor. The 30-Something Working Group will be back on floor next week. We want to not only ask Members but also staff and all Americans to celebrate the memory and the legacy of Dr. King and his entire family along with Mrs. Coretta Scott King for their contributions, not only to this country but to the world. 
   As we carry out this day of service that the King Center for the Advancement of Nonviolence calls for every year, try to create some sort of public service project within your family of something that you can do for somebody else, because that is what his philosophy was all about. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank my good friend from the Garden State. 
   It is interesting, Mr. Speaker, and I will point to this L.A. Times editorial since now the L.A. Times is an authority on this issue. The newspaper said it reluctantly endorsed the U.S. troop surge when it began. But at the bottom it says: ``We feel that the time has come now for us to leave Iraq.'' That is the L.A. Times. 
   I also want to point out another thing as we talk about this redeployment, a responsible redeployment, the act that is up before the House right now that we are considering. I just want to make sure the Members of the House know exactly what they are doing, because when they get back home in their districts and they start talking to the heroes and sheroes that have been deployed two to three times and talk to Americans about why they can't meet the needs that they have to meet here domestically, I want them to reflect on this: 
   I want them to look at the fact that you have $120 billion a year that we are spending in Iraq; per month, $10 billion; per week, $2.3 billion; per day, $329 million; per hour, $13 million since we have been here on the floor, Mr. Speaker; per minute, which I only have two, $228,000. And you have to look at per second, as I take a breath, $3,816. 
   Also, I want to point out to the Members here, Mr. Speaker, the last time we passed a measure on behalf of the men and women in harm's way and to send the message to the Iraqi Government, they can go on vacation and they don't meet and they don't do the things that we have put forth as benchmarks that they have to meet in a bipartisan way, then why should we reward bad behavior? 
   And I have this picture here, Mr. Speaker, of when the President called a lot of the Members of the minority here in this House down to the White House and they had a meeting and the President came out, mikes and everything, not one Democrat here, saying that we stand with the President, this is what the minority president said: ``We stand with the President in not overriding his veto.'' 
   I want to know, Mr. Speaker, how many times the Members of the minority party are going to go down to the White House and stand on the schoolhouse door of allowing us to move in a new direction. The American people are way ahead of us on this issue. 
   I am so happy that Chairman Skelton has brought this to the House floor. I am hoping that we have a bipartisan vote on it. I am encouraging every Member of the House, and I do mean every Member of the House, even my good friends on the other side of the aisle, to vote for a commonsense new direction. And I think that is very, very important as we look at this responsible redeployment act. 
   Once again, it takes courage to be a Member of the House. It takes also leadership to be a Member of the House. And some of us have to go see the wizard and pick up both of those values that we all hold and that we should hold. So I encourage you to cast an affirmative vote on the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I am excited about being here. I want to thank the gentlelady for yielding. But I am going to put my prepared notes to the side here, because I don't think that is needed at this point, because we are well into debate now, Mr. Speaker, on this very issue of Iraq. 
   I would like to disclose to the House that I am not a member of the armed services. I have never served in a forward area. I wasn't even a member of the ROTC. But I am a Member of the U.S. Congress, and I have been federalized to come here to represent my constituents and the people of this great country. 
   I know sometimes we say some things on the floor that we don't really mean, and then there are some things we do really mean. 
   I had the opportunity to go to the White House today to speak to the President on this very issue, and I shared with him, delivered the message from the majority of the Members of this House of Representatives on a bipartisan basis, Republicans and Democrats that have come to this floor and said they are going to vote in the affirmative on this resolution because they don't believe in the escalation of troops. 
   A supermajority of the Members of the House have not served in the military. Now, do we respect and honor those that allow us still to salute one flag? You are 110 percent right as it relates to my feelings towards that. And I respect those Members who have been in the ROTC and came up through college and what have you and joined the Reserves and active duty. I trust their judgment. They have the right to say what they want to say when they want to say it. 
   But I shared with the President that this will pass. And he shook his head and said, ``I believe it will pass too, Kendrick.'' 
   I said, ``Mr. President, here is something else that we have to be together on, and there has to be some level of compromise.'' 
   Yes, this is a nonbinding resolution, but this is the first time that the President has ever had any, any, any pressure from the Congress on his original thoughts and what he says military commanders call for. 
   Now, since folks have been talking about who they are here on this floor and what they have done and chest beating and all, I have been a member of the Armed Services Committee. I am a member of the Ways and Means Committee now and still on Armed Services on a waiver. 
   I said I wanted to go back to Armed Services because we are at war and we have to make sense here in this House. We just can't say we are there and we got to stay there as long as we got to stay there, until the last insurgent says that they give up. Well, guess what? They are not going to give up. They are not going to give up, and they are not going to say, well, we are leaving. They are not going to say that. 
   So if our mission is to stay there as long as the last insurgent is there, so someone would not be looking at troops leaving on the plane saying we won, if that is the issue, then we have to readjust our thinking here. 
   Let me just share something with you. I said to the President, ``Yes, this is nonbinding, but it means a lot. It sends a message to the country that we heard them last November.'' 
   You know the reason why this House is in the majority for the Democrats this time? You know why? Because the rubber stamp Republican Congress rubber stamped everything that the President sent to this House and to the Senate. And if this was about politics, I would just go home and sit and watch this debate on television and talk to my wife and tell my wife, guess what, sweetheart? The Democrats are about to gain a greater majority, because the American people are going to continue on a bipartisan way, not just Democrats, Republicans, independents, those that never voted before, will start voting because they think that we are not listening. 
   Now, I am going to share this also with you, what is very, very important. I said, ``Mr. President, it is nonbinding, but you are going to have a supplemental that is going to come through, and there has to be language in there that speaks to the point of readiness, speaks to the point of the fact that if you say we are going to send 20,000 combat troops and 3,000 support personnel, that they have what they need to carry out the mission.'' 
   The President heard what I had to say and came right back and said, ``Kendrick, do you believe for a minute that I would put troops in harm's way if the military commanders did not tell us what we had?'' 
   Respectfully I told the President, ``It has happened before.'' I have sat next to Mr. Ryan in the Armed Services Committee and watched four star generals answer the question, ``Do you have what you need?'' ``Yes, we have it.'' 
   Then we went to Iraq twice. Not once. Not when somebody told me that got off the plane that came back from Iraq and said, ``Kendrick, guess what.'' In Mosul, in Baghdad, folks getting ready to go out on patrol did not have up-armored vehicles. And I am a Member of Congress. You would think someone would bring up-armored vehicles out because they have Members of Congress there. And people are there saying, and the troops are there saying, soldiers, in the field, 18 months on the second deployment, saying, ``Congressman, I know what you think, but let me tell you something: We don't have what we need.''     
   They still do not have what they need. So I come to this floor, yes, with great passion. I was not a member of the military, but doggone it, I am a Member of Congress. I am not going to let any Member of Congress make me believe or any other Member believe that they are less of a Member because they do not have the credentials that the next person has. 
   What I do know is that someone woke up early Tuesday morning at 7:00 a.m. to vote for representation in this U.S. House of Representatives, and doggone it, they are going to get, and those troops are going to get it. 
   So tomorrow it is going to be judgment time. Either you are with going in the old direction or in the new direction. 
   And the only reason that I have comfort, Mr. Speaker, tonight is the fact that I know that there is going to be a bipartisan vote on that board, just like it was on the minimum wage, just like it was as it relates to prescription drugs, just like it was in cutting back interest rates on student loans. All these bipartisan votes, and this is going to follow the number of those bipartisan votes. I know that we are going to start having the kind of oversight we have to have on this war. 
   I do not believe that it would be a full pull out of troops, and I am not even looking for that, but I am looking for management of this war in Iraq, and I am glad that we are having this debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS THAT THE UNITED STATES HAS A MORAL RESPONSIBILITY TO MEET THE NEEDS OF THOSE PERSONS, GROUPS AND COMMUNITIES THAT ARE IMPOVERISHED, DISADVANTAGED OR OTHERWISE IN POVERTY -- (House of Representatives - January 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong and unwavering support for H. Con. Res. 198 and am pleased to be a co-sponsor on this Congressional Resolution that draws attention to the approximately 37 million Americans who live in poverty. In particular, I am bound and determined to meeting the Resolution's goal of cutting poverty in half over the next 10 years. 
   The number of impoverished Floridians increased from 859,888 in 2000 to 943,670 in 2005, a 9.7 percent rise, representing almost 6 percent of the total population. Over those years, Broward County's severely poor grew from 77,942 to 82,327, while Miami-Dade's poverty rate of 6.8 percent was among the highest in the State. 
   African Americans and Hispanics have poverty rates far above the poverty rate for Caucasians. In 2005, 24.9 percent of African Americans (9.2 million) and 21.8 percent of Hispanics (94 million) had incomes below poverty, compared to 8.3 percent of non-Hispanic whites (16.2 million) and 11.1 percent of Asians (1.4 million). Although African-Americns represent only 12.6 percent of the total population, they make up 24.8 percent of the poor population. 
   And among those that are the highest of our country's poor are our children. In 2005, 12.3 million children (17.1 percent) were poor. For African American children, this statistic is even higher--in 2005, 34.2 percent of black children were poor (3.7 million). This is inexcusable in a country where so many live in great wealth. 
   Poverty is hunger. Poverty is lack of shelter. Poverty is being sick and not being able to see a doctor. Poverty is not having access to school and not knowing how to read. Poverty is not having a job, is fear for the future, living one day at a time. Poverty is losing a child to illness brought about by unclean water. Poverty is powerlessness, lack of representation and freedom. 
   It is time to change these statistics. Our citizens with minimal education, and our citizens without a job are among those that are the most susceptible to poverty. Clearly, Americans need to work. We need to do what we have to do to make this happen. 
   And we need to do this soon, and not drag our feet on this important issue. This Resolution will motivate us to get moving and gives us a very necessary goal--to cut poverty in half over the next 10 years.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it's an honor to be on the floor. As you know, the 30-Something Working Group has been quite consistent coming to the floor over the years, sharing with the American people and the Members of this House, sharing with them and shedding light on things that we should be working on or things that we have worked on and try to push hopefully for their passage throughout this Congress and to get the President to sign many of these great reforms that we're actually doing now. 
   Mr. Speaker, it has been quite interesting. I kind of got a false alarm that I needed to be on floor by 10 o'clock because the previous hour was going to end, but I'm kind of glad, Mr. Speaker, that that false alarm was wrong because I had a chance to do something usually I don't do, spend some time here prior to going on the floor. Our schedules are so tight, but I was actually running out to get here, and I'm sitting here and listening to the Members on the other side of the aisle, many of whom I would call colleagues and friends. 
   But the thing about our democracy is that we can disagree on many issues and we can speak to each other and have debate, and at the same time come together as colleagues towards common change on some issues that we can work together on. 
   But, as you know, many pages of the Congressional Record have my words and many words of Mr. Altmire and others that are here in this House in the 30-Something Working Group. I always say that we focus on fact and not fiction, and I could not help but listen to the colleagues on the other side saying they want votes up or down on drilling or they want to conserve or we need to move towards a greener America. 
   And I lived through the 108th and the 109th Congress under Republican control. Conserve? Green? What's that? Efficiency? What are you talking about? I sit on the Ways and Means Committee, and we spend a lot of time trying to figure out how we could put forth tax credits to Americans who are looking to turn greener, have greener homes, and to be able to conserve and help us towards trying to push the scientists and industry, pushing them in the direction of alternative fuels so we can invest in the Midwest versus the Middle East.     
   I just couldn't help, Mr. Altmire and Members, to listen to some of the Members that went over to ANWR this past weekend. 
   It's quite interesting, because I took a trip down with the Speaker and several other Members down to Louisiana to fulfill our commitment to the people of the gulf coast that this government will never leave them behind as they were left behind in many areas immediately after the storm, and that's well documented. That's not me talking, you can get on the Internet or you can just remember how folks were stranded there. 
   Now they are trying to bring their lives back together. I am very, very pleased and encouraged to report to the House, and I know that the Democratic leadership will share, but this was a congressional CODEL. It wasn't just a Democratic CODEL. We had Republican Members at the last minute drop out, some of whom are from Louisiana, whose districts we visited, their constituents, that we were concerned about what they haven't received yet and also looking at what has worked so that we can make sure that the taxpayers' dollars are being spent appropriately. 
   When we look at the whole issue of the gulf coast and the rebounding of the gulf coast, you can't help but understand the gas down there is like $3.97. I even found gas there at $3.89. It was interesting, because the refineries are there, and it's closer for the transportation costs that many of us have to pay in your district and down in my district down in south Florida. 
   But when we started talking about the solution, toward some of the issues that the Members from the other side were talking about, on the Republican side, I have the names, which I will not call, but 11 Members from the Republican side went on this ANWR trip, went to the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. When they were in the majority, they didn't go. 
   When they had the opportunity to deal with some of these issues, they didn't deal with them. They were too busy, some of them, watching this chart climb to the top, watching these record-breaking profits on behalf of Big Oil. 
   I don't blame Big Oil, I just blame the old Republican majority for setting the stage and the administration for setting the stage for these record-breaking profits that these oil companies were making or are making. To try to turn this around and to hear now, talking about conserve and all, this has happened under their watch, this perfect storm that they had, both House and Senate and the White House. 
   I am not going to dwell on that, but I just wanted to bring that chart out one more time, because I think it's very, very important to what we're looking at. Then when I start looking at the Members that went on the trip, the ANWR, quote-unquote, we're going to come up with a solution to bring gas prices down. 
   On the DRILL Act, which encouraged use it or lose it, which was a Democratic initiative that we had votes on the floor, every last Member that went on that trip voted against that bill. That was about bringing gas prices down now. That was about let's deal with the Strategic Oil Reserve, bring them down now. 
   Use it or lose it, another piece of legislation, H.R. 6251, every last Member that went on that trip voted no for gas prices to come down, price gouging. Every Member with the exception of two folks that went on that congressional CODEL trip voted ``no.'' 
   This is the real kicker, H.R. 6049, and the reason why I am calling these House Resolutions out is that I don't want any Member or anyone that can hear me or see me to think that it serves any great pleasure for me to be here on the floor spreading fiction and stretching and embellishing. I don't have to do that. Go to the Congressional Record. 
   H.R. 6049, Renewable Energy Act, every last Member that went on that trip voted no. 
   So when you start thinking about it and you start hearing what's being said here, that's the reason why I like that we have folks that get all this information, we go back and forth, we meet weekly, and we try to get all this stuff together. 
   We spend all this time, we come to the floor, I think that's the reason why the 30-Something Working Group has the credibility that we have and have built over the years, because we don't come to the floor for entertainment purposes. We come to the floor because this is serious business. There are people going through heartache and trying to figure out how they are going to get from point A to point B. 
   We don't have time to say, well, if we could only have a vote. Well, you know something, we're having these votes, and the folks on the other side of the aisle are saying if we could only have a vote, they're just not there. 
   Energy security, a number of them voted ``no.'' No OPEC price fixing, only five of those individuals out of 11 that went on the trip voted for no price fixing. 
   So when you look at how you can make this turn, and many of those votes have sent a signal to the White House on some of these votes that he knows that we can't override them, because a number of Republicans have voted on behalf of a philosophy that has allowed Big Oil to make these record-making profits. 
   So we are going to talk about many things, and I know that we are going to  go around to Members here tonight. But I am just so glad to be here tonight like I am when we do get together to be able to talk about these issues. 
   I yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Murphy and Mr. Altmire, the real issue is that I know folks that have died on the battlefield so that we can celebrate the kind of freedoms that some folks just take for granted. 
   I'm fine. I don't have a problem with our colleagues coming to the floor and sharing the things that they've been sharing for a number of years. And I know sometimes Members, they come, and maybe the information may be inaccurate, and then they have to share the information all over again once they correct themselves, or staff or someone. I mean, human, people make mistakes. And that's the reason why we spend so much time here trying to make sure that we have what we have done. And there is a lot that we're doing and a lot more we can do and a lot more we want to do. 
   We don't have the White House. And when you don't have the White House, it's hard--and I'm talking about Democrat or Republican. If you have a White House that's saying, you know something, I disagree with eight of the 10 things that you're trying to do, even if the American people have said they want it. A number of bills the President--he didn't change his mind because he thought he needed to change his mind, it was just the uproar of the American people. I can go down the list, starting with one of the major battles in Social Security, privatization of Social Security. All kind of Federal jet fuel was burned flying throughout the country trying to make it so that the American people would endorse such a plan. And on and on and on. 
   And I see Mr. Altmire is getting his chart out. But these are the things that we've done. And there are one or two things that are not on this chart. But we see the green here that says ``now law,'' ``now law,'' ``now law,'' ``now law.'' You have ``veto threat,'' ``veto threat,'' ``veto threat,'' ``veto threat.'' 
   I didn't come to the floor to share with the Members where George W. Bush stands on these issues. I mean, his term is coming to an end and, come January, there will be a new President that will occupy the White House and that will work with this Congress. 
   I also believe that the American people, Members, are not fooled. I don't come to the floor to say, you know, hey, I told you so, or I told you this would happen, or I told you this is the way the American people feel. I don't feel that's my job or obligation to share that information. 
   I've also said in the past that if this was about politics, coming to the floor, then I would just be somewhere at the house maybe watching, you know, a DVD or reading a book or listening to music, or whatever the case may be, and just let the course of democracy play its role. 
   I try to share with many of my friends on the other side of the aisle that sometimes when you're following the leadership and they're headed in the wrong direction, somebody needs to tap them on the shoulder and say, you know something, there's a new direction, there's a new direction in Congress here. I know we have to show the differences politically of philosophy, but I may not be marching with you next year. And I can tell you right now, I'm talking to some of these candidates that are out there, and it is almost--I never thought that I would see the kind of support--and I'm just talking about support in the polling and everything of saying ``we want change. We want to move in a new direction. We want lower gas prices. We want to be able to see the kind of housing bill that passed this floor today that is going to help my situation.'' 
   If someone is a Republican or a Democrat or an Independent, they didn't elect a Member of Congress or someone to come up here and represent them and say, I sent them up there to represent my partisan views. No, nine times out of 10, and even more than that, they sent us up here to make sure that we represent them and provide a better day for their children and grandchildren. So that's where I feel that this major political paradigm shift is taking place in this country, and it will continue. 
   So Mr. Altmire and Mr. Murphy, we should continue doing the good things that we are doing on behalf of this country as it relates to policy. We should continue moving in a bipartisan way, having more bipartisan votes on major pieces of legislation than the Congress has had in the previous Congress under Democratic control, bills that Republicans in this House can vote for because they are good bills that serve the entire country, not just a segment of the country. 
   So we have to continue moving down the road. We have to continue, as we move to close out this month and before we go on break next month to go back to our districts, to be able to finish the business at hand. And when we come back in September, be able to deal with that business, because there is going to be a lot said between now and then. We're almost within 100 days of the country being able to make the decision of who's going to be the Commander in Chief, who's going to be in the House, who's going to be in the Senate. 
   So when you start thinking about it, they're going to kick into autopilot, they're going to make the decisions, but I just want to make sure that--not that I'm trying to preserve and increase or maintain the levels that the Republican Caucus is at right now in the House, but I'm just saying what's bigger than politics is getting the job done on behalf of the folks that are counting on us to do it. So that's the reason why we come here. 
   Mr. Murphy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Well, Mr. Altmire, as we move into closing out tonight, I just want to yield to Mr. Murphy. And if you have any other closing comments that you would have to make, I think it would be appropriate to make them at this time. 
   But I can tell you, Mr. Altmire, that I am excited about what we are doing about the solution. You know, the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act, H.R. 3221, is a part of that testimonial of service that this House has provided, and putting bills on the floor that Democrats and Republicans can vote for to respond to the foreclosure crisis that's out there now. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, that has been a part of helping so many Americans get the American dream, putting the kind of regulatory reform that's needed for those two entities to be able to provide the kind of service that the American people would look for them to provide, and allowing Americans to be able to get a piece of what we call ``the American Dream.'' 
   And also being able to watch what's going on as it relates to our economy, investors, and others, to stabilize the market through this legislation, and so much work that has gone into it. And hopefully the Senate will be acting on it soon.     
   This is a piece of legislation that the President said that he can sign. These are solutions. That is what I tell my constituents when, nine times out of ten, we run into someone, and they start sharing their problems with you. I want to respond. And nine times out of 10 I respond, now let's have a discussion about how we can work toward a solution. Because we're not here to describe the problem. We're here to come up with solutions, and a solution that all of America can share in and that every Member of the House, every Member of the Senate and the President can feel good about signing because legislation like the legislation that passed here, is probably being noted as one of the major pieces of legislation of this Congress in both sessions, first and second session, that has passed off this House floor that is going to touch so many Americans. And that is the kind of leadership, that is the kind of new direction that we talked about. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. MEEK of Florida. (30-SOMETHING WORKING GROUP -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MEEK of Florida. Very good. Very good. I think that your comments were very appropriate and definitely will give the kind of motivation for bills like it to come to the floor. And it's going to be about solutions, mayors, city council people, individuals back home, everyone along the line of elected officials likes to see bills like this because that is going to help give the backbone to their community that they need. 
   No one, no Members want to see signs of foreclosure, for sale, quick sales, all of these things. You have folks that are holding on to their mortgage. I have constituents who come to me and say, Kendrick, I bought my condo at $600,000, $500,000 or $300,000 and someone had to carry out a quick sale within our building, and my property value went down. And I have already lost. And I am holding the flag up, and I'm doing all the things I have to do. And I didn't get into an interest-only loan. I went into a conventional. But I'm suffering from that. So everyone, it is almost like folks are getting pulled down. This bill today is helping to shore up that housing market, even rental housing in urban and rural areas. 
   So with that, Mr. Speaker, it's always an honor to come to the floor to address the House. I want to thank the Democratic leadership for providing us with this hour once again. And we look forward to coming back in the future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
