<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE REVISION AND EXTENSION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Chairman, this bill should be defeated because it is irresponsible and absolutely fiscally dangerous to pass a piece of legislation like this with an open-ended obligation on the U.S. Treasury. The bill should be defeated because, for all practical purposes, no private insurer will ever write coverage again in this area because they can now count on the U.S. Treasury to pay for this coverage. And the bill should be defeated because of its massive potential cost that the CBO has scored it, a 10-year cost of about $10.4 billion. 
   But I think probably the most important reason this bill should be defeated is one that we, as stewards of the Treasury, need to keep in mind on every bill, on every amendment, on every vote that involves spending a dollar of the taxpayers' money, that all of us in Congress should keep in mind the single, in my mind, most important fact that I have run across as a Member of Congress, and that is that David Walker, the Comptroller General of the United States, the director of the Government Accountability Office, has estimated that in order to pay off the existing obligations of the Federal Government, both direct and indirect, the existing obligations of the Federal  Government are so massive that every American would have to buy $170,000 worth of Treasury bills today in order to pay off the debt, the interest on the national debt, Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security. All the existing obligations, the Federal programs that are out there in existence today, those obligations are so massive that every living American would have to buy $170,000 in Treasury bills in order to pay them off.     
   It is absolutely imperative that this Congress on every bill, every amendment and every vote do everything we can to prevent adding to that burden, and to subtract from it as much as we can as, in our private lives, if you had a second mortgage on a house and the credit cards were all topped out, you would only spend money on the bare essentials. We have the same obligation, and even higher, a greater obligation here in Congress, as stewards of the Federal Treasury, to ensure that we're not passing on obligations to future generations, or adding to that $170,000 burden. And I don't want to hear the proponents of this bill come back and say, well, this administration added a lot to that burden. I can tell you personally I voted against almost every one of those big spending initiatives that the White House proposed. My district opposed a lot of the expansions of these big new spending programs. I voted against No Child Left Behind as a violation of the 10th amendment and spending money we didn't have. I voted against the Medicare prescription drug bill as spending money we didn't have. I voted against the farm bill as spending money we didn't have and I'm not going to pass that on to my daughter or future generations. 
   Most of us on this side, the fiscal conservatives in this House, have consistently opposed big new spending programs, and this bill is probably the worst I've seen so far. It is, in my mind, a perfect illustration of a liberal Democrat fiscal policy that they have passed an open-ended obligation onto future generations, a blank check on the U.S. Treasury. It's an utterly irresponsible and dangerous piece of legislation and it should be defeated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (AWARDING A CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL TO MICHAEL ELLIS D<em>e</em>BAKEY, M.D. -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Thank you, Dr. Burgess. 
   I want to thank my good friend, Al Green, my good friend and colleague, Michael Burgess, Senator Hutchison, who has been a leader in this effort, and the chairman of the Financial Services Committee as well in bringing this important legislation to the floor. Chairman Frank has been extraordinarily helpful. 
   I won't be long, but I want to point out that Dr. Michael E. DeBakey is one of those singular geniuses whose name will truly be remembered in a thousand years when our work here today is long forgotten. What we do here we hope will impact the lives of our children and fellow Americans in ways that will improve their lives, and we all do our best every day to make that contribution, but Dr. Michael DeBakey has genuinely made contributions that will last for many, many generations and will continue to save lives for many generations. 
   Dr. DeBakey is an inventive genius. He is not only a physician, he is an engineer, an innovator, a surgeon, an educator, and the impact that he has had on medicine truly cannot be overstated. 
   Many of the medical procedures we rely on today would truly not be available were it not for his groundbreaking efforts. He is responsible for pioneering four different types of operations for the treatment of aneurysms in the heart, and the first physician to successfully perform bypass surgery. 
   Dr. Michael DeBakey's contributions are too numerous to mention here. We have had the privilege of bringing the House bill to the floor here within the last couple of weeks, and are very  pleased that Chairman Frank has brought Senator Hutchison's bill to the floor so that we can speed this important legislation to the President's desk. Dr. DeBakey is now 99 years old, still in good health, still consulting as a physician in medical cases. The man is truly a legend. And it is my singular privilege to be here today to join with my colleagues, Al Green, Dr. Burgess and Senator Hutchison, in recognizing and honoring this great, good man for his magnificent contributions to the improvement of the health of all humanity in awarding Dr. Michael DeBakey the Congressional Gold Medal. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5818, NEIGHBORHOOD STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, let's be clear. It is not we Members who are shut out, it is the constituents that we represent. On this Financial Services bill, those constituents that we represent have been shut out in committee and not offered an opportunity to offer an amendment. 
   On the Appropriations Committee, the war funding bill, life or death for our troops, the most important question facing our Nation, our survival as a Nation and the war on terror, the 19 million Americans that we represent on the Republican side have been shut out of the process and denied an opportunity to offer amendments in debate on the survival of the Nation in the war on terror, on life and death of our soldiers in the field. 
   I, for one, had an amendment to make the Iraqi Government pay more of their own share of this reconstruction and make sure that with oil at $120 a barrel, the Iraqi Government, sitting on the world's third-largest supply of oil, I have an amendment to require the Iraqi Government, that I was going to offer in committee, to make the Iraqi Government pay for the reconstruction of roads, utilities, schools, job training and economic development. Because we have a record debt and deficit in this country, that amendment is an important piece of the debate in the appropriations bill to pay for the war. 
   This is not just any bill that the American people have been shut out of the debate on. It is the bill paying for the lives and safety of our troops in the field. 
   I would, frankly, think that the Democrat leadership of this House would be embarrassed to deny the American people an opportunity to have their elected representatives participate in this debate. When we started this Congress, the Speaker promised the most ethical and open Congress in the history of the Nation. We don't see it in the process. Over and over again these bills come to the floor without an opportunity to debate them or offer amendments on the floor. 
   Don't forget, it is not just the Republicans that are shut out, Mr. Speaker, but the Democrat members of the Appropriations Committee have been shut out, just like the members of the Financial Services Committee have been shut out. The American people have been shut out of this process, and the Democrat leadership ought to be embarrassed for bringing a bill to fund the war without giving us all an opportunity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of the gentleman from Ohio's amendment, and I want to thank him for offering it. 
   Today in this amendment, the gentleman from Ohio is offering American taxpayers a $1.3 billion tax cut on an appropriations bill. And it is important for everyone to understand, Mr. Chairman, that this amendment is a $1.3 billion tax cut for Americans because the Democrat budget that they have produced, which pays for these increases in their appropriations bill, this Democrat budget spends all that new money by raising taxes. 
   The Democrat budget assumes that the Bush tax cuts are going to all go away. And by eliminating the Bush tax cuts, the effect is the largest tax increase in American history, which the Democrat majority has orchestrated in a way that they can allow it to go away without even having to cast a vote. The budget that the Democrats use to pay for these massive increases in this appropriations bill are paid for by the biggest tax increase in American history. And, therefore, the gentleman's amendment, Congressman Jordan's amendment, is a $1.3 billion tax cut. And that is a critical point that I think everyone needs to make sure they understand. 
   When they vote for this amendment, they are voting to cut the taxes of our constituents by $1.3 billion. And it is really just that simple. And I could not thank him enough. It is an extraordinarily important amendment. There are vitally important functions in this Energy and Water appropriations bill that need to be funded, but this increase is not affordable at the time of record debt and deficit, and I applaud the gentleman and urge Members to vote for a $1.3 billion tax cut. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Chairman, I just want to compliment my colleague from Texas on this superb amendment because this has always been a concern. I am proud to be a member of the Appropriations Committee. And the effort that a lot of Members have made to try to eliminate earmarks isn't going to go anywhere and save taxpayers any money unless we're able to actually eliminate the earmark or pass a cut that then shifts money into a deficit reduction account. 
   My colleague from west Texas is exactly right. I would encourage Mr. Flake and others to pay close attention to what Mr. Conaway is doing because this is precisely what I and others, Mr. Conaway has been working on this for some time, have suggested you need a deficit reduction account. You eliminate the earmark if you're worried about controlling spending. A lot of those earmarks are important and necessary and we all need to post them on our Web sites. I've been doing that for a long, long time. Every earmark I make I'm proud of, it's there on the Web site. The starting answer is ``no'' for all appropriations requests, but if you earn an earmark, be proud of it. But those earmarks that we want to eliminate, cut them and put them in this deficit reduction account. 
   Mr. Conaway is exactly right. This is a tremendous amendment. I hope all Members will support it because the taxpayers deserve to save this money and have it go towards reducing the deficit. 
   I thank you very much, Mr. Conaway. It's a great amendment. And I will work hard to help you pass it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, I think it's important for the American people to understand that throughout the history of this Congress and this Nation that party divisions in time of war have always ended at the water's edge, until today. 
   Tragically, for this Congress, for this House, for the Appropriations Committee, the Speaker of the House has decided to unilaterally impose on the will of the entire Nation this appropriations bill without the benefit of a hearing, without the benefit of amendments, without the benefit of input not just from the Republican Members, Mr. Speaker, but from the Democrat Members. 
   It's, I think, a terrible precedent to set for this great committee that I am so proud to be a member of. I know that my colleague, Mr. Lewis, and my colleague, Chairman Obey, are both men of good will and good hearts. I know this is, I think, a particularly sad day for the institution and the Nation where 300 million Americans are not given an opportunity to be heard on a question of national security as important as the issue of funding our troops is. Never before in the history of this institution have the entire committees, the Congress been shut out of this process. 
   On the aftermath of 9/11, when you could stand in front of the Capitol Building and still smell the Pentagon burning, the Congress came together and by unanimous consent agreed to approve a supplemental appropriations bill to help pay for the costs of the war. In a time of emergency with the hurricane damage in New Orleans and across the South, we all came together and agreed to do this. 
   But this is done unilaterally, without the consent of both sides, in a time of national emergency, and it is a travesty, Mr. Speaker. It contains provisions that have nothing to do with our troops' survival and safety in the field. To burden our troops with pork, with tax increases, with special provisions that have nothing to do with the war, adds to, I think, the obvious misuse of the process, and I urge Members to vote against the pork and support our troops. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (THOMAS JEFFERSON -- (House of Representatives - April 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Madam Speaker, this Sunday was the 265th birthday of Thomas Jefferson, one of our Nation's greatest Founding Fathers, and someone who we, I think, as a Nation do not pay enough attention to. 
   His birthday, unfortunately, went largely unnoticed. And I'm going to take this time on the floor today, Madam Speaker, to honor this great good man, recognize his genius and the application of his core principles as solutions to the core problems our Nation faces today, and in conclusion, to read his first Inaugural Address which was given in this Capitol on March 4, 1801 as a reminder of his genius and as a guideline to really lay out a path for the solutions that we really need as a Nation today. 
   The financial hole the United States finds itself in today is absolutely unprecedented. The Comptroller of the United States, David Walker, who just left office a few weeks ago, audited the books of the United States and concluded that we, as a Nation, are in a $54 trillion hole, that every living American would have to write a check for $175,000 in order to pay off the existing obligations of the Federal Government. That includes the $11 trillion national debt to pay off the obligations of Medicare, Social Security and Medicaid. All those existing obligations of all the Federal programs already on the books are so massive, with the retirement of the baby boomers, with the profligate Thelma-and-Louise spending of this Democrat Congress, existing financial obligations are so severe that we would, every one of us, have to write a check today for $175,000 just to pay off those existing obligations even if Congress didn't create a single new Federal program. It's an extraordinary number, one that is absolutely terrifying and that not enough Americans know about. 
   If we, as a Nation, would just adhere to the principles of Jeffersonian republicanism, if we would remember Mr. Jefferson's vision, his genius, his adherence to the core principles of republicanism, with a small ``r'' as he called them, we, as a Nation, can dig our way out of that financial hole, we as a Nation can return to the prosperity and freedom that the Nation has always enjoyed, the level of freedom that our founders enjoyed. 
   It's disturbing to me, as a Member of Congress, to see the ease with which programs like the funding for anyone in the world who has tuberculosis, AIDS or malaria, under a bill that this House passed last week, anyone in the world in a third world nation that has malaria, TB or AIDS is entitled, at U.S. taxpayer expense, to $1,200 a year worth of medication. Now, that bill passed at a time when we're in this $54 trillion hole, when we have an $11 trillion national debt, when every one of us owe $175,000 a piece. It's just unbelievable to me and utterly irresponsible, the continued expansion of the Federal Government, the continued creation of Federal programs like this by this Thelma-and-Louise Democrat Congress. To grow the Federal Government at a time of record debt and deficit is absolutely intolerable, and it just has to stop. 
   Mr. Jefferson's birthday is an appropriate time to remember the core principles that not only really created the Nation, but would serve us well, as a Congress, today to help dig out of that financial hole, to make sure that we live within our means. 
   Thomas Jefferson often said that if we, as a Nation, would only apply core Republican principles to any problem, the knot will always untie itself. He was absolutely right about that. Mr. Jefferson believed that we should trust the good hearts and the good judgment of individual Americans to make the right decision. Never entrust the solution to a problem to the Federal Government except as an absolute last resort. Washington, D.C. will usually foul it up. And Mr. Jefferson understood that. And it was not because there aren't good people here. The Nation's capital is full of wonderful, good people dedicated to representing their districts to the best of their ability and based on their core principles as they see them. We bring in, in District Seven, 25 young people, one junior from each of the high schools in my district, I have set up a program as a nonprofit 501(c)(3), the Bill Archer Student Intern Program, to bring one young person from each of the high schools in my district for a full week, all-expenses-paid trip to Washington, D.C. so they can see firsthand that the Nation's capital is full of people who have good hearts, they're doing the best they can to represent their districts from their perspective. 
   The young people in my district who participate in this program meet Members of Congress, they meet Members of the Senate, they meet administration officials, cabinet members, they meet judges on the Supreme Court, and they have an opportunity to see firsthand, Mr. Speaker, that the government is truly made up of good people doing the best they can. And it is just human nature that when decisions, as Mr. Jefferson said, are removed to Washington, D.C. where the people can't see them, can't not only see what's going on, but a real voice in what's going on, when those decisions are removed to Washington they become, by nature, less responsive, less effective in solving the problems of the American people. 
   This government has grown so far beyond what the founders intended that I'm not sure Mr. Jefferson would recognize the Federal Government today. And I know he would be as alarmed as I am, as my colleague, my good friend, Congressman Roscoe Bartlett, who will follow me, is with the continued growth of this government. 
   As fiscally conservative as I am, Mr. Speaker, I've found in the time that I've been here I've become even more fiscally conservative as I see the record growth of this government, as I read David Walker's report. And I encourage everyone out there to take the time,  Mr. Speaker, to go to gao.gov and look at the Fiscal Wake Up Tour and carefully look at what David Walker has audited and certified as the immense scope and size of the financial hole that the United States finds itself in; $54 trillion hole that gets $3 to $4 trillion deeper every year. 
   Comptroller Walker says that the United States has about 5 to 10 years to get our financial house in order. That's an extremely important piece of information. We have, according to the Comptroller, 10 years tops, probably 5 years, to get our financial House in order, to begin to get control over these entitlement programs, to begin to get on a path to a balanced budget. 
   We need a constitutional amendment, ultimately, Mr. Speaker, to get the budget of the United States balanced. We have it in Texas, it works beautifully. We also have a ``speed governor'' in Texas in our State constitution, it's something we need here at the Federal level, where the growth in government cannot exceed natural growth in the economy, that there is essentially a speed governor on spending that prevents the legislative body from spending more money than is brought in by natural growth in the economy, it works well in Texas, along with a balanced budget amendment to the United States Constitution, would do a lot to get us back on the path that Comptroller Walker points out that we must do within the next 5 to 10 years, or else. 
   Comptroller Walker has certified that by 2020, 12 years--young people listening here today, Mr. Speaker, if you're 18 years old, by the year 2020, when you're 30 years old, Medicare is bankrupt. Social Security is on the brink of bankruptcy. 
   Treasury bonds, the safest investment in the world, according to the Comptroller, according to Moody's and Standard and Poor's, who have already formally notified the Treasury that they're beginning the process of downgrading U.S. Treasury bonds, Treasury bonds by the year 2020 will be graded as junk bonds if we do not stop growing the government and stop spending money on anything but the bare essentials. In our personal lives, Mr. Speaker, if we have run up too much debt, if we have a second mortgage on the home, if our credit cards are tapped out, in our personal lives we would all know what to do, you would quit spending money on anything except the bare essentials to keep a roof over your family's head, to pay the bills, to put groceries on the table, other than that, you would just quit spending money. But the Federal Government has the ability not only to print money, but to issue more Treasury bonds. And the money that we spend here in Congress that is beyond our means is paid for by debt passed on to our kids. It's just intolerable. 
   The Chinese, the foreign investors buy our Treasury bonds today and support this profligate spending, but it is not supportable, it cannot be sustained, and we simply must stop spending money that our kids cannot afford to pay. It's inexcusable, it's intolerable. 
   And it's important, on the 265th birthday of Thomas Jefferson, to remember the core principles that Mr. Jefferson lived his life by, that he governed this Nation by as our third President, to remember the genius of this great, good man and try to apply those principles to these massive problems we have today; to, first of all, live within our means; to restrict not only the size and power and cost of the Federal Government, but to roll it back within the boundaries that the founders originally intended, the narrow scope of responsibility as laid out in the Constitution so beautifully by our founders. 
   The whole idea of the Federal Government was that it would only have those powers expressly delegated to it in the Constitution, that, as the 10th Amendment says so well, that all power not specifically delegated to the Federal Government by the Constitution would be reserved to the States and the people. 
   I came out of the State legislature in Texas. And the idea behind the State constitutions, I think my friend, Congressman Bartlett, served in the Maryland State legislature, the State constitutions give the State legislatures all power that State constitutions set aside for the legislatures. It's a broad grant of authority. 
   The Federal Government is delegated responsibility in a very narrow way by the Federal Constitution. And over the years, with the terrible War Between the States, the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, the Reconstruction Congress, The New Deal, the growth of the Federal Government with the rapid expansion of power under The New Deal, Congress passing laws in areas where they really don't have any business, as a result, the Federal Government has grown so far beyond anything that the founders envisioned that we today face, as David Walker has told us, a $54 trillion liability that equals $175,000 for every living American. 
   This obligation, Mr. Speaker, is so massive that if we were to confiscate all the private property of the United States and sell it off at auction, David Walker estimates that would only pay for about 90 percent of this $54 trillion obligation. 
   It's a terrifying number. And the number that we often see for the national debt of about $11 trillion working out to about $45,000 a person, that's not the real number, folks. The real number is you, Mr. Speaker, I, every living American has to write a check for $175,000 today to pay off that $54 trillion liability that we are now descending on a path like Argentina, the dollar becoming like the peso. 
   We, as a Nation, our Treasury bills, the safest investment in the history of the world, becoming junk bonds. It's intolerable, it's inexcusable. And it's a result of profligate spending by this Congress over far too many years. It's why I, as the congressman from District Seven, voted against the farm bill. No Child Left Behind is a violation of the 10th Amendment, spending money we didn't have. I voted against this AIDS in Africa program. I voted against the Medicare Prescription Drug bill. I voted against, frankly, every single one of the major spending initiatives that have been proposed since I got here in 2001 in recognition that I just simply will do everything in my power not to pass on this massive debt and deficit to my daughter and to her kids. It is just inexcusable and unacceptable. 
   I rise today, Mr. Speaker, to honor Mr. Jefferson and to read into the Record his magnificent first Inaugural Address, his great advice for the Nation today, for this Congress, for the Nation, for the executive branch, for all of us to just take a moment and contemplate carefully the genius of Thomas Jefferson, the wisdom of his core philosophy of republicanism, with a small ``r,'' that was focused on the preservation of individual liberty and trusting individual Americans to control that which they could see with their own eye, as he often liked to say, shifting power away from Washington and back in the hands of locally elected officials and individual Americans. 
   Mr. Jefferson also spent much of his time fighting the expansion of power of the judiciary.     
   John Marshall, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court at that time when he was President, and Mr. Jefferson locked horns repeatedly. And one of my favorite Jefferson quotes when it came to the judiciary was Mr. Jefferson often said that ``The judiciary advances on noiseless steps like gravity, never yielding what they have gained.'' 
   And that is so true, Mr. Speaker. Not only has the Congress, passing laws we have no business passing that belong within the jurisdiction and control of State and local governments, not only has the Congress expanded the size, power, and cost to the Federal Government, but an aggressive judiciary has repeatedly expanded the scope of its power and responsibility. 
   Also, after the election of 1800 when the Republicans and he, as the leader of the Republican Party, took over the executive branch and won a majority in the United States House and in the United States Senate, Mr. Jefferson said that the Federalists, those who wanted to concentrate all power in Washington, had ``retreated to the bunkers of the judiciary and turned their guns on the people of the United States.'' 
   And in so many ways, those judges that Mr. Jefferson was so concerned about have over time gradually expanded the scope of their power where in, for example, the State of Missouri,  Mr. Speaker, a Federal judge in Missouri actually ordered a tax increase to pay for public education. Unbelievable, that a judge would take it upon himself to tax the people of Missouri to pay for public education. He ordered the State of Missouri to issue $100 million in bonds, raised property taxes, raised taxes on the people of Missouri to pay for improvements that that Federal judge believed in his ivory tower, in his wisdom as Zeus up on Mount Olympus, that the people of the city of St. Louis needed to improve their schools. And this judge had the idea that here's how we're going to do it and you're going to pay taxes to pay for it. 
   Time after time after time, when power is concentrated where the people can't see it, where they can't touch it, where it's in the hands of people that are unelected, unaccountable, and invisible to the public, bad decisions are made, Mr. Speaker. The Constitution suffers, this Nation suffers, and I think as a result of drifting too far from the core principles of Jeffersonian Republicanism, the Nation finds itself where it is today, in a $54 trillion hole where we are on a glide path to become like Argentina, where our treasury bills are junk, where our dollar is not valued, and we essentially could be within a decade on the brink of national bankruptcy. It's unacceptable. We can stop it just like a hurricane can be dealt with, Mr. Speaker. If we see the hurricane coming and know about it, we can deal with it. 
   It's important to remember that the people of Britain won the Battle of Britain because Winston Churchill was honest with them and told them how dangerous the Nazis were, how severe the threat was to their freedom, that the British people could indeed lose their island and fall under Hitler's control. But the people of Britain had to be told the truth. And Winston Churchill told them the truth. And I think we, as elected officials, owe our constituents the truth about the size and scope of the $54 trillion liability that has been created over the last 60 years of Democrat and Republican Congresses. Passing that liability on to our children and grandchildren is outrageous, it's unacceptable, it's immoral, it's fundamentally wrong. And I hope we will, all of us, as Members of Congress, take guidance from the genius, the wisdom of Thomas Jefferson as he addressed the Nation in his first inaugural address on March 4, 1801, after coming through a bitter election where the House of Representatives had to make the final decision as to who was to be President. 
   He, as leader of the Republican Party, was running against John Adams, the leader of the Federalist Party, the second President. They had become fast friends in Paris. Thomas Jefferson and John Adams and Abigail Adams had become just inseparable friends during their time together in Paris, in Europe. They had become friends, of course, during the time of the writing of the Declaration of Independence. It was John Adams who put Thomas Jefferson on the committee and insisted that Mr. Jefferson write the Declaration of Independence and John Adams who continued to support and encourage Thomas Jefferson. They were fast personal friends. 
   But in the election of 1800, they had a falling out because of their fundamental difference of opinion about the direction the Nation should go. Mr. Adams believed in a strong, powerful central government and the concentration of authority in Washington, D.C. Mr. Jefferson believed firmly in the preservation of our constitutional separation of powers and the preservation of the rights of the States and the people as the best and most responsible guardians of liberty. And that fundamental difference of opinion about where true power should lie led to their running against each other for President. 
   Aaron Burr was running also. And in the election of 1800, the electoral college wound up being deadlocked. It was a tie between Aaron Burr and Thomas Jefferson, and the House of Representatives had to make the final decision. Each State being given one vote, there was a deadlock, and I think it was 37 ballots that had to be cast before Mr. Jefferson was finally selected as President. 
   So they had come through a bitter election. The Nation had gone right to the brink of war with France. It was a bitter, bitter struggle over whether or not the Nation should go to war with France. John Adams signed the Alien and Sedition Acts. And by signing the Alien and Sedition Acts, the Federalists, led by John Adams, had essentially made it illegal for anyone to speak out against the President, to speak out in a way that would hold out the President or the Congress to ridicule, violating, of course, obviously, the first amendment, freedom of speech. And that, of course, also deepened the separation between Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Adams. 
   That election was especially bitter. So this inaugural address was given at a time of deep passionate differences between Federalists and Republicans. And that part of his speech, I think, is also very applicable today. 
   Mr. Speaker, you and I are good friends. We, all of us, work together in this House as best we can to advance the needs of the Nation. There are personal friendships, certainly among, for example, the Texas delegation. One of my very best friends in Congress, my good friend Henry Cuellar, and my good friend Ciro Rodriguez, who represents the border counties, we were elected together in 1986 in the Texas legislature. We remain devoted friends, and all of us in the Texas delegation put Texas first. When it comes to the needs of our State, party labels don't matter. We're Texans first and do what we can to help the State of Texas. And I know that's true of other State delegations. It's especially true in Texas. 
   And in the inaugural address that Mr. Jefferson gave in 1801, he was speaking of the need to bring the Nation together and to not let party labels or party fights get in the way of doing the right thing for the Nation. So part of what you will hear Mr. Jefferson say to the Nation, I think, is especially appropriate today, that we do all that we can to put those partisan distinctions 
   aside. 
   But as I read his inaugural address and as you hear his words, it's also important for the majority here to remember Mr. Jefferson's admonition that, although the will of the majority is in all cases to prevail, that will to be rightful must be reasonable and protect the rights of the minority. Because this majority, this Thelma and Louise Democrat majority in this Congress that's driving America right off a financial cliff, this Thelma and Louise Democrat majority doesn't often hold public hearings on bills. They drop bills out here on the floor without public hearings. There's no opportunity for amendment. There's very little opportunity for debate, just fundamentally destroying the whole purpose of this great deliberative body. And denying the minority our right to offer amendment, our right to be heard in this debate, is, as you will hear Mr. Jefferson say, oppression, a violation of the most fundamental principles of this great American Republic. We see it occur on a daily basis, and it's a tragic and terrible thing that the Thelma and Louise Democrat majority has imposed on this House, on this Nation, in denying the Republican minority our opportunity to offer amendments and be heard. So in that sense too, Mr. Jefferson's words have special meaning today. 
   I have probably read about 60 percent of Mr. Jefferson's works. He is my hero. Mr. Jefferson is my role model in all that I do. In representing District Seven, I do my very best, Mr. Speaker, to apply core Jeffersonian principles, and on every issue I have found no matter what the problem is, no matter what the issue is, Mr. Jefferson was right. If you apply core Republican principles, the knot always unties itself. I have yet to encounter a problem that Jeffersonian Republican principles won't solve. So, Mr. Speaker, I want to now read into the Record Thomas Jefferson's first inaugural address on March 4, 1801, at the conclusion of which I will yield back the remainder of my hour and turn it over to my good friend and colleague Roscoe Bartlett, a fellow dedicated conservative who is committed to the core principles of our Constitution. Mr. Bartlett is someone I admire deeply, a fellow Jeffersonian. 
   And before reading Mr. Jefferson's inaugural address, his greatest speech perhaps, I think, and in the opinion of scholars, they believe Mr. Jefferson's first inaugural address is his greatest, let me also point out, Mr. Speaker, something else important. This good man, at the end of his life, wrote on his  tombstone three things. If you visit Monticello and visit Mr. Jefferson's grave, it says on his tombstone that he was the author of the American independence, the author of the Virginia Statute of Religious Freedom, and the father of the University of Virginia. Mr. Jefferson listed those three things because in his mind those were his three greatest achievements. He wanted to list on his tombstone those things that he had done for the American people rather than those things that they had done for him. All the offices that he had held, the incredible array of honors that had been his throughout his life. In fact, Mr. Speaker, there was a wonderful letter that Mr. Jefferson wrote towards the end of his life in February of 1826. He died, of course, on July 4, 1826, 50 years to the minute after he presented the Declaration of Independence to the Continental Congress. Mr. Jefferson held on, although he was unconscious. He knew that he was close to the 4th. He actually breathed his last at about 1 p.m. on July 4, 1826, at almost the exact moment that 50 years earlier the committee, Mr. Adams, Dr. Franklin, and Mr. Jefferson, had presented the Declaration to the Continental Congress. 
   Mr. Jefferson had, about 4 months earlier, wrote a letter justifying lotteries, because he couldn't balance his checkbook and Monticello was going to have to be sold to pay off his creditors, which broke his heart. And someone had come up with the idea of having a lottery to help pay for the debts that he had incurred. And, of course, a lottery, being gambling, it really worried Mr. Jefferson. And he wrote a long justification for this lottery that would sell tickets to save Monticello. And I recommend it to people to take a look at because in this long justification, called Thoughts on Lotteries and it's dated, I think, February of 1826, Mr. Jefferson lays out all of the great accomplishments in his life. After going through all the good things that lotteries have done in the past, he says that for no other reason people buy a lottery ticket, they should perhaps remember his services to the Nation, and he lists all that he had done with his incredible life: Secretary of State, Minister to France, Vice President, President of the United States, the author of the Declaration of Independence, this incredible list of accomplishments in his life.     
   And most revealingly, Mr. Speaker, Thomas Jefferson says at the end of it all, listing all of those accomplishments, Mr. Jefferson says, ``Of all these things that I have done with my life, the most important thing that I have ever done was to be a partisan Republican, to head the Republican party.'' 
   Because Mr. Jefferson said ``it was the Republicans that I, as the leader of the Republicans in the Senate, and Albert Gallatin, as the leader of the Republicans in the House, that essentially saved the Republic, that held on to the core principles of the Constitution at the time under the Alien and Sedition Act when the Adams administration was furiously concentrating power in the hands of the Federal Government, that the Republicans in the Congress, the Republicans in the State legislature, and the phalanx of the State legislatures,'' as Mr. Jefferson said, ``it was the Republican party that truly saved the Republic,'' and that being partisan, being the leader of the Republican party, in Mr. Jefferson's mind, was his greatest accomplishment because it led to the election of 1800 and the salvation of the Nation. 
   Mr. Jefferson always thought of the election of 1800 as the revolution of 1800, and by electing a Republican majority to the House in 1800, a Republican majority to the Senate, a Republican President, Republicans had been elected in State legislatures across the Nation, that Mr. Jefferson believed that that election was decisive and allowed the core principles of the Constitution to be salvaged and to be preserved for future generations. 
   And with that in mind, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Jefferson stood up in the old Senate Chamber, just across the Rotunda, there is a plaque that people can see today in the old Senate Chamber. Mr. Jefferson was known for giving speeches. And he had a very soft voice. He was a little hard to hear. Eloquent and magnificent writer that he was, he was a little hard to hear in public speeches. And he stood up in the Senate Chamber. There was a lot of strong emotion in the room, a lot of anger. John Adams did not even attend the inauguration. He was so angry. 
   And as a quick side note, if you have not seen or not watched the magnificent HBO series on John Adams, you should. Having not subscribed to HBO before, we did subscribe for a couple of months just for the sole purpose of seeing that magnificent production of David McCullough's biography of John Adams that Tom Hanks is responsible for, and a great, good thing that Tom Hanks has done for the Nation in bringing David McCullough's book to the Nation. It is a magnificent series, and I recommend it to you. 
   And you will see in there that John Adams was so upset by his defeat that he didn't even attend the inauguration of Thomas Jefferson. And Mr. Jefferson therefore stood up and gave this speech in a very, very tense atmosphere in the old Senate Chamber. There were a lot of angry people in the room. The Nation, frankly, at one point, when the 34 ballots were being cast in that deadlock, there was even discussion of the militia in Virginia going to the old armory there in Williamsburg and taking out weapons, a militia marching on Washington to ensure Mr. Jefferson's election because of this deadlock. 
   So tensions were high. Partisan feelings were strong. Yet Mr. Jefferson stood up and gave his inaugural address, his greatest speech at a time when the Nation truly could have been split apart. New England even talked about leaving the Union. 
   In that atmosphere, Mr. Jefferson stood up on March 4, 1801, and gave the following speech. 
   ``Called upon to undertake the duties of the first executive office of our country, I avail myself of the presence of that portion of my fellow-citizens which is here assembled to express my grateful thanks for the favor with which they have pleased to look toward me, to declare a sincere consciousness that the task is above my talents, and that I approach it with those anxious and awful presentiments which the greatness of the charge and the weakness of my powers so justly inspire. 
   ``A rising Nation, spread over a wide and fruitful land, traversing all the seas with the rich productions of their industry, engaged in commerce with nations who feel power and forget right, advancing rapidly to destinies beyond the reach of mortal eye--when I contemplate these transcendent objects, and see the honor, the happiness, and the hopes of this beloved country committed to the issue and auspices of this day, I shrink from the contemplation, and humble myself before the magnitude of the undertaking. 
   ``Utterly, indeed, should I despair did not the presence of many whom I see remind me that in the other high authorities provided by our Constitution I shall find resources of wisdom, of virtue and of zeal on which to rely under all difficulties. To you, then, gentlemen, who are charged with the sovereign functions of legislation, and to those associated with you, I look with encouragement for that guidance and support which may enable us to steer with safety the vessel in which we are all embarked amidst the conflicting elements of a troubled world. 
   ``During the contest of opinion through which we have passed the animation of discussions and of exertions has sometimes worn an aspect which might impose on strangers unused to think freely and to speak and to write what they think, but this being now decided by the voice of the Nation, announced according to the rules of the Constitution, all will, of course, arrange themselves under the will of the law, and unite in common efforts for the common good: 
   ``All, too, will bear in mind this sacred principle, that though the will of the majority is in all cases to prevail, that will, to be rightful must be reasonable; that the minority possess their equal rights, which equal law must protect, and to violate will be oppression. 
   ``Let us, then, fellow-citizens, unite with one heart and one mind. Let us restore to social intercourse that harmony and affection without which liberty and even life itself are but dreary things. And let us reflect that having banished from our land that religious intolerance under which mankind so long bled and suffered, we have yet  gained little if we countenance a political intolerance as despotic, as wicked, and capable of as bitter and bloody persecutions. 
   ``During the throes and convulsions of the ancient world, during the agonizing spasms of infuriated man, seeking through blood and slaughter his long-lost liberty, it was not wonderful that the agitation of the billows should reach even this distant and peaceful shore; that this should be felt and feared by some and less by others, and should divide opinions as to measures of safety. 
   ``But every difference of opinion is not a difference of principle. We have called by different names brethren of the same principle. We are all Republicans, we are all Federalists. If there be any among us who would wish to dissolve this Union or to change its Republican form, let them stand undisturbed as monuments of the safety with which error of opinion may be tolerated where reason is left free to combat it. I know, indeed, that some honest men fear that a Republican government cannot be strong, that this government is not strong enough; but would the honest patriot in the full tide of successful experiment, abandon a government which has so far kept us 
   free and firm on the theoretic and visionary fear that this government, the world's best hope, may by possibility want energy to preserve itself? I trust not. On the contrary, I believe this, the strongest government on Earth. I believe it is the only one where every man, at the call of the law, would fly to the standard of the law, and would meet invasions of the public order as his own personal concern. Sometimes it is said that man cannot be trusted with the government of himself. Can he, then, be trusted with the government of others? Or have we found angels in the form of kings to govern him? Let history answer this question. 
   ``Let us, then, with courage and confidence pursue our own Federal and Republican principles, our attachment to union and representative government. Kindly separated by nature and a wide ocean from the exterminating havoc of one-quarter of the globe; too high-minded to endure the degradations of others; possessing a chosen country, with room enough for our descendants to the thousandth and thousandth generation; entertaining a due sense of our equal right to the use of our own faculties, to the acquisitions of our own industry, to honor and confidence from our fellow-citizens, resulting not from birth, but from our actions and their sense of them; enlightened by a benign religion, professed, indeed, and practiced in various forms, yet all of them inculcating honesty, truth, temperance, gratitude and the love of man; acknowledging and adoring an overruling Providence, which by all its dispensations proves that it delights in the happiness of man here and his greater happiness hereafter--with all these blessings, what more is necessary to make us a happy and prosperous people? Still one thing more, fellow-citizens--a wise and frugal government, which shall restrain men from injuring one another, shall leave them otherwise free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government, and this is necessary to close the circle of our felicities. 
   ``About to enter, fellow-citizens, on the exercise of duties which comprehend everything dear and valuable to you, it is proper you should understand what I deem the essential principles of our government, and consequently those which ought to shape its administration. I will compress them within the narrowest compass they will bear, stating the general principle, but not all its limitations. 
   ``Equal and exact justice to all men, of whatever state or persuasion, religious or political; 
   ``Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none; 
   ``The support of the State governments in all their rights, as the most competent administrations of our domestic concerns and the surest bulwarks against anti-Republican tendencies; 
   ``The preservation of the general government in its whole constitutional vigor, as the sheet anchor of our peace at home and safety abroad; 
   ``A jealous care of the right of election by the people--a mild and safe corrective of abuses which are lopped by the sword of revolution where peaceable remedies were unprovided; 
   ``Absolute acquiescence in the decisions of the majority, the vital principle of Republics, from which there is no appeal but to force, the vital principle and immediate parent of despotism; 
   ``A well-disciplined militia, our best reliance in peace and for the first moments of war till regulars may relieve them; 
   ``The supremacy of the civil over the military authority; 
   ``Economy in the public expense, that labor may be lightly burdened; 
   ``The honest payment of our debts and sacred preservation of the public faith; 
   ``Encouragement of agriculture, and of commerce as its handmaid; 
   ``The diffusion of information and arraignment of all abuses at the bar of public reason; 
   ``Freedom of religion; 
   ``Freedom of the press; 
   ``And freedom of person under the proceedings of habeas corpus, and trial by juries impartially selected. 
   ``These principles form the bright constellation which has gone before us and guided our steps through an age of revolution and reformation. The wisdom of our sages and blood of our heroes have been devoted to their attainment. They should be the creed of our political faith, the text of civic instruction, the touchstone by which to try the services of those we trust; and should we wander from them in moments of error or of alarm, let us hasten to retrace our steps and to regain the road with alone leads to peace, liberty and safety.     
   ``I repair, then, fellow-citizens, to the post you have assigned me. With experience enough in subordinate offices to have seen the difficulty of this the greatest of all, I have learnt to expect that it will rarely fall to the lot of imperfect man to retire from this station with the reputation and with the favor which bring him into it. 
   ``Without pretensions to that high confidence you reposed in our first and greatest revolutionary character, whose preeminent services had entitled him to first place in his country's love and destined for him the fairest page in the volume of faithful history, I ask so much confidence only as may give firmness and effect to the legal administration of your affairs. 
   ``I shall often go wrong through defect of judgment. When right, I shall often be thought wrong by those whose positions will not command a view of the whole ground. I ask your indulgence for my own errors, which will never be intentional, and your support against the errors of others, who may condemn what they would not if seen in all its parts. The approbation implied by your suffrage is a great consolation to me for the past, and my future solicitude will be to retain the good opinion of those who have bestowed it in advance, to conciliate that of others by doing them all the good in my power, and to be instrumental to the happiness and freedom of all. 
   ``Relying, then, on the patronage of your good will, I advance with obedience to the work, ready to retire from it whenever you become sensible how much better choice it is in your power to make. And may that Infinite Power which rules the destiny of the universe lead our councils to what is best, and give them a favorable issue for your peace and prosperity.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, Mr. Jefferson's first inaugural address holds so much wisdom for us today at the start of the 21st century, just as it did at the start of the 19th century, as surely his core principles are the touchstone by which I measure my work on behalf of the people of District 7. And in reading his magnificent speech today, I want to honor this great, good man, to celebrate his 265th birthday, to recognize Thomas Jefferson's genius, his contribution to this Nation, and to recommit myself in the service of the people of District 7 to the core principles of Jeffersonian Republicanism, through which I have absolutely no doubt we will dig ourselves out of this immense fiscal hole we find ourselves in and restore the hope that Mr. Jefferson had for the future.  
   After all, this is the greatest country ever created in the history of the world, and I have no doubt that the future is limitless for us as Americans. 
   I am proud to yield back the balance of my time and turn the floor over to my good friend, my colleague, someone I admire immensely, a fellow Jeffersonian, ROSCOE BARTLETT of Maryland. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Chairman, every American is born with an innate sense of fairness and what is right and wrong. This case, more than any other, has struck a chord among Americans as being fundamentally unjust and flat wrong; that two law enforcement officers who swore an oath to protect this Nation, who were out on that violent Texas-Mexico border to protect this Nation against criminals and terrorists, every American understands the case where the two Border Patrol agents doing their job are thrown in prison for 11 and 12 years, and the drug smuggler goes free with a visa to pass back and forth as often as he wants. And the drug smuggler sues us, the taxpayers, for millions of dollars. Every American gets that. 
   I have never seen a level of outrage among my constituents and really across the country on any issue as there has been on this issue of freeing Border Patrol Agents Ramos and Compean. 
   It is patently unfair these two men, whatever you may say about the circumstances of the case, if they improperly picked up shell casings, they did not report the shooting, it is an administrative violation. At most you fire them from their job. But to be sentenced to 10 to 12 years in prison, these two law enforcement officers, to be sentenced to prison for 10 to 12 years is an outrage. It is just, it is unfair. The drug smuggler to this day is free. 
   As Judge POE said, the drug smuggler ran another load of dope into the United States, and the DEA knew about it during the trial of this case. This guy ran more drugs into the United States, and the prosecutor ordered the DEA not to arrest him and let him go free. 
   Every American understands this case. People may not have understood the Nigerian oil barge transfer and the Enron case; everybody gets this one. And the Congress, I am very proud to stand here tonight with many, many other Members of Congress who have asked the President first to pardon these two officers. And now that they are in prison and have suffered so much and have lost everything, many of my colleagues, who you will hear speak, have joined together in writing a letter and asking the President, and we reiterate that call tonight, Mr. Chairman, asking the President to commute the sentences of two Border Patrol agents, Ramos and Compean, for the same reason that he commuted the case of Scooter Libby. 
   In the case of Scooter Libby, the President said the sentence did not fit the crime. Certainly that is true here. If they picked up shell casings and didn't report the shooting, you don't go to prison for 10 and 11 years. In the case of Scooter Libby, the President said Scooter Libby had already suffered enough. Clearly these two Border Patrol agents have already suffered enough. They have lost everything. Their lives have been destroyed. They have been thrown in prison. It is just simply wrong for their incarceration to continue another day. 
   For whatever reason, the White House is turning a deaf ear on the call of the American people, the overwhelming outrage of the American people to have these two men released from prison. So what other choice do we have, Mr. Chairman, as Members of Congress, but to cut off the funding to the Bureau of Prisons to incarcerate them? We cannot as Members of Congress send a stronger signal to the White House and to the American people how committed we are to protecting this border and standing behind our law enforcement agents, and letting the Border Patrol agents know that we are proud of them and support the work that they are doing for the sake of our children and for the sake of our constituents. We understand clearly that we will never win the war on terror until we have truly protected our borders.     
   The border today is unprotected and wide open. If you cross in Arizona, you won't even be arrested the first 15 times you cross over. You're going to be put right back across the border. 
   If you cross in Brownsville, an agent told us on a trip just a couple of weeks ago, Brownsville will only arrest an illegal alien if they come up and knock on the window of the vehicle. 
   But yet, right next door in Del Rio, thank God Del Rio is arresting everybody. In Del Rio, using existing law and existing resources, Federal Judge Alia Ludlum, Border Patrol Sector Chief Randy Hill are arresting every single illegal alien crossing the border in Del Rio. They have zero tolerance for illegal aliens crossing in Del Rio. The local community loves it because it keeps the streets safe, the schools safe, the business community thriving. The illegal crossings have plummeted, burglaries have plummeted, and the result in Del Rio is peace and quiet. Yet, right next door in Brownsville there's chaos. 
   So, we all of us have a stake as Americans. In winning the war on terror, you've got to secure the border. No better way to secure the border than enforce existing law, and the best way to make sure that our agents out there in the field know that they're going to have the support of the American people is for the President to step up and commute the sentences of these two border patrol agents. 
   Until that happens, it is up to us here in Congress to do all that we can to send a message to every border patrol agent that we're doing everything within our power, officers of the law, to support you, to tell you we're proud of you. You are in front lines of the war on terror on the border, just as our soldiers are in Iraq. 
   I urge the Members of the House to support Mr. Poe's amendment so we can stop the funding of the incarceration of these two agents and send as strong as possible a message to the White House and, frankly, also to every law enforcement agent in the field that we're proud of you and that we want you to protect our border. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Chairman, I am not sure what standard the gentleman from Arizona follows, but as a member of the Appropriations Committee, as a guardian of the public Treasury, representing the people of Houston, I have approached all spending requests from the perspective as someone who has a second mortgage on the house and all the credit cards are topped out. My starting answer on all spending requests is ``no,'' and ``yes'' has to be earned. 
   I have published all of my appropriations requests on my Web site for many years. I published both my request letters as well as the final result of those requests that the members of the committee have graciously agreed to support because they know that any request coming from me and my office has already been carefully screened. I won't submit requests that haven't already passed my very careful scrutiny. 
   Again, I approach the request from the perspective of there is not enough money in the Treasury to do it; the starting answer is ``no,'' and ``yes'' has to be earned; the request has to fall within the functions of the Federal Government, and it has to be something for which there is no other source of revenue. 
   I am proud to represent the Texas Medical Center. I am proud to represent the Houston Zoo. This $300,000 will be used by the zoo. They are matching it, providing a 3-1 private match to these dollars that are going to go exclusively into providing live video feeds to critically ill children and children that are dying of cancer who otherwise would have no interaction with the outside world. 
   The Texas Medical Center is recognized around the world as probably the greatest concentration of medical talent anywhere in the world. God forbid anybody within the sound of my voice comes down with cancer or a dreaded disease; but if they do, there is no better place to find a cure for that than at the Texas Medical Center. 
   If you are a child with terrible burns, trapped in your room and unable to get out and visit the zoo personally, there  is no television channel in Houston for you to see what goes on at the zoo. The zoo is going to use these dollars to construct dedicated transmission facilities to these dying children, critically ill children in their hospital rooms so they can talk to the feeders, people actually working with the animals, observe the animals around the clock. And, certainly, your mental attitude is a tremendous part of getting well and recovering. 
   This request was the only one that I submitted on behalf of the Houston Zoo. They submitted a lot of requests to me. In fact, I think the appropriators will find that most of the requests from me will take about one page, because I am very careful and only submit a very few. I am proud of all of them. They are all on my Web site. And I can tell you, this is one that I am very grateful to the chairman Mr. Olver and to the ranking member Mr. Knollenberg for supporting. They know they don't get many requests from me, and this one certainly is one that is appropriate to help these dying and critically ill children revive their spirits in interacting with and seeing what marvelous work the Houston Zoo is doing, which is, of course, right next door to the Texas Medical Center. 
   Finally, I want to encourage Members to vote against this amendment based on the merits, but then also because the amendment doesn't save any money. I am one of the most fiscally conservative Members of this House and proud of it. I voted against all of these big new spending programs over the last many years, whether it be the farm bill; I voted against the farm bill, billions of dollars for AIDS in Africa as money we don't have; voted against the No Child Left Behind because that is an intrusion of the 10th amendment sovereignty of the States and money we can't afford to spend; voted against the Medicare prescription drug program. I have voted against most of the big spending programs that have been driven through this House, because I truly believe that I have got a responsibility to my daughter and future generations to try to keep Federal spending at a minimum, diminish the size, power, and cost to the Federal Government. 
   As Mr. Jefferson, my hero, said, apply core republican principles, with a small ``R,'' keeping most power and responsibility at the local level. If you apply core republican principles, the knot will always untie itself. 
   So I am always looking for ways to save money. So I would ask Members to vote against this amendment first on the merits; and then, secondly, because unfortunately, once again, Mr. Flake's amendment doesn't save any money. He is not reducing the overall 302(a) allocation of the bill. So this is another phantom savings that is not going to result in a savings of one nickel for taxpayers by cutting out the live video feeds to these dying and critically ill children in the medical center. 
   And I am sick and tired of phony amendments that act like they are going to save money. I have already scrutinized this, along with every other request from my office. I am proud of the work the zoo is doing and the work the medical center is doing. And you can expect me to be out here vigorously defending the work of this committee investing in the sciences. 
   I thank you, Chairman Obey. The chairman of my Subcommittee on the Sciences, Mr. Mollohan, is here. Our ranking member, Mr. Frelinghuysen of New Jersey. God bless them for the investments they are making into sciences and NASA and medical and scientific research. That is our Nation's insurance policy. I will be out here vigorously defending them against anyone attempting to cut those investments into sciences or NASA or in medical research. That is this Nation's insurance policy. 
   And I especially resent somebody coming out here and offering a phony amendment that is not going to save one nickel of taxpayer money; because this $300,000 is not being taken out of the overall spending, it is just going to be spent by bureaucrats. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Chairman, of all the irresponsible, bad ideas cooked up by the liberal leadership of the House, this has to be the blue ribbon boondoggle champion of bad ideas. This exposes the U.S. Treasury and the American taxpayers to a potential liability of up to $19 trillion of property from Maine to the Gulf Coast States. The flood insurance program is already, as we have heard, about, I believe, $20 billion in debt already, the flood insurance is already underfunded, and yet we are going through this legislation, if it passes, expose the American taxpayers to untold billion dollars worth of liability every year. And this is a public-private partnership. As my friend RANDY NEUGEBAUER of Texas pointed out, the insurance companies on the private sector's part are going to collect the premiums and the American taxpayers are going to pay the bill. 
   This is, I believe, one of the most dangerous and fiscally irresponsible pieces of legislation ever brought to the floor of the House probably in history, and certainly sets a blue ribbon record for the liberal leadership of this House. 
   We need to all remember as guardians of the Treasury that the American taxpayers are already facing individually, according to the Government Accountability Office, every living American would have to buy $170,000 worth of Treasury bills today just to pay off the existing liabilities of the Federal Government, both direct and indirect. And it is unconscionable, it is absolutely intolerable that this Congress, this liberal leadership of this House would attempt to pass on to my daughter and our kids a potential liability reaching $19 trillion. It is unacceptable, it is outrageous, and I hope this House will soundly defeat this utterly irresponsible piece of legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Chairman, I wanted to ask the author of the amendment and the author of the legislation, if they are here, if they could identify, please, for the Record, other than Social Security and Medicare, can you all identify any piece of legislation that has ever exposed the American taxpayer to greater potential liability than this bill before the House today? Can you all identify a bigger boondoggle than this one? And you can have some of my time. I will yield. Can anyone on that side identify a bigger boondoggle than this that will expose the taxpayers to greater liability? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Reclaiming my time. When people have more of their own money to spend, the economy grows because they invest and we are rewarding people for hard work and productive behavior. 
   Other than Social Security and Medicare, which are noble, good programs that have helped this Nation, other than those two, has there ever been a piece of legislation exposing the American taxpayer to greater potential liability than this boondoggle that you are putting before the House today? And I gladly yield some of my time, Mr. Taylor. Can you identify a bigger boondoggle than this one? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Reclaiming my time. The Republican leadership might have bent the rules to give American seniors a drug benefit; but we didn't break the rules and steal a vote, as you all did, to give illegal aliens access to Federal benefits. And that shows the difference in priorities, I would point out.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask the author of the amendment if she'd be willing to accept an amendment that we also ask the GAO to examine the effects on the taxpayers of the United States of all the perils created by this legislation and the financial risk this exposes the taxpayers too, because, again I think it's vitally important for this House to recognize that the potential liability this legislation exposes the taxpayer to, as Mr. Baker said earlier, there's about $19 trillion worth of insurable property around the coast of the United States. The flood insurance program's already $20 billion in debt, and the United States, according to the GAO, already faces potential liabilities, direct and indirect, not potential, direct and indirect liabilities of $50 trillion.     
   That works out to $170,000 per person. Every household in the United States would have to buy $440,000 worth of T bills today just to pay for the explicit and implicit liabilities of the United States. 
   And, finally, I would just remind the majority of something that my hero Thomas Jefferson said in his first inaugural address because of repeated attempts, this majority has shut out all amendments by the minority. Thomas Jefferson said that although the rule of the majority is in all cases to prevail, that rule to be rightful must be reasonable and must always protect the rights of the minority, which this majority has not done. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. I am glad we are considering this amendment to have FEMA give us a comprehensive report of the problems facing the flood insurance program. We already established that this legislation, in essence, is going to create a public-private partnership in which the insurance companies are going to collect the premium and the taxpayers are going to pay the bill. We have already established, as Mr. Baker pointed out earlier, that there is potentially $19 trillion worth of valuation of property out there along the coastlines that are, again, a risk that the taxpayers are assuming. The TRIA legislation, Terrorism Risk Insurance legislation that the liberal leadership of this House pushed through last week puts taxpayers potentially on the hook for $100 billion. 
   I wanted, if I could, to just get an answer to my question in the time that I have got. Other than Social Security and Medicare and not counting the Mars program that the chairman mentioned, because there is no such program, can the chairman or anyone else on that side identify a single piece of legislation that has created a bigger potential risk to the taxpayers than this bill? This, I won't say boondoggle, but this piece of legislation creates potentially trillions of dollars worth of liability. Is there any piece of legislation you can identify other than Social Security or Medicare that creates potentially trillions of dollars worth of liability to the taxpayers? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. In response to the distinguished chairman's point that the legislation requires that the program be actuarially sound, that is true that is in the bill that you produced here. However, the law also requires that the flood insurance program be actuarially sound. It is $20 billion in debt. The legislation before the House asked the Federal Government, the taxpayers, to assume a potential liability for the $19 trillion worth of insured property, a valuation of property just along the coastline. It is important to remember that the taxpayers of the United States are already facing liability of $50.5 trillion according to the Government Accountability Office. It is just irresponsible. It is dangerous to pass legislation like this, creating a massive new expansion of an existing program that is already $20 billion in debt at a time when the country faces massive debt and massive deficits. It is just irresponsible and dangerous. 
   I wanted to point out to the House and to the people out there listening, Mr. Chairman, that this legislation is fiscally irresponsible. It is dangerous. 
   Mr. Chairman, I urge the House to defeat it. It is a bad idea to pass on the liability like this to the taxpayers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (FLOOD INSURANCE REFORM AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. This is a brand new liability that we are passing on to my daughter and to the children of America, to the people of the United States who are already saddled with $15.5 trillion worth of liability, and it is just irresponsible. It is unacceptable. It is outrageous to create a massive new program like this that if it passes that could create, potentially, liability in the trillions of dollars. That is my point. There has never been a more expensive nor more massive creation of potential liability to the taxpayers than this legislation before the House today. That is my point. 
   Mr. Chairman, I urge every Member who cares about the fiscal solvency of the United States to vote ``no'' against this legislation. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Patrick J. Murphy). 
   The amendment was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I want to point out that this legislation is giving us the choice between bankrupting our children or bankrupting a few of these big financial institutions on Wall Street that made bad decisions. Now, my daughter didn't do anything to deserve this. I know what the banks on Wall Street did. 
   Look at the bill itself. Let me just point to a couple of sections in the brief 2 minutes that I've got to see that the Secretary of the Treasury is being given authority absolutely unprecedented in the history of this Nation. We're essentially creating a King Henry here who is going to be able to buy any type of financial instrument he wants from any financial institution anywhere in the world, anywhere in the world owned by anybody, the Secretary can step in using his authority to buy any troubled asset he wishes--not just limited to residential mortgage-backed securities--any financial  instrument owned by any foreign entity, any American entity anywhere in the world and, quote, the Secretary is authorized to take such actions as the Secretary deems necessary to carry out this act. 
   It is also unprecedented that you can't sue him to stop him. The judicial review section of this bill says that if you attempt to sue the Secretary, you can only overturn his decision if he does something that's arbitrary, capricious or an abuse of discretion, essentially something that's completely irrational. That's an absolutely unbelievable standard that gives the Secretary unbridled discretion, and you'll never be able to overturn or go after what he's doing in court. 
   It also allows the Federal Government for the first time, quoting from the bill here, page 28, the Federal property manager who holds, owns or controls mortgages even has the authority to get into negotiating and changing the terms of individual mortgages. It is an unprecedented, unaffordable and unacceptable expansion of Federal power that our kids cannot afford, that we have never seen in the history of this country, and I urge the Members to remember that there's a better alternative. 
   We, fiscal conservatives in the House, laid out sound alternatives that we need to take time to breathe and think about this and consider thoughtfully in committee. For example, just changing the mark-to-market accounting rule would make a tremendous difference. We could go in and examine, for example, why don't we repeal the capital gains tax and take it to zero as they do in so many other successful economies? 
   Don't vote to bankrupt our kids at the expense of saving some of the big Wall Street banks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Chairman, I also rise in support of Mr. McHenry's amendment, but I also want to thank my ranking member, the subcommittee chairman here. I serve on the Appropriations Committee, and Chairman Obey is correct: the committee has done a good job of making sure we had bills in front of us and opportunity for debate. 
   But I also want to reiterate Mr. Barton's point. He is absolutely right. The reason we're out here today and having this discussion is because we, each one of us, as Members of Congress have really a fiduciary, very deep and profound fiduciary responsibility to be good stewards of the taxpayers' dollars. And we're here debating an appropriations bill on how to spend those tax dollars. And the Agriculture Department has, an important part of its role is the taking, they have a role directly, for example, in the Texas Medical Center. And the nexus to this debate, Mr. Chairman, that I would certainly point out is, under this bill, the Department of Agriculture, for example, helps maintain the children's nutrition program at the Baylor College of Medicine, which I'm proud to represent. 
   The Agriculture Department, a key part of their responsibility is children's health. And it is highly relevant to talk about this Children's Health Insurance Program that the Democrat majority is attempting to shove through this Congress with very little debate, very little sunlight, which is always a dangerous sign. If they won't let you read the bill and they won't let you talk about it, it is sure going to contain serious problems. And I for one am deeply concerned about the tremendous expansion this bill proposes. The bill will, it is clear from what we have seen, take seniors off of Medicare and allow States to put illegal aliens on Medicare. The bill has no reasonable limits. The bill has no enforceable limits on age. The bill has no enforceable limits on income requirements. And the bill is also silent as to whether or not States can include illegal aliens in coverage. The bill will allow States to provide Medicare coverage at Federal taxpayers' expense to anyone the State chooses to cover. 
   Now, imagine what that means in the State of California where the Governor has already advocated and the legislature has advocated providing health care coverage to illegal aliens. And I say that in the context, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that all of us need to remember, every bill, every dollar we spend, that the Government Accountability Office has already calculated that in order to pay for the obligations of the Federal Government today, my overriding concern is that, in order to pay for the existing obligations of the Federal Government, the GAO has calculated, Mr. Farr, that each American would have to buy $155,000 worth of Treasury bills. That's how massive the existing obligations of the Federal Government are.     
   The existing obligations of the Federal Government are so massive that every living American would have to purchase $155,000 worth of Treasury bills, and that wouldn't even touch the national debt. That wouldn't even touch the interest on the national debt. And yet the Democrat majority has attempted to jam through a bill here that we don't even really know the ultimate cost. 
   Mr. Barton estimates that if the States expand coverage as far as they could to pick up illegal aliens and people of any age group or income group, but if Mr. Barton is correct, and I think it is reasonable that there is no real way to calculate how much this bill costs, we are adding a monstrous and inexcusable financial debt on the back backs of our children. 
   You are taking away Medicare coverage from seniors and allowing States to give it to illegal aliens. This is outrageous, it is unacceptable, it is unaffordable, and you are going to break the back of the taxpayers of this country. 
   And I, for one, will stand at this microphone and all of us have an obligation to stand up here like Horatio at the gates of Rome. If this is the only place that I can stand and fight, I will stand and fight here as long as it takes to protect the Treasury and the taxpayers of this country from irresponsible, irresolute spendthrift practices of the majority of this House, and I won't stand for it. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (CONGRESS MUST BALANCE THE BUDGET -- (House of Representatives - April 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Madam Speaker, in our personal lives, when we have our credit cards topped out, when we have a second mortgage on the home, we quit spending money. We balance our own personal budget and we focus on the essentials. And this Congress needs to do the same thing. But, unfortunately, the Obama-Clinton-Pelosi Democratic leadership of the Congress is driving America's economy right over the cliff, like Thelma and Louise, spending money and raising taxes. 
   The Comptroller of the United States has certified that we are in a $54 trillion hole; that in order to pay that off, every American would have to write a check for $175,000. This is outrageous. It is unsupportable. 
   We need to adopt FRANK WOLF's legislation with Mr. Cooper, making sure that Social Security is solvent, that we balance the Federal budget as rapidly as possible. Above all, this Congress has got to quit spending money on unnecessary things, focus on the bare essentials and quit raising taxes on the American people. Above all, let's not shift all of that liability that is now apparent on Wall Street, this $1 trillion writeoff that the banks are attempting to shift on to the United States Treasury. We cannot do it. We have got to quit spending money and balance the budget. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - March 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Thank you, Mr. Ryan. 
   Mr. Chairman, the American people face the greatest financial challenge we have ever encountered in the history of the Nation. The free people of Great Britain overcame the greatest challenge they ever faced in their history during the early days of the Second World War because Winston Churchill told them the truth. 
   They won the Battle of Britain because they were told by their leaders the truth, and they could deal with the truth as Americans can deal with the truth, but we have got to be told the truth. Today at 5 o'clock, unfortunately, one of our great public servants retired, the Comptroller General of the United States. David Walker, when he left work today, has moved on to the private sector. 
   David Walker is a great public servant who has told the truth, and I want to reiterate it here on this House floor, how urgently important it is for the majority that now that controls this House to step up and accept responsibility for dealing with this great financial challenge that David Walker has laid out for us that we in the old Republican majority lost the majority because we did not deal with it. 
   That's why you saw conservatives like me and many of my colleagues here today vote against Medicare prescription drugs, vote against the farm bill, vote against all the expansions of the government that took place over the last 7 years because we saw this challenge. 
   Mr. Chairman, I have a letter from David Walker, Comptroller General of the United States, dated March 13, 2008, which I would enter into the Record.  
   U.S. GOVERNMENT 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (CHILDREN'S HEALTH AND MEDICARE PROTECTION ACT OF 2007--Continued -- (House of Representatives - August 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, everyone who is about to vote for this bill needs to read it. 
   Mr. Speaker, on page 3 of the bill, on the bottom of the page, each State is going to conduct its own audit of eligibility of people that they are providing federally funded health insurance for. 
   Now, we know already the State of California has said they want to provide health insurance coverage to all children in the State, regardless of whether they are here legally or not. But they can't do that. California cannot extend health insurance to people who are undocumented, because Federal law currently requires that you must prove you are here legally or that you are a citizen under existing law. But this bill repeals that verification requirement. The bill specifically allows each State ``shall audit itself.'' 
   Under State law, States can use any verification method they wish to determine whether or not somebody is a citizen or they are here legally. Obviously, this law repeals the verification requirement and allows the State to provide health insurance coverage to people who are here illegally or undocumented aliens. In fact, there is no way to even verify their income level. 
   This is an open-ended faucet that the States are going to be able to tap into the Federal treasury. This is a creation of ``HillaryCare'' where everyone in this Nation under the age of 25, we are going to kick seniors off of Medicaid and Medicare and allow States to sign up people who are undocumented aliens for the first time in this Nation's history, at a time of record debt, record deficit, and at a time the taxpayers cannot afford it. 
   Mr. Speaker, this spendthrift majority is going to bankrupt this Nation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (NASA 50TH ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume in support of H.R. 2750. 
   I want to, first of all, thank the chairman of the committee, Chairman Frank, for his insistence in bringing this bill to the floor throughout this process. I want to thank my colleague from Houston, Congresswoman SHEILA JACKSON-LEE. Thank you so much, SHEILA. It's been a pleasure working with you on this important bill honoring the 50th anniversary of NASA, an organization whose exploration of outer space has truly touched the lives and hearts, I think, of every American today, can relate to the experience I know so many Americans had on the 31st of January, 1958, when the very first U.S. satellite, Explorer 1, was launched into orbit. In response to the Soviet Union's launching of Sputnik, the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, which had been set up under the guidance of the United States Army, put together Explorer 1 and built it and launched it. And before the year was out, Congress had created the National Aeronautics and Space Administration on December 3, 1958. 
   So next year is a golden anniversary for NASA, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration has given the people of the United States many, many things to be proud of. NASA has gone on to explore, from that first launch of that first satellite, the entire solar system and much of the visible universe with the help of the Hubble Space Telescope and the Spitzer Space Telescope. 
   We now have telescopes in orbit, Madam Speaker, around the Earth that have identified up to 160 planets around other solar systems. NASA has discovered, with the Mars Rovers, that liquid water not only once existed on the surface of Mars, but it appears that there are large frozen lakes on Mars today. 
   We have landed on the surface of the moon, Titan. We not only landed men on the moon with a very successful Apollo program, but we are today, under President Bush's vision and the leadership of our new NASA administrator, Mike Griffin, rapidly moving towards the day very soon when men and women will return to the surface of the moon. 
   The accomplishments of NASA, JPL, and all of the research labs under NASA are absolutely extraordinary, but this exploration has not come without loss. As with all exploration that is new, it has been dangerous. On January 27, 1967, America tragically lost three Apollo astronauts on the launch pad because of a fire in Apollo I. Changes were made to the program, and the spacecraft became much safer and we moved on and beyond that terrible tragedy. And then of course we lost the Space Shuttle Challenger on January 28, 1986, with its entire crew, a terrible day that I know many of us remember. And then most recently, tragically, on February 1, 2003, the Space Shuttle Columbia was lost during reentry with its entire seven-man crew. 
   Therefore, in the design of this coin set, my coauthor and I, Congresswoman Jackson-Lee, have proposed that the centerpiece of the coin will be a $50 high-relief-proof gold piece that will honor the lives of the astronauts who have lost their lives in the exploration of space. On that $50 gold piece will be an image of the sun. Then arranged around it will be nine silver-proof dollars, each one representing a different planet in our solar system and each one commemorating missions to that planet as put together by each of the different NASA centers. And the silver dollar for the planet Earth will of course have on the reverse side a design emblematic of the Apollo mission as well as Earth orbital missions. 
   This commemorative coin set, Madam Speaker, is just one small piece of ongoing work that Congress is doing in support of NASA. And it's really difficult to measure the value of what NASA has done for the United States and for all mankind in exploring space. Asking what NASA has done for the United States and for all of humanity is a little like the question facing Americans 200 years ago when Congress authorized the Lewis and Clark Expedition. No one knew at the time what Lewis and Clark might find. They didn't know what resources might lie out there. They did not know what the unchartered blank spots on the western American map would yield. And it was impossible, 200 years ago, to measure the value of the discoveries, the minerals, the animal species, the incredible new horizons that Lewis and Clark would discover; no way to measure that. 
   And I think equally here today, Americans standing on the brink of the 21st century cannot place a value or measure on the discoveries that the men and women of NASA, our brave astronaut core and all the scientists and engineers who work at NASA, the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Goddard, the Applied Physics Lab, and all the research centers around the country that have helped the American space program lead the world. 
   I am very proud to be a lead coauthor on this bill and helping honor the men and women of NASA and the extraordinary discoveries that NASA has made, and also to remind Americans of the value we each enjoy with miniaturization of computers, medical technology, heart pumps, valves, power generators, image processing, cell phone technology, CAT scanners, MRI machines. All of the extraordinary technological innovations that we touch on a daily basis have come from our work on the space program. 
   I am proud to be here today with my coauthor, Congresswoman SHEILA JACKSON-LEE, on a bill that is strongly supported in a bipartisan way. It was passed unanimously last Congress. I am confident we will enjoy that kind of support today for this coin set honoring NASA's 50th anniversary. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (NASA 50TH ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. If I could yield quickly for a point of legislative intent clarification. 
   I notice the intent of my cosponsor that these centers, and I agree completely, they all need to be recognized and honored, but of course the front of the coin is going to represent each one of the nine planets. And it is your intent, as I know it is mine, that the reverse of the coin reflect and honor the research center that contributed to missions to that particular planet is what I'm confident you mean. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, the vote today is very simple: Will America give up and walk away from the fight to preserve American civilization? Are we proud of our military and will we support them and protect them in time of war? 
   The people of Houston's District Seven are immensely proud of the men and women of our Armed Forces. We want our soldiers and their commanders and our Commander in Chief to know that we will always support them and to know that we will do our best to protect them, especially in time of war; and we thank them for keeping us safe and free from another terrorist attack for 1,985 days. 
   Therefore, Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the people of Houston's District Seven, I will vote no, to tell our enemies and our friends that Americans will never quit and Americans will never surrender in the fight to preserve, protect, and defend American freedom. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (DRILL IN AMERICA AND BRING DOWN THE PRICE OF GAS -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, I want to urge the Speaker of the House to join with our leader, John Boehner, in lowering the price of gasoline. They can do it immediately simply by holding a press conference and announcing we're going to work together in a nonpartisan way for the good of America to open up domestic energy sources by drilling in the United States. We're the only Nation on the face of the Earth that will not use our own natural resources. This is just fundamental common sense. Schlumberger and Shell have said that there is more shale oil in three Western States than all the oil in the Middle East combined. 
   We could open up the Arctic National Wildlife Reserve. Congress now can move, and in a bipartisan way, to bring down the price of oil simply by announcing we're moving to open up these domestic sources. The marketplace will respond and the price of gas and the price of oil will drop. This is so simple, it's so easy, it's so good for America. 
   Let's all stand together without regard to party for the benefit of this Nation, which is hurting so much from high gas prices, and say we are going to use American resources for America to create good, high-paying American jobs. 
   Drill in America in a safe, environmentally clean way, and bring down the price of gas today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (NASA 50TH ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleagues. Our pride and support for NASA is, indeed, bipartisan. Without regard to where we come from in this Nation or our party origins, we share that great pride in the accomplishments of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. They've touched our lives in so many ways. I have always admired NASA, particularly as an amateur astronomer, as a native Houstonian. 
   Mr. Price is right. I have passed this bill the last two Congresses, and for whatever reason, it has had problem escaping the gravitational pull of the Senate. And with the help of my good friend, Al Green, and Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee we passed it again this year. 
   This is going to be a remarkable and beautiful coin set that will contain a $50 high relief gold coin commemorating the lives lost in space. Those astronauts who gave their lives will be honored and recognized in that $50 high relief gold coin, with on the front coin a scientifically accurate image of the Sun and the reverse, a design commemorating those astronauts' sacrifice. 
   The other coins will represent each one of the planets in the solar system, with the front of the coin with a scientifically accurate image of that planet and then the reverse of the coin with a design honoring the NASA flight center that was responsible for missions to that planet. 
   And then, of course, now that Pluto has been called a dwarf planet, the Pluto coin will have a reverse that honors the Hubble telescope and the Goddard Space Flight Center and the remarkable achievements of the Hubble telescope. 
   The proceeds of this coin will go to fund the NASA Families Assistance Fund. Those families who have lost a loved one in the space program will benefit directly from the sale of these coins. 
   The Ronald McNair Education Science Literary Foundation will benefit from the sale of these coins. The Challenger Center for Space Science Education to increase interest in math, science and technology will benefit from the sale of this coin. And then finally, the Smithsonian Institute, National Air and Space Museum, will benefit from the sale of this coin. 
   And because of the difficulties with the gravitational pull of the Senate, as my friend Mr. Price so eloquently points out, because this authorization bill is coming out a little late this year, the changes the Senate made are good ones, and that is to allow the Mint to sell the coins this year through December 31 of 2008, but to continue to mint them through next year so that people will have a chance to order them and the Mint will have plenty of time to complete the designs and to market them. 
   It is going to be a beautiful set that the Mint estimates will raise a great deal of money for the benefit of the families, the benefit of these educational funds, and for the benefit of the National Air and Space Museum. 
   I'm very grateful to my colleagues from Texas, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee, my good friend Al Green, and my good friend Congressman Tom Price of the Georgia delegation, next to Texas my favorite delegation in the United States Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (NASA 50TH ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. I thank the gentleman for yielding because I wanted to point out to the House some of the remarkable research that NASA is doing. In fact, at Rice University in Houston, Texas that my friend Al Green and I and Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee are proud to represent Rice University, they're developing a quantum wire, with the help of NASA, using carbon nanotubes that transmit electricity ballistically with zero resistance, essentially room temperature superconductors that will allow the storage and transmission of electricity in ways we cannot even imagine today, carrying electricity in a wire the width of your little finger 10 to 20 times the electricity carried in those giant overhead power lines from Los Angeles to New York with no loss of electricity. 
   NASA research at Rice University with the quantum wire and carbon nanotubes will increase the efficiency of solar cells so dramatically that, for example, when you put carbon nanotubes into a solar cell, you increase the efficiency to 60 and 70 percent. 
   So commemorating NASA today, we're commemorating the great technological advances that NASA has  brought to all of us as Americans today. My wife often teases me about all these electronic devices I carry to communicate with my district on Quick.com and Twiter.com--and let me see, I've got one in this pocket right here. 
   We all benefit from the technological research that NASA does, but the future holds greater promise for us, with the carbon nanotube work and combining that with solar cell technology, truly holds the promise of making America energy independent in the years to come. 
   But in the meantime, my friend from Georgia is exactly right, we need to drill here, drill now, and we will certainly pay less. And the Congress is all that's standing in the way of drilling here and drilling now. And I hope they will give us a vote on that. 
   But in the meantime, today we can honor the great technological achievements of NASA and the carbon nanotube research that holds the promise for making America energy independent in the long term. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (WAR SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING -- (House of Representatives - May 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, it is approximately 2:10 p.m. on the east coast, and in less than 24 hours, the Speaker of the House has announced that she is going to drop on this House floor a $250 billion spending bill for the United States war against terror. 
   It has always been the policy of this Nation that party labels end at the water's edge. Until today, it has always been the policy of this House that the Members of this House were given the privilege and opportunity of debating in committee and offering amendments. 
   On legislation as important as funding a war for the survival of the American people and a war against barbarians from the Dark Ages, this House of Representatives has been shut out. It's appalling, it's embarrassing, it's outrageous, it's unacceptable for the Speaker of the House and the chairman of the Appropriations Committee to be the only two people in this institution allowed to see the bill. No one has seen the bill. 
   All 300 million Americans have been shut out of this appropriations process to fund our soldiers. To ensure their protection and survival in the field, to ensure the survival of this Nation, this entire House of Representatives needs to be involved, and the country needs to know that this Speaker is running this House like the Supreme Soviet. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (COAST GUARD AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Madam Chairman, I won't take the whole time. Just to tell you I just returned from a briefing at the Coast Guard with Admiral Allen. They brought this to my attention. One of these vehicles can carry up to a billion dollars worth of drugs. They can carry weapons of mass destruction. 
   If the vessel sinks before the Coast Guard can get on it, they lose all the evidence. So this is a vitally important amendment to the Coast Guard to enforce our laws and protect this Nation. And I hope we will all support it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (MERIDA INITIATIVE TO COMBAT ILLICIT NARCOTICS AND REDUCE ORGANIZED CRIME AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, at a time of record national debt and deficit, at a time when gasoline prices are now well over $4, when oil is over $130 a barrel and Mexico is sitting on one of the largest oil reserves in the world, it is inexcusable, it is intolerable for us to send one dime to the Mexican Government when they can afford to pay for this equipment themselves. 
   But even more importantly than that, our southern border not secure. We should not send a dime to Mexico until our own American law enforcement officers have the resources they need to secure the border once and for all; not one dime to Mexico until the American border is secure. 
   I am going to call for a record vote on this bill, because we need to defeat this legislation until our southern border is secure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (WELCOMING DR. CHARLES B. SIMMONS -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Thank you, Madam Speaker. 
   It's my privilege to rise today to honor my pastor and my good friend, Dr. Charles B. Simmons, our chaplain for the day. 
   Dr. Simmons joins us from my hometown of Houston, Texas, and it is just a thrill to have him here today. Dr. Simmons baptized our daughter, Caroline. He has been our minister for many, many years at Memorial Drive United Methodist Church. 
   He is joined here today by his wife, Carol; his son, Christopher; and Christopher's wife, Melissa. We are thrilled to have them here. Dr. Simmons and his wife, Carol, also have a son, Jeffrey, who is not here with us today. 
   Dr. Simmons is serving in his 10th year as senior minister of Memorial Drive United Methodist Church. He is recognized nationally as a dynamic minister, a dedicated pastor and respected leader among Methodists. He led the way at our church to reach out to the people of Louisiana who suffered as a result of the hurricane and helped rescue many, many lives and put many lives back on track after that devastating storm. 
   Dr. Simmons is a native of Louisiana, a graduate of Centenary College, who earned his master of divinity and doctor of ministry degrees from Emory University, and completed his further graduate study in Geneva, Switzerland, as a Methodist fellow. He has served in a variety of appointments, and his leadership has enriched the lives of our congregation and grown our church now to 7,000 members of Memorial Drive United Methodist Church. 
   We are very proud to have him here. His leadership has been instrumental in developing The Connection Center, an off-campus site serving as an outpost for ministry with state-of-the-art facilities for senior adult and youth programs. We have also founded, under Dr. Simmons' leadership, a third site at the former Shepherd Drive United Methodist Church which is now in operation as well. 
   Outside of our local congregation, Dr. Simmons also serves as chair of the Texas Conference Board of Ordained Ministry, a member of the Large Church Initiative Team, and is active in both the administrations of Centenary College and Emory University. 
   With deep appreciation for his leadership to Memorial Drive United Methodist Church, his devotion to its members and his beneficial efforts to the community at large, it is my privilege to welcome Dr. Simmons and his family to Washington. I am honored to have him here today as our guest chaplain. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (REJECT AMNESTY FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS -- (House of Representatives - May 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, as Members of Congress return home for the Memorial Day weekend, as we honor the sacrifices of our men and women who have given their lives in defense of our Nation and of its values, I hope that every American will remind their elected representatives that in honoring that sacrifice, our elected representatives have an obligation to uphold the rule of law, to preserve our borders and to preserve this Nation's financial security for the future. 
   In so doing, every American ought to demand that their elected representatives reject this monstrous amnesty bill, which proposes to legalize 14 to 20 million illegal aliens, honoring those who have broken our laws, threatening the financial security of the Nation by more rapidly bankrupting Social Security and all of our financial social welfare programs, and driving this Nation more rapidly towards that financial brick wall which is so rapidly approaching. 
   In my office, 100 percent of the phone calls received have been in strong opposition to this bill. Every other Member of Congress from the Republican side that I have visited has received equally strong opposition. 
   I think it is vitally important for Americans to rise up, as we did in the Dubai ports deal, and demand that our elected representatives honor the sacrifices of our fallen soldiers by rejecting this mass amnesty bill over the Memorial Day break. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (OPERATION STREAMLINE -- (House of Representatives - June 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Speaker Cuellar, it's perfectly appropriate that you're in the chair today because you and I have served together in the Texas House, and we have worked together, Mr. Speaker, in cooperation with our friend, Congressman Ciro Rodriguez of Del Rio. You and I and Ciro have worked together to successfully implement a program that I want to single out for praise tonight. 
   In the Laredo sector and the Del Rio sector, the immigration laws of this country are being enforced with a zero tolerance in a program called Operation Streamline. With the full support of the local community that you represent, Mr. Speaker, because the crime rate in Laredo has dropped 70 percent--excuse me; in Del Rio we have seen a 70 percent drop. I think you have seen about a 60 percent drop in the crime rate in the Laredo sector as a direct result of simply enforcing existing law in a team effort, Mr. Speaker, between the Border Patrol, the U.S. Marshals, the prosecutors, the judges, the magistrates, and the sheriffs, with their local Congressman, Congressman Cuellar. You, Mr. Speaker, Ciro Rodriguez, and myself on the Appropriations Committee, we have been able to bring together that team approach in a bipartisan way that has resulted in a dramatic decline in the crime rate. The illegal crossings in the Del Rio sector are now at the lowest level they have been since the Border Patrol started keeping statistics in 1973. 
   I bring this to the attention of the House tonight, Mr. Speaker, first of all, to congratulate and praise those fine men and women in the law enforcement community of the Border Patrol in Del Rio and Laredo, also in the Yuma sector, where this is working so well. In particular, in the Laredo and Del Rio sectors we have seen real success because of the teamwork of those law enforcement officers and the judges and the cooperation we have seen at an unprecedented level between members of both parties in making sure the community and the Nation are safe in those sectors. 
   I am working with you now, Mr. Speaker, as well as with the local Members of Congress in rolling out Operation Streamline, it's called, the zero tolerance program, in the Rio Grande Valley sector. So that the goal is, of course, from the mouth of the Rio Grande now, up through the Del Rio sector, Lake Amastad, that the border will be secure. 
   Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, it is a very different story in Tucson, Arizona. In Tucson, Arizona, the local U.S. Attorney refuses to enforce existing law, and in Tucson, if you are arrested by the Border Patrol, for example, in Del Rio or Laredo, you have a 100 percent chance of being prosecuted and serving some time in jail, obviously  with the exception of women and children. The officer will use their good judgment and their good heart. 
   But if you're arrest in Del Rio or Laredo, you're going to jail. If you're arrested in Tucson, Arizona, Mr. Speaker, carrying less than a quarter ton of dope, you have a 99.6 percent chance of nerve going to jail, and you will probably be home in time for dinner. 
   It's an unbelievable and outrageous situation that I have worked on behind the scenes as quietly as I can with the Department of Justice, with the U.S. Attorney out there, Diane Humetewa, who refuses to met with me, who refuses to talk to me, who refuses to cooperate. She, to this day, Mr. Speaker, refuses to do anything to improve the prosecution rate in the Arizona sector of the border. As a result, those officers' lives are in danger. As a result of her refusal to enforce the law, the lives of the people of Arizona are in danger. This Nation is in danger because of the refusal of the U.S. Attorney in Arizona, Diane Humetewa, to do her job. 
   Frankly, I am sick and tired of it, and it needs to be brought to the attention of the American people here on the floor because we have found a bipartisan solution to this. We have found a solution that people on the border support. 
   You represent the Laredo sector, Mr. Speaker. I know your community, the people you represent are thrilled with the reduction in the crime rate. It has been a team effort. There are no party labels when it comes to Texans. My good friend, Sheila Jackson-Lee, will be speaking in a moment, and we are Texans first. There are no party labels when it comes to what is good for Texas and the Nation. 
   We have found a solution, Mr. Speaker, in Operation Streamline and the Zero Tolerance Program, enforcing existing law with existing resources and existing personnel in a unified team effort, and it's about time for the U.S. Attorney in Arizona to get with the program and recognize that she has an essential role in protecting this Nation. 
   Frankly, Mr. Speaker, if the U.S. Attorney in Arizona will not enforce the law and live up to her oath of office, I think she ought to find another job. It's about time for her to just step aside. It's unacceptable for a U.S. Attorney to refuse to enforce the law. Those officers' lives are in danger. 
   We on the Appropriations Committee, I serve on the Homeland Security subcommittee, Mr. Speaker, we sent 40 additional U.S. Attorneys, prosecutors to the southwest border with specific instructions that those attorneys be used to prosecute border crime. The U.S. Attorney in Arizona got 21 of them, and she will not use them to protect the border or this Nation. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have done great work in Laredo and Del Rio, and the U.S. Attorney in Arizona needs to get with the program and enforce the law with zero tolerance or find another job. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5501, TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, there is no more noble endeavor that we can engage in than to cure human diseases. All of us in Congress I think have an obligation to be sure that we are, for example, doubling the investment we make in the National Institutes of Health, in the National Science Foundation, in the research work that they're doing to identify and cure human diseases at the earlier stages. 
   I represent the Texas Medical Center, and I'm proud to do so. Those institutions, the greatest in the world, the Andy Anderson Cancer Center, Texas Children's Hospital, Baylor University of Texas Health Science Center is doing research today, particularly on nano research, where we have the potential, within the next 10 to 15 years, of being able to identify in a child before she's born genetic predisposition to certain diseases, for example, like Lou Gehrig's disease, or diabetes, or cystic fibrosis. These genetically-based diseases can be identified before a child is born using nanotechnology, reinjecting, for example, nano sponges with a protein fix back into the mother's amniotic fluid. The child would then take up those nano sponges. And we can cure diseases in children before they are born. 
   We have the potential, if we will just invest in the National Institutes of Health and their competitive peer reviewed grant process, if we will just invest the money that's needed right here in America for the National Science Foundation, we have the ability to detect cancer when it's only a few hundred cells in the body using nanotechnology and gold nano shells that will attach to the cancer cells and destroy them before they turn into a tumor. 
   We have not adequately invested in our own scientific and medical infrastructure in the United States, first and foremost, before you even begin to talk about curing disease globally. We have not secured our border. The southern border is essentially wide open and unprotected in areas other than Del Rio and Laredo. What are we doing to make sure that we've done all that we can do here at home first and foremost for our own folks? 
   But then finally, and most importantly, and the reason I'm so spun up about this, is the fact that this Democrat Thelma and Louise Congress, Obama-Hillary-Pelosi Democrat Congress, is managing this economy of the United States like Thelma and Louise, driving right off the cliff. 
   I urge you to go to gao.gov and look at the Fiscal Wake-Up Tour that David Walker has put up on the Web site. The Comptroller of the United States has notified us formally that we are spending money so irresponsibly, so rapidly that the Standard & Poor's and Moody's has already formally notified the Treasury that they are beginning the process of downgrading U.S. Treasury bonds. 
   The Comptroller has told us that by the year 2020, in 12 years, young people who are 18, if you're listening, by the time you turn 30, Medicare is bankrupt, Treasury bills will be graded as junk. Let me repeat that, Treasury bills are on a path to be graded as junk bonds if we don't stop spending money and focus on the bare essentials. Every American already owes $175,000 a person. 
   This bill creates a worldwide entitlement to anyone in the world that has AIDS or malaria or tuberculosis at U.S. taxpayer expense. It's unaffordable. It's unacceptable. It is utterly irresponsible at a time of record national debt, record deficits, record Federal spending that we need to reign in, otherwise America is going to become Argentina. The dollar is rapidly becoming the peso. It's time for this Thelma and Louise Democrat Congress to quit spending money on things that are not absolutely essential to this Nation's survival. 
   Let us focus on protecting the United States of America and quit spending my daughter's money that she does not have and driving our kids and our grandchildren deeper into debt. It is irresponsible. It is, frankly, criminal, in my opinion, to drive up the national debt and the deficit to record levels. 
   It is a noble, good thing to try to cure disease in Africa. Why don't we focus on clean drinking water, for example, if you really want to fix disease in Africa. Quit spending my children's money that they don't have. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5501, TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. I want to thank Mr. McGovern for his thoughtful response and point out that over the last 60 years, the Republicans have been in control of the Congress for I think about 14 of that. We were in control about 12 years, and then I think there were 2 or maybe 4 years under Eisenhower that the Republicans were in control. So, Democrats have controlled the Congress for the overwhelming majority of the last 60 years. 
   I got here in 2001. And I can tell you, Mr. McGovern, and you're a thoughtful, good man, I enjoy working with you, that I personally, on behalf of my constituents, have voted against every major spending initiative that the White House has pushed on us because I recognized this problem the comptroller has put out before us. I voted  against the farm bill. I voted against the Medicare Prescription Drug bill. I voted against the No Child Left Behind Act. I voted against the AIDS in Africa bill the last time it came up because we cannot continue to spend money that our children cannot afford to pay. The money we spend today will be paid by our kids and our grandchildren. And that's the fundamental message here, Mr. McGovern. 
   I would encourage everyone in this Congress, and I know you're a thoughtful guy, why don't we focus on providing clean drinking water. Let's convert existing foreign aid in Africa to clean drinking water, which I've lead the effort to provide $500 million. Focus on clean drinking water and research here in America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (AWARDING A CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL TO MICHAEL ELLIS <em>DeBAKEY</em>, M.D. -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   It is my singular honor to stand before the House today to support H.R. 1154, a bill that Mr. Green is the lead author of, which he has coauthored with Mr. Burgess and I and other members of the Texas delegation, which Senator Hutchison has carried in the Senate, to award the Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. Michael DeBakey. 
   Al Green and I are proud to represent the Texas Medical Center in Houston, the largest assembly of medical institutions and hospitals, learning facilities in the world, and certainly the greatest collection of medical talent, human talent in the entire world. And Dr. Michael DeBakey has had an impact on medicine based out of the Texas Medical Center that just simply cannot be overstated. And my friend Al Green has spoken so eloquently and so well of many of Dr. DeBakey's accomplishments. I could not agree more that if the Congressional Gold Medal did not exist, it certainly should be created just for Dr. Michael DeBakey. 
   He is an educator, surgeon, innovator. As Mr. Green has said, Dr. DeBakey comes from Louisiana, the oldest of five children. He was born in 1908. And it is important for people listening to know that this great good man is 99 years old, in great good health, is still active, and is, I hope, watching this afternoon. 
   He received both his bachelor's, his master's, and his medical degrees all from Tulane University in New Orleans and completed his internship at the Charity Hospital and his residency at the University of Strasbourg, France and Heidelberg, Germany. 
   At the age of 23, and still a medical student, he reported a major invention, the roller pump for blood transfusions, which later became a major component of the heart-lung machine used in the first successful open heart operation. And while Dr. DeBakey was still a resident in surgery, he invented a blood transfusion needle, suture scissors, and a colostomy clamp while still a student. He is also credited with inventing and perfecting countless other medical devices, techniques, and procedures that have saved untold number of lives and led to healthy hearts for millions of people throughout the world. The man is truly a pioneer in ways that I think most people may or may not know. He is a modest good man, and I just can't tell you how proud I am to be here and to be a part of this tonight. 
   When he returned to the United States in 1937, after completing his European studies, Dr. DeBakey accepted a position on the faculty of Tulane University's School of Medicine Department of Surgery. And although he had already achieved a national reputation as an authority on vascular disease and had a promising career as a surgeon and teacher, Dr. DeBakey volunteered for medical service during World War II, joined the Surgeon General's staff, and rose to the rank of colonel and chief of the surgical consultant's division. 
   His firsthand knowledge led Dr. DeBakey to make a number of recommendations to properly stage the management of war wounds, which led to the development of the MASH units that we are all so familiar with because of the television show, and today the survival rate of soldiers in the field is remarkable. If they are injured or wounded in combat and defense of this Nation, the surgical attention they get from those mobile army surgical hospitals is a direct result of Dr. DeBakey's work in World War II. And for this contribution, Dr. DeBakey earned the Legion of Merit in 1945. 
   After World War II, Dr. DeBakey recommended the creation of specialized medical centers in different parts of the United States to treat wounded military personnel returning from the war; and from this recommendation, Dr. DeBakey's ideas led to the creation  of the Veterans Affairs Medical Center System. He also proposed a systematic follow-up of veterans, as he had done so with soldiers in the field, which led to the establishment of the Commission on Veterans Medical Problems of the National Research Council and an extensive VA Medical Center Research program. And in 2003, in honor of Dr. DeBakey's accomplishments, with the help of my friend Al Green and Sheila Jackson-Lee and other members of the Houston delegation, the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Houston, Texas, was renamed the Michael DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center. 
   In 1948, Dr. DeBakey moved to Houston and started at the Methodist Hospital in Baylor College of Medicine in the Texas Medical Center. Shortly after he arrived, he secured commitments to improve the institutions and quickly developed the first surgical residency program in the city of Houston. Guided by his vision, Baylor College of Medicine is today one of the most respected health science centers in the Nation and in the world. 
   In 1969, as Al mentioned, Dr. DeBakey was elected the first president of the Baylor College of Medicine, and today he is chancellor emeritus of the Baylor College of Medicine. Dr. DeBakey has been crucial to the growth of the Methodist Hospital in the Texas Medical Center. 
   At Methodist, Dr. DeBakey performed many of his groundbreaking surgeries, including the first removal of a carotid artery blockage in 1950.     
   Today Dr. DeBakey is a senior attending surgeon at the Methodist Hospital. 
   Convinced that there must be a way to improve existing methods of vascular surgery, Dr. DeBakey went out on his own and purchased fabric from a Houston area fabric store, using a craft he had learned from his mother as a child, Dr. DeBakey created the first Dacron prosthetic artery on his wife's sewing machine. Intensive studies and testing followed, and with the collaboration of a research associate from the Philadelphia College of Textiles and Sciences, a knitting machine was developed that produced the first seamless artificial artery in history called Dacron tubes. 
   In 1953, Dr. DeBakey performed the first successful procedures to treat patients who suffered aneurysms leading to severe strokes. He later developed a series of innovative surgical techniques for the treatment of aneurysms enabling thousands of lives to be saved in the years ahead. 
   During Dr. DeBakey's tenure as a member of the Task Force on Medical Services of the Hoover Commission, he initiated the concept and led the movement to establish a national facility for valuable and historical medical papers and artifacts. His efforts led to the dedication on June 12, 1959, of the National Library of Medicine housed at the National Institutes of Health. Today the National Library of Medicine is the world's largest and most prestigious repository of medical archives. 
   In 1964, President Johnson appointed Dr. DeBakey to the position of chairman of the President's Commission on Heart Disease, Cancer and Stroke, which led to the creation of the Regional Medical Programs established ``to encourage and assist in the establishment of regional cooperative arrangements among medical schools, research institutions and hospitals for research and training.'' 
   In 1964, Dr. DeBakey also triggered the most explosive era in modern cardiac surgery when he performed the first successful coronary bypass in history. That's an extraordinary achievement, and everyone should focus on that. Dr. DeBakey was, once again, paving the way for surgeons worldwide to offer hope to thousands of patients who might otherwise succumb to heart disease. 
   Two years later, Dr. DeBakey made medical history again when he was the first to use, successfully, a partial artificial heart to solve the problems of a patient who could not be weaned from a heart-lung machine following open heart surgery. 
   And in the mid-1960s, Dr. DeBakey pioneered the field of telemedicine with the first demonstration of open heart surgery to be transmitted overseas by satellite, a technique that is today used extensively in Iraq. When soldiers in the field are injured and brought into the hospital and they need medical care, physicians in the Texas Medical Center, which Al Green and I are so proud to represent, are able to view those procedures live via satellite, of the x-rays, of the CAT scans and the procedure itself being done in Iraq. A doctor sitting in Houston, Texas is able to help observe and offer advice on that procedure to help save those soldiers' lives. And that technique was first pioneered by Dr. DeBakey back in the mid-1960s. 
   In 1968, Dr. DeBakey supervised the first successful multi-organ transplant where a heart, both kidneys and a lung were transplanted from a single donor to four separate recipients. In 1968. 
   In 1969, President Johnson bestowed on Dr. DeBakey the Presidential Medal of Freedom with Distinction. 
   Dr. DeBakey has always focused on education and bringing young people into the field of medicine and strengthening and expanding the reach of our medical schools. And in 1962, he supported an educational outreach program that led to the creation of Houston High School for Health Professions, now recognized as one of the best high schools of its kind in the United States. And in 1996, Houston's High School for Health Professions was renamed the Michael E. DeBakey High School for Health Professions in honor of this great, good man. 
   And he was recognized by President Reagan in 1985 with the National Medal of Science. 
   In 1999, Time Magazine chose Dr. DeBakey as one of the 100 Great Americans of the 20th Century and honored him for his pioneering work and innovation in cardiovascular surgery and the artificial heart. 
   Dr. DeBakey continues his pioneering research today. Working with NASA engineers, he refined existing technology to create the DeBakey ventricular assist device for patients with dying hearts. This device is one tenth the size of current versions and restores the cardiac output of a heart to normal function in order to relieve the patient's failing heart and could eventually eliminate the need for heart transplant in some patients. And, in fact, the technology that Dr. DeBakey was able to develop for the ventricular assist device is very similar to and helped NASA in developing the fuel pumps for the space shuttle, which to this day the space shuttle fuel pumps on those engines are able to move more fuel, more fluid more rapidly than any other pump ever invented. And Dr. DeBakey's work was a key part of that. 
   I have a particular soft part in my heart. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I do my best to avoid spending money. The starting answer is no, unless it's medical or scientific research. And when it comes to medical or scientific research, that's our Nation's insurance policy and the investment that we make. And the research that's done at the Texas Medical Center, other medical institutions around the country and in scientific research and in the space program is truly a part of our national insurance policy. And the research work that Dr. DeBakey has done with NASA has truly led to saving lives and improved technological spin-offs in many other areas as well. 
   In 1999, Dr. DeBakey was one of eight individuals chosen to commemorate the United Nations' International Day for Tolerance and received the prestigious U.N. Lifetime Achievement Award. 
   In 2000, Dr. DeBakey was recognized by the Library of Congress, which designated him a Living Legend. 
   Throughout his many years of public service, Dr. DeBakey has been awarded over 50 honorary degrees from colleges, universities and medical schools worldwide, as well as numerous awards from educational institutions, professional and civic organizations and governments worldwide. 
   I want to again, Mr. Speaker, say thank you to my colleagues, Representative Al Green and Representative Michael Burgess, for bringing this bill to the House floor, and a special thank you to Chairman Barney Frank for expediting its approval through the Financial Services Committee. 
   I could not agree more with my friend, Al Green. There is no better  way to express the merit of this good man, that if the Congressional Gold Medal did not exist, it truly would need to be invented for Dr. DeBakey. With his extraordinary achievements, his contributions to mankind, to improving the lives and health of not only the people of the United States but of the world, I am proud to join my friend, Al Green, in urging the House to support and pass H.R. 1154 to award the Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. Michael Ellis DeBakey. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that we have been joined by the other lead author of this bill, my colleague and good friend from Dallas, Dr. Michael Burgess. And I would like, if I could, at this time to yield time to Dr. Burgess. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. CULBERSON. (THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank the gentlelady for offering this amendment, which is offered as one of a series of amendments put forward by the fiscal conservatives in this House in a modest effort to try to restrain spending when the new majority has adopted a budget that assumes the largest tax increase in history by assuming that the Bush tax cuts are going to go away. 
   On the contrary, the President's budget, which we are trying to stay within, assumes that those tax cuts are going to stay in place. 
   So it's important, Mr. Chairman, for everyone listening to know that these cuts, which we are offering in spending, which are very modest, can also be seen as tax cuts. Every dollar we save in this appropriations process is a dollar that will not be spent in the future, which the Democrats assume in their budget is going to come from the repeal of the Bush tax cuts. 
   So I applaud the gentlewoman from Colorado for offering this amendment, and it's important to remember, also, as we go through this debate, that all of the Members who are offering these amendments voted against most of those big spending increases over these last many years. I, for one, got re-elected because I voted against most of those big new entitlements and spending increases. 
   I know that the gentlewoman from Colorado, the gentleman from Georgia, my colleague from Georgia, my colleague from Indiana joined me, along with many other members of the Republican Study Committee, in voting against those big spending increases. So the shoe indeed does not fit these conservative Members. 
   We are proud to stand up here to try to do our best, one brick at a time, to control the out-of-control spending by Congress and to prevent the biggest tax increase in American history. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
