<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - July 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Madam Speaker, I want to begin this evening's discussion by reading a little reminisce that was written by one of my staff members, Dr. John Darnell. He's imagining that he is talking to his granddaughter at some future date, and this little reminisce is called, ``Making It Through the Energy Crisis--Future Reminiscences with my Grandchildren.'' 
   ``Grandfather, tell us the story about the men who went to the Moon and barely made it back--and how that was like when the world discovered there wasn't enough oil.  
   ``Oh, you mean Apollo 13. Yes, that story is very much like what happened back in the energy crisis of 2008, before you were born. What those astronauts had to do to survive was very much like what the world had to do. 
   ``Tell us the story, Grandfather! 
   ``Apollo 13 was one of many trips to the Moon and back, some returning without landing. This trip was planned to include a landing to explore the lunar surface. When they left Earth they were on a `safe return' trajectory so that if something went wrong, their craft would have automatically looped around the Moon and returned on the proper path for a safe landing. In order to land on the lunar surface, however, they had to adjust their trajectory for a better orbit for the landing. Once they had made that adjustment, they were no longer on the `safe return' trajectory. 
   ``And, that's when the problem happened? 
   ``Right! A sudden, loud bang announced the problem--there had been some warning signs that something was not right for some time before, but the controllers didn't know what to make of them--and in a similar way the early symptoms of the energy crisis were misunderstood and ignored. 
   ``So, what was the loud bang? 
   ``One of the liquid oxygen tanks that powered the command module's fuel cell and supplied oxygen to breathe had exploded! When they finally realized what had happened, they had to quickly shut off the oxygen to the fuel cell to save what was left. That meant there was no power for the command module. Fortunately, in planning the mission, they had rehearsed what they would do if the command module lost power--they would use the lunar lander as a `lifeboat'! That's like what we called 'contingency planning' in preparing for anticipatable disruptions of the world's energy supplies. 
   ``So, that's how they got back safely? 
   ``Well, yes, but that wasn't all there was to it--their problems were far from over. 
   ``First, not only could they no longer land on the Moon, but the power and oxygen they had assumed would be available were now limited to what the lunar lander could supply--only intended for two people for a few days on the surface--which now had to be stretched out to supply three people for the trip all the way back to Earth. 
   ``How could they get by on so little? 
   ``By purposeful conservation! By that I mean that it was not enough to just use a little less energy; they had to use a lot less. 
   ``The astronauts not only had to save enough to make it all the way back before their supplies ran out, they also had to have enough power to spare to operate the controls of the lunar lander during two course corrections. 
   ``The world in 2008 faced a very similar problem: availability of fossil fuels had reached a peak and could not keep growing to match exploding demand, not to mention needs of business as usual. And, not only did the world have less energy available than it could have used, but, as with the astronauts, purposeful conservation was needed to save enough extra to have resources, including energy, to spare for investing in the shift to a more sustainable energy path. 
   ``It sounds like the astronauts almost ran out of time if they hadn't changed course to speed up their return--which used up some of their reserves! How close did they come to running out? 
   ``Very close. Every minute and every breath used up precious supplies--the time they bought by conserving made it possible to invest in the course corrections, with very little to spare! Not only that, but they had an unanticipated complication: carbon dioxide was building up in their atmosphere--they could have returned intact, but dead from asphyxiation! 
   ``That's spooky--the world today has the same problem--how did they solve their problem? 
   ``It wasn't easy! It took creative, out-of-the-box thinking and collaboration among the crew and backup crew on Earth, using a duplicate capsule on the ground. Eventually they were able to improvise a makeshift device, using materials on hand, including a sock, to adapt the command module's filter to the lunar lander. 
   ``Of course, as you point out, there has been a parallel need to curb global carbon dioxide emissions that has limited choices of technologies as the world has shifted to a more sustainable energy economy. Conservation, itself, dramatic efficiency improvements and carbon-neutral and sustainable energy resources all have helped reduce greenhouse gas emissions far below 'business as usual' projections, while homegrown businesses and jobs have flourished far in excess of the losses in traditional industries. 
   ``They were really lucky to have overcome all those problems to make it back safely when it looked like they didn't have a prayer! 
   ``You're right; it was pretty amazing that they made it! Maybe more than you realize--when they made their course corrections, they had to use hand calculators and steer by hand to hit a reentry 'window' that was like the thickness of a sheet of paper four feet way. If they had missed it, their reentry vehicle would have either burned up or bounced off into space! 
   ``But, it wasn't just luck. They had prepared and rehearsed contingency plans in case of anticipatable emergencies, so they didn't panic; instead they communicated, cooperated, collaborated creatively, and rose to the challenge with determination to do what was necessary to make it, even if it meant some hardship. And some prayer probably didn't hurt! 
   ``It has taken a similar sense of determination, worldwide, for us to make it as far as we have in the transition to a sustainable energy economy. In the past 20 years we have come a long way toward that goal but there is still a long way to go. And it was by no means inevitable or easy. There were many points where it could have gone seriously awry. In the early years there was a lot of denial, anger and blame, and an impulse to fight over control of access to the remaining oil and gas. 
   ``But, there is still oil and gas being used today--we didn't run out--why didn't they realize that we could switch to renewable energy sources like we use today? 
   ``A lot of people thought we could do just that--along with a slew of other things that seemed reasonable ..... But, by the time the crisis hit, fossil fuel prices were killing the economy and everything cost so much that no one had any money to spare to invest in any of the alternatives ..... And, when the shortages hit, there was nothing ready to turn to as a substitute on the scale that was needed--time had become a scarce resource as well as money and energy itself! And, every proposed solution was competing for those same scarce resources! 
   ``Reluctantly, people came to see that only one thing could accomplish what was needed: purposeful conservation! Even in the midst of the crisis, contingency plans could be implemented rapidly at almost no cost, buying time, saving money, extending the depleting resources and further reducing costs by falling demand resulting in lower prices. 
   ``Conservation with the purpose of investing the conserved resources in greatly improved efficiency buys still more time and lowers the level of energy needed for a comfortable standard of living--a level that can be sustainably and affordably be supplied from a variety of sources. 
   ``I see--since even efficiency takes time, money and energy, you have to start with purposeful conservation to buy time and be able to afford it and so on. But, today everyone seems to take that for granted--what made the difference? 
   ``International cooperation instead of confrontation. Consuming Nations committed to reducing their consumption in concert with a calculated decline in production by producing countries--faster than natural depletion rates. This had the effect of making things predictable, creating reserves and extending the resource productivity, assuring that no one is tempted to seek an unfair advantage, and reducing competition for control of dwindling resources, that is wars. 
   ``The second profound change has been the challenge of the 'International Race to Sustainability.' Like the race to the Moon that spawned the Apollo missions, the Race to Sustainability has captured the imagination of innovators all over the world. Much of the resources that had been formerly dedicated to building military capability in anticipation of a struggle of control of fossil resources are now  being directed toward the prestigious goal of leading the Race to Sustainability. 
   ``Now, as you know, there are ongoing competitions that demonstrate self-powered, zero energy communities, both new and retrofitted. Self-powered, net food and fuel producing farms that are now commonplace, as increasingly are self-powered manufacturing in the renewable sector. Even transportation is becoming self-powered with the increasing deployment of highly efficient, Personal Rapid Transit networks. 
   ``Wow, Grandfather, the way you tell it, the story of the world's transition to sustainability is almost as exciting as the Apollo 13 story! We're so lucky to be alive to be a part of it! 
   ``Yes, it is an exciting time to be alive! With new, highly efficient technologies, the energy available whenever there is access to sunshine, blowing wind, running water, the energy of the ocean or the Earth's heat, can bring prosperity! The world has never seen such widespread prosperity! Increased democracy, better education of women, health care are following close behind. 
   ``Thank you, Grandfather,'' very much for this story. 
   I read this because I think it sets in perspective what we want to be talking about today, and I have a chart here that kind of tells us where we are and what's been happening recently. 
   This chart could go back through the 8,000 years of recorded history, and it would look just the same as it does in these last 400 years of recorded history. The amount of energy being produced would be very low, not discernible from the baseline as a matter of fact, and now we start with the Industrial Revolution using wood here, and you see the increased energy production. And then we learn to use coal, and boy, it shot up. But then when we learned to use gas and oil, it really took off. And that curve is one that we're going to see several times in the charts that we're going to see just in a few moments, and this curve is on a very compressed abscissa. So it's a very sharp curve. 
   It shows a couple of very dramatic things. First of all, it shows that the rate of increase in the use of gas and oil up through the Carter years was on such a trajectory that it would now be well off the top of the chart if something had not happened. That something that happened was the oil embargoes in the 1970s and the oil price spike hikes that inspired people to be more efficient. We actually had a recession. 
   Here you see it as a drop in the demand for oil around the world, and it's not so plain on this chart because the abscissa is so compressed. We're going to see it on subsequent charts. 
   The rate of increase in the use of oil is now on a very much lesser slope than it was at the beginning. It's interesting to note that the world's population essentially followed this curve. The world's population started out down here through about 8,000 years of recorded history at something like half a billion or so people around the world, and now it's increased to what, nearly 7 billion people. If we had a population on here, it would pretty much follow the rate of increase in the use of fossil fuels here, the release of energy. That's because our quality of life has been so much affected by this incredible amount and quality of energy that we've found under the ground. 
   The next chart takes us back a few years to show us how we got here and the warnings that we have had, that we were going to be here. Oil at $140 a barrel was not unanticipated if you had looked at the warning signs. And incredibly, most of the world and most of the leaders in our country have chosen to ignore or not look at these warning signs. 
   Back in 1956, it was on the 8th day of March, a very famous speech was given by M. King Hubbert to a group of oilmen in San Antonio, Texas.     
   And what he predicted was that by 1970 the United States would reach its maximum oil production. Now, that was preposterous when he made that prophesy because we were then king of oil, I think producing more oil, consuming more oil and exporting more oil than any other country in the world. And to suggest that in just 14 years no matter what we did we would reach our maximum capacity for producing oil was just silly to those who listened to it. But right on schedule, in the 1970s, you can see from the chart here, we reached our maximum oil production, just as M. King Hubbard had predicted. He became a legend, an icon in his own lifetime. 
   This chart shows us another thing, and that is the attempt by one of the groups out there who are still kind of in denial about whether or not we're reaching that point where the world has no more ability to produce an increased amount of oil. CERA, Cambridge Energy Research Associates, they use this chart to try and convince you that M. King Hubbard really didn't know what he was talking about. 
   The ``Hubbard curve'' was the lower 48 prediction here, and the actual oil production from the lower 48 are the green squares. And maybe a statistician could convince you that those are different curves, but I think to the average layman, gee, M. King Hubbard had it pretty right, this is what he predicted would happen, and this is what happened. 
   Now, if you take the total U.S. production, because we found a lot of oil in Alaska and we found a lot of oil--we have about 8,000 wells in the Gulf of Mexico--and if you add those two production sites to the lower 48, which he predicted, you see we get just a blip in the slope down the other side of Hubbard's peak. 
   Now, I want you to take a look at where we were in 1980. That's about here. And you're looking back and you can see, gee, M. King Hubbard was really right, wasn't he? The world did reach its maximum oil production in 1970. 
   And I'm going to use this time period, 28 years, because I think that we had known, of an absolute certainty, for 28 years that we were going to be here today. M. King Hubbard was right about the United States; we peaked right on schedule. I think it was in 1979 that he predicted the world would be peaking about now. 
   Now, if he was right about the United States--and the United States is certainly a microcosm of the world--why shouldn't he be right about the world? Essentially no attention was paid to this. Essentially no preparation was made for the inevitability that the world would reach this maximum production. 
   The next chart looks at where the world has been and where the world is going relative to oil production. 
   There are a number of bars here which show when oil was discovered and how much of it was discovered. Notice that the first discoveries were in the forties, and then, boy, some really big fields found here in the fifties. And then most of it found in the sixties and peaking about '80. But ever since the sixties it's been down, down, down. And that's in spite of ever-more incentives to find oil, in spite of ever-better techniques to discover oil, like computer modeling and 3-D seismic. And we now have a pretty good notion of the Earth's geology, and it's known that oil can exist only in certain unique geologic formations. 
   The solid black line here indicates the consumption, the worldwide consumption. Now, we saw that curve on the first chart we showed you. There we had really compressed the abscissa here because we have 400 years instead of 100 years on it. And remember that curve was going up very sharply and then there was the recession during the seventies? And then a much slower rate of increase because today we have much more efficient air conditioners and refrigerators and freezers and so forth. We better insulated our homes. We used to do a lot of things to conserve energy. Note where this curve would be now if this rate of increase had continued. It would be off the top of the chart, wouldn't it? So the embargoes of the seventies and the oil price hikes then were really a blessing in disguise because it encouraged us to do what we ought to have been doing even before that, and that was to become more efficient. 
   Now, what will the future look like? Now, that depends upon how much more oil you think we're going to find. But I would just caution that one needs to keep in mind this chart that shows what we have found. With ever-increasing incentives to find oil, it's been down, down, down. 
   Now, the creators of this curve kind of predict what they think the future  looks like, and they have oil peaking in production about now, which is about when M. King Hubbard said it would peak in production. Notice that since the eighties we have not been finding as much oil as we've been using, so we've filled in that difference between what we found and what we use by borrowing from the reserves back here. Everything above this line is a reserve. So we've been borrowing from these reserves. 
   We have a lot of these reserves left. And their projection for future discoveries--and I would have drawn the curve a little lower--but their projection for future discoveries is this curve. It's not going to be smooth like that, it's going to be up and down, but on the average, probably about that. So you've got to fill in the difference between what we discover and what we use by borrowing from the reserves back here. 
   Now, you can't pump what you haven't found. So if you think the future is going to be much different from what they project, then you have to believe that we're going to find a whole lot more oil than they believe. 
   The next chart. I mentioned the speech by M. King Hubbard that I thought was probably the most important speech of the last century. And I think that this one is the most insightful speech of the last century. This was a speech given by Hyman Rickover, the father of our nuclear submarine, to a group of physicians in St. Paul, Minnesota on the 4th day of May, 1957, just a bit, a year after M. King Hubbard had given his speech. Now, I don't know if Hyman Rickover knew of M. King Hubbard, I don't know if he had read that speech. But these are a couple of things that he said, which I think are so obvious. 
   ``There is nothing that man can do to rebuild exhausted fossil fuel reserves. They were created by solar energy,'' he said, ``500 million years ago and took eons to grow to their present volume. 
   ``In the face of the basic fact that fossil fuel reserves are finite, the exact length of time these reserves will last is important in only one respect: The longer they last, the more time do we have to invent ways of living off renewable or substitute energy sources and to adjust our economy to the vast changes which we can expect from such a shift.'' Wow, this was 51 years ago. We were then about 100 years into the age of oil, which he called this ``Golden Age.'' 
   I really love this paragraph because I think it is such an apt description of where we are and who we are and what we're doing, which he felt, and I feel, is immoral. 
   ``Fossil fuels resemble capital in the bank. A prudent and responsible parent will use his capital sparingly''--I haven't noticed that the world has been doing that with fossil fuel--``in order to pass on to his children as much as possible of his inheritance. A selfish and irresponsible parent will squander it in riotous living and care not one whit how his offspring will fare.'' 
   I think of this statement when I hear the pleas of those who say, ``Drill now, drill more, pay less.'' And the unfinished part of that sentence is, ``We don't really care about what happens to our kids and our grand kids, we want it now.'' 
   Another counsel in Hyman Rickover's speech--and he says this 51 years ago, I don't hear our leaders saying this today--``I suggest that this is a good time to think soberly about our responsibilities to our descendants--those who will ring out the Fossil Fuel Age.'' 
   Hyman Rickover knew we were 100 years into the Fossil Fuel Age; he didn't know then how long it would last. Remember he said that no matter how long it lasted, the only important thing was that the longer it lasted, the more time that we have to plan an orderly transition to renewable fuels. 
   We might give a break to these youngsters by cutting fuel and metal consumption so as to provide a safe margin for the necessary adjustments which eventually must be made in a world without fossil fuels. How much better 
   off would we have been as a country and as a world if 51 years ago we had listened to Hyman Rickover, who said this is a good time to think soberly about our responsibilities to our descendants. I have 10 kids, 16 grand kids and two great-grand kids, and I am genuinely concerned about what I'm going to leave to my kids. 
   Have we reached peak oil worldwide? This is in dispute by many people, but I just want to give you the data compiled by the two entities in the world that most effectively follow the production and consumption of oil. This is the IEA, the International Energy Association, and the EIA, the Energy Information Administration; the prior a European entity, and the latter a creature of our Department of Energy. 
   Here is their data, and they have pretty good concurrence. For about the last 3 years they show oil production worldwide as being flat. And what has happened in that 36 months? That oil production has been constant. Try as we might, the world has not been able to increase oil production for 3 years. 
   Three years ago, oil was about $52 a barrel. Today, it's $130, $140 a barrel. This is exactly what one would predict would happen with the constant supply and increasing demand. This kind of is, energy-wise, the perfect storm, because just at the time that the world has probably reached its maximum capacity to produce oil is just the time that the third world, led by India and China, are industrializing and demanding more and more oil. 
   Our rate of increase in the use of fossil fuels is only about 2 percent in our country, it's only been about 2 percent worldwide, but that is now increasing. The growth rate in India and China, they're not at all happy with 2 percent. The last data I saw, China's economy was growing at 11.7 percent a year, and their demand for oil was even greater than that because in this rapidly growing economy they haven't taken the time to make sure they're using these energy sources efficiently. 
   And it's not that we haven't been warned. We certainly knew from M. King Hubbard and what happened in 1970 in our country, and by 1980 we knew of an absolute certainty that M. King Hubbard was right about our country peaking in 1970. And by the way, we have drilled more oil wells than all the rest of the world put together. In spite of that fact, we produce only about 8 percent of the world's oil and that's because we have only about 2 percent of the world's reserves. 
   Your government has paid for four major studies--they've resulted in five reports because one of the studies resulted in two reports--on this issue, and two of those were in '05. This was the first big report called the Hirsch Report, for the senior investigator on it, by SC IC, a very large, prestigious international engineering science organization. The second was a report later on in '05 by the Army Corps of Engineers. Then we had two reports in '07, just last year. The Government Accountability Office did a study, and at the request of the President and the Secretary of Energy, the National Petroleum Council did a study. And all four of these studies, in different words, said that the peaking of oil is a certainty. It's not if, it's when. The peaking of oil is a certainty. And it's either present or imminent, with potentially devastating consequences. 
   There are some really interesting and important geopolitical considerations, and this next chart looks at those. This is really an interesting chart. This is the ``World According to Oil.'' And this is what our globe would look like if the size of the country was relative to how much oil reserves it had. And we see some very interesting things here. Saudi Arabia dominates the planet. That's because Saudi Arabia has about 22 percent of all the oil reserves in the world. We think that's what they have. You see, most of the oil reserves are held by countries like Kuwait and Iran and Saudi Arabia and Iraq. We know a little bit more about Iraq because we're there, but these other countries hold their data very close. The world community cannot look at their data. We know what they're producing because we buy it. We really don't know what the reserves are. So these are estimates as a result of what they tell us they have in reserve. We hope there is that much there. 
   Some interesting things about this ``World According to Oil.'' Look at the United States over here. We have 2 percent of the world's oil. We're 50 percent of the land mass of the globe in the ``World According to Oil.'' And a very interesting thing is that the country from which we get our biggest supply of oil, Canada, has about half the oil  that we have in the lower 48 and Alaska. 
   The country from which we get our third largest--it used to be the second until a few months ago--Mexico, has considerably less oil than the United States. Now, Canada can export oil because there are not very many Canadians. The Mexicans can export oil. Although there are a lot of them, they're so poor they can't afford to use it, and so they're exporting.     
   But this shows that the first and third suppliers of oil in our country are very small reserves. They have between them about the same amount of reserves that we have, that is, about 2 percent of the world's reserves. 
   Another very interesting thing to look at is the size of China and India. More than a third of the world's population, about 2.4 billion people out of a little bit less than the 7 billion people we have. And look at their size. You can hardly find Japan here because Japan is almost totally dependent on outside sources of energy. But these two huge countries demanding more and more energy and they are dwarfed by Russia. Russia has maybe three or four times, three times the energy that we have. They don't have all that much compared to giants like Saudi Arabia, but they, I think, may be the world's largest exporter because they are very aggressively pumping the oil that they have. 
   The next chart shows us a logical consequence of this. I mentioned how small the reserves in China are; so what is China doing about that? And this chart shows what they're doing about it. This is a map of the world, and it shows where the Europeans have invested, where the Russians have invested, where we have invested, and where China has invested. Where you see a dollar sign, and I don't see very many of them, is where we have invested. This symbol you see where China has invested, and you see it all over the world. They even tried to buy Unocal in our country. But China is now buying oil all over the world, and they aren't just buying oil, they're buying goodwill. Do you need a soccer stadium, a hospital, roads? Why is China doing this? Because in today's world, it doesn't make any difference who owns the oil. It is a global commodity. He who comes with the dollars gets the oil. I hope it continues to be dollars. If it's euros or something else, our economy is even in more trouble. So why are they buying oil all around the world? Of course, you can't get inside the heads of the leaders there, but you can only guess why they are doing it from some other things that they're doing. 
   One of the other things they're doing is very aggressively building a blue-water navy. They're building their navy much more aggressively than we are and much faster than we. They launched--the exact number I'm not sure of, but maybe ten or so submarines last year; we launched one. Their navy will soon be bigger than ours, nowhere what our Navy is. 
   China this year will graduate six times as many engineers as the United States graduates, and about half of our engineers are going to be Chinese and Indian students. The Chinese will graduate more English-speaking engineers in China than we graduate the total number of engineers in our country. It is impossible for a country that is so aggressively pursuing education in these technical areas, with a huge population and a great work ethic, to not be a serious challenge to us, by and by, economically and militarily. 
   Is this huge navy that they're building necessary because they want to be able in the future to use their oil and not share it with the world, as now you must? In order to use their oil, they are going to have to have a navy big enough to protect the sea lanes so that they can have access to their oil. 
   The next chart, this chart shows the 10 companies on the basis of oil production and reserve holdings. Now, we have giants in our country, oil companies, ExxonMobil and Chevron and Royal Dutch Shell and so forth, and many people believe the price of oil is high because somehow they're gouging us. The bar on the right here shows the reserves of oil, and these are the top 10 companies or countries that hold oil reserves. And you see that 98 percent of all of the top 10 are oil countries, where oil is owned by the country. Now, that was pretty obvious from that chart we had that showed the world according to oil, but this puts it in bar chart form. 
   Luke Oil, which is kind of independent of Russia, has only 2 percent of the 100 percent of the oil that's owned by the largest 10. 
   The bar on the left here shows production. This is not who owns it but who is producing it. Now, even though these people own the oil, our oil companies might be producing it for them. But that's not true because, you see, if you take the top 10 in the production of oil, 78 percent are these companies in North Africa and the Middle East, and only 22 percent is represented by the giants: ExxonMobil, Royal Dutch Shell, BP. Only 22 percent represented by these giants. 
   The next chart shows some numbers that shocked a number of our people. And the President has a letter from at least 3 years ago now by 30 prominent Americans: Boyden Gray and McFarlane and Jim Woolsey and 27 others, including several retired four star admirals and generals, really concerned, telling the President: Mr. President, the fact that we have only 2 percent of the world's oil and use 25 percent of the world's oil and import about two-thirds of what we use is a totally unacceptable national security risk. What if we didn't have access to that oil? They said this is a problem we have really got to fix. 
   Now, we are really good at pumping oil. You see our little 2 percent of the oil reserves results in 8 percent of the world's production. So our oil wells are going to be pumped down quicker than the average oil well in the world, and we have actually less than 5 percent of the world's population. We have about 1 person out of 22, and this 1 person out of 22 uses a fourth of all of the oil in the world. This is not lost on other nations. They understand this, and they are watching us to see what we do. 
   The next chart is a chart from the first study that I mentioned, the Hirsch Report, which resulted in two publications. And this is a chart which shows us very explicitly what T. Boone Pickens is telling us in his ads, that you're not going to drill your way out of this one. 
   Now, this chart makes what I think and what others think is a grossly unrealistic projection, and that is that we're going to find as much more oil as all the reserves yet to be pumped in the world. Now, as LaHerrere says, this is an absolutely implausible projection. Remember that big chart showing the down, down, down, and they are suggesting that's going to turn around and produce as much more oil as all the known reserves in the world today. And even if that happened, even if that happened, it would push the peaking of oil out to only 2016, it says here. This is one of the reasons T. Boone Pickens says you're not going to drill your way out of this. 
   Oil consumption up through the Carter years was so great that every decade--and think about this. This is a stunning statistic. Every decade we used as much oil as had been used in all of previous history. Had that curve continued, when you've used the half the oil, which is where I think we are now, you would have 10 years of oil left. And that's not 10 years at this rate because in the future it's going to be harder and harder to get. That's what has happened in the United States, harder and harder to get, less and less of it, and because of the world's supply and demand, ever higher and higher prices. 
   Look what happens if you find ways to get more of it out. Then you really fall off. If you're concerned about your kids and your grandkids, you would like to leave a little something for them. But even if you did that, it pushes the peak out only to 2037, this chart says. 
   Now let's look at energy and how much we use and where it comes from because this will tell us what our options are for the future and what our challenges are for the future. I would like to use an analogy relative to this chart which I think is easy to understand. A young couple whose grandparents have died and left them a considerable fortune, and they have established a life-style where 86 percent of the money they spend comes from their grandparents' inheritance and only 14 percent of it comes from what they're  earning. And they look at how old they are and how long they're likely to live, and they say, ``This is going to run out before we retire. We have got to do something.'' There are only two things they can do, one or both of these. Either they can use less, spend less, or make more. And that's precisely where we are in terms of energy, that 86 percent of all of the energy we use is our grandparents' inheritance. It's fossil fuels that were placed in the ground a very long time ago over a very long time span. And we now are removing them from the ground in a very short time period. And, of course, one of the consequences of this is we are now dumping into the atmosphere CO  
   2 that had
   been sequestered from the atmosphere over a very long time period in the past. We're now releasing that into the atmosphere in a very short time period. And many people are concerned about this increase in CO  
   2 and what it's doing for global warming and climate change and so forth. 
   Only 14 percent of the energy we use comes from sources other than coal, natural gas, and oil. But eventually as we run down, and oil and gas and coal are not forever--that's obvious that they are finite, that they will run out. The only question is when we are going to reach the peak and how long it will take before we run down the other side of the curve of the age of oil. So ultimately we are going to be living entirely on renewable energy and nuclear energy. Now, we may add some additional renewable energies here. We're the most creative, innovative society in the world, and what we can do when we have to is just absolutely incredible. 
   Note that a bit more than half of all of the energy we use that's not fossil fuels comes from nuclear. It's 8 percent of our total energy used. It's about 20 percent of our electricity. If you were in France, it would be about 80 percent of your electricity. So, clearly, that could grow. I know some people that have been really opposed to nuclear, but these are bright people, and when they look at a probable alternative to not producing more nuclear, which is shivering in the dark because of lack of energy, more nuclear doesn't look like a bad alternative to shivering in the dark; so they now are more focused on the potential of renewables and nuclear. 
   And here we look at the present renewables, and you see hydroelectric, and that's probably not going to grow in our country. We have dammed about every river we should and maybe a few that we shouldn't have. The biomass, that can grow a little bit. That's primarily energy produced by the timber industry and the paper industry, wisely, using a byproduct that would otherwise go to the landfill. 
   Solar and wind here are just trifling. They are a tiny part of the 6 percent here. And they are growing. They are growing like 30 percent a year. But when you start out so small, even 30-percent-a-year growth represents a tiny, tiny percentage of our total energy. 
   Geothermal here is true geothermal. It's not hooking your air conditioner to ground temperature, which you really ought to do. If you don't do that, what you are trying to do in the summertime to cool your house is to heat up the outside air. If what you're trying to do is heat up the ground, which is 56 degrees, that's a whole lot easier than heating outside air, which is 100 degrees. And the reverse is true in winter, of course. 
   The next chart shows the U.S. energy consumption by sector. And this is important because where are we going to have our real challenges in energy production? About 40 percent of our energy is electric power, about 28 percent of our energy is transportation, 21 percent industrial, and residential and commercial is about 11 percent. 
   The next chart looks at where we get the energy from for electricity. Mostly we are talking about liquid fuels, but electricity is also a challenge.     
   And the take-away from this discussion is that the future for transitioning to renewable alternatives for electricity is a very much brighter future than transitioning to fossil fuels. 
   And here we look at what we're producing electricity from today. Almost half of it is from coal, natural gas, nuclear and hydroelectric. And that can't go a whole lot. Microhydro might be as big as this by the way without the impacts on the environment that this big macrohydro does by damming up rivers. Petroleum, very little petroleum produced here. Other gases and other forms of energy, pump storage and so forth you see there. Now in a fossil fuel deficient world, coal is going to go away eventually. Natural gas is going to go away eventually. And the petroleum, liquid fuels and coke will go away eventually. 
   The next chart is a blowup of a tiny part of that chart. And this shows renewables. Only 2 1/2 percent of our electricity is produced by renewables. It is really small. One-thirtieth of our electricity is produced by renewables, and much of that by wood. And if we want to sustain our forests and still build houses--and we're having trouble stabilizing that now--we probably can't grow that a whole lot. Wind, boy, that can really grow. I look around and I see almost no wind machines, and I see leaves on the trees blowing everywhere. And so we could have a whole lot more wind machines and a whole lot more energy from that. Waste. That could and should grow. But I will caution that that is self-limiting. That waste stream you see go to the county landfill--and watch what is dumped in the county landfill. Almost everything dumped there is going to be the result of profligate use of fossil fuels. And in a fossil fuel deficient world, that waste stream is going to be very small. We ought to be burning it. I think that is a better alternative than putting it in a landfill. What is even better is we ought to be recycling where that is appropriate. But burning is a good idea. But that is not a solution to our problem. And it's not a true renewable. It's a sensible thing to do. But it's not a true renewable, although it's listed here because it's dependent on the use of fossil fuels for using most of it. And they're going to wind down. There will be less and less of that. 
   Geothermal, that could grow probably a lot because there are several places in our country where we're near enough to the molten core of the Earth, and we can tap into the heat of the Earth. And that is essentially an inexhaustible source of energy. In Iceland, I saw not a chimney in Iceland because all of their energy comes from geothermal. 
   Solar PV. Wow, I'm a big fan of that. China and Japan have the six largest companies in the world. We used to lead in that area. We have lost that lead. Now six of the largest producers in the world are in China and Japan. That is growing at about 30 percent a year. And wind is growing. Wind is bigger and growing very fast. But we're talking here about percentages of 2 1/2 percent. This is 1 percent up here. Notice down there that our solar today is a tiny, tiny part of 1 percent, like 1/100th of 1 percent. 
   The amount of energy that we get from fossil fuels is just incredible. The world uses about 85 million barrels a day. We use a little over 21 million barrels a day, about one-fourth of that. And each barrel represents the work equivalent of 12 people working all year. It has been so cheap, such a high quality and so easy to get. When oil was $12 a barrel, in terms of life improvement by using energy, you could buy the work equivalent of one man all year long for $1. This is why Hyman Rickover referred to this as a ``Golden Age.'' 
   About a year and a half ago, I had the privilege of leading a codel of nine of our Members to China. And I was shocked. My colleagues were shocked when we started talking about energy with China. They talked about post oil. Post oil. We have trouble in our country thinking beyond the next election or thinking beyond the next quarterly report. In China, they seem to think in terms of generations and centuries. There will be a post oil world. And they're looking at what needs to be done to get there in an orderly fashion. They have a five-point plan. And everybody we talked to there knew it. Everybody knew. No matter what sector of government we were in, they talked about the five-point plan. 
   Number one is conservation. Do you remember the little story I read about the grandfather telling his grandchildren the story of Apollo 13 and the analogy of that to our transition from fossil fuels to renewables, or at least 20 years of it? It all began with purposeful  conservation. That is the number one thing we have to do. That is not just riding in a Prius rather than an SUV. Coming to work the other day, I noticed in front of me was an SUV in one lane with one person in it, and a Prius in the other lane next to it with two people in it. I thought to myself, the people in that Prius are getting six times the miles per gallon per person as compared to the person riding in the SUV. 
   We have enormous opportunities for conservation. Enormous opportunities for conservation. Then, domestic sources of energy alternatives and diversify, get them from home if you can, and the fourth one may surprise you. They're concerned about the environment. Although they are the world's biggest polluter, they have 900 million people, three times our population in rural areas, and through the miracle of communications, they know the benefits of industrialization, and they're demanding them. They are demanding them. And I think China sees their empire unraveling like the Soviet empire unraveled if they can't meet the needs of these people. And so they have a huge, huge challenge in pollution and environmental impact. 
   The fifth point is one that is very interesting. Even though they are buying up oil all over the world, because they think we may have confrontation, they are building a big blue water Navy, and they are going to own their own oil. They are pleading for international cooperation. Do you remember in the little story we read about the grandfather and his grandchildren? It was international cooperation, spending our money on the race to sustainability rather than on weapons that could destroy each so other so that we could have more of the oil that finally got us through this huge challenge that we face. 
   What America needs to do, I think we need to have a program that has the total commitment of World War II. I lived through war. I was born in 1926. If you're doing the arithmetic, yeah, that makes me 82 years old. But I remember that war. We had victory gardens. We had daylight savings time. Everybody grew a victory garden who could. They cleared vacant lots in New York City. And you could see the pictures of the rubble in the middle and the vegetable gardens growing between the rows of rubble. No new cars were made in 1943, 1944 and 1945. The cars back then were either 1942 or 1946 cars. Everybody saved their household grease and took it to a central repository. Everybody was involved. It was the last time our country was at war. Our military has been at war since then, our military families have been at war since then. But our country was at war then. Everybody was involved. That is what is going to have to happen if we're going to make it in an orderly fashion through the exciting challenges that we face. We need to have the technology intensity and focus of the Apollo program. 
   Huge technology. I remember the cartoon of the little red-headed freckle-faced boy who said ``6 months I couldn't even spell `engineer' and now I are one.'' And everybody wanted to be involved in engineering. And we were focused on that program. How it riveted America. We need the urgency of the Manhattan project. And this is not going to be cheap. But living without oil is not going to be cheap either. 
   What are we doing about it? The next chart shows what I have been personally doing about it. I have a bill that is a companion bill to a Senate bill S. 2821 which passed 88-8, and our bill is 5984. What it does is to extend the alternative energy tax credits. With oil at $140 a barrel, it still isn't high enough for the business world to make investments. And so they have got to be encouraged to do that. And this is one of the things that government can do with tax credits is encourage the right thing there. We really need to do that. 
   Renewable domestic sources, H.R. 6107. Peak Oil Caucus and resolution. We have a resolution and a Peak Oil Caucus with about equal numbers of Republicans and Democrats. These are members that recognize that peak oil as an inevitability and a huge challenge. I'm really enthusiastic about ARPA-E. DARPA has been enormously effective for our military. I think we need a similar thing for our energy. ARPA-E, deciding where to invest the precious time and dollars in energy that we have. What is likely to pay the biggest benefit? 
   I am a big fan of improving CAFE standards. H.R. 80 is self-powered farms. If our farms can't be energy independent and produce a little bit of energy for those in the city, we're in trouble, aren't we, for the future? Tax credit for hybrids. We really need to do that. It's still cheaper not to buy the hybrid even with gas at $4 a gallon. But you really need to do that because we need to conserve the oil because we need it for other purposes. So we need tax incentives to buy more hybrids. 
   Fuel flexibility, neutrality, plug-ins. It costs only about $100 more to make a car that can burn any fuel, any reasonable fuel. They do that. Every car made in Brazil is that kind of a car. Well, can we do this and live happily? The next chart is an interesting chart. This looks at some quantitative measures of quality of life, such as how long you live, your education level and relative income. And that is on the ordinate. Here on the abscissa is how much energy you use. Of course, we are all alone, way out there at the right. We use more energy per capita than anybody else in the world. But on these quantitative things, are we that much better off than other countries in the world? No, not at all. There are a number of countries using essentially the same amount of energy that we use that live as long, have as high an education level and have the same relative income that we have. A number of countries here. 
   The next chart shows a subjective look at this. And this is even more compelling. What we're doing here is simply asking people, how good do you feel about your quality of life? Here we are. We feel pretty good about quality of life. But notice there are 22 countries I think who feel better about their quality of life than we do. The former chart was qualitative. This one is quantitative. They feel better about their quality of life than we do and use very much less energy. They use half as much energy as we do. Yes, we can consume much less energy and still live a very high quality of life. Lots of other people are doing it. 
   The next chart shows what can happen in our country when there is an incentive. The people in California--I don't even know if they know this. But people in California use only 65 percent as much electricity as the rest of us. That is because they were told 3 years ago that you are going to have rolling blackouts and brownouts unless you use less electricity. So they voluntarily use less electricity. Who will argue that Californians don't live as well as the rest of us? They use 65 percent as much energy as we. 
   The next chart shows something else. Inefficiency. This chart shows at what speed you should be driving your car to get the highest efficiency. And that depends on when your car was built. If you have an older car, it is much less efficient. CAFE standards really helped, didn't they? But the 1984 cars, it peaks down here, the 1997 cars, you see two peaks here, but the big peak, you should be driving around 55, 60 miles per hour. And do notice how rapidly the efficiency falls off if you drive faster than that? If you are concerned about $4 gas, slow down. It will go a whole lot further. It will cost you a whole lot less and be safer too. 
   The next chart is another look at efficiency. And there are a number of things like this. And this shows efficiency of lighting. The incandescent bulb is primarily a heat source. I brewed chickens with it. You get that much light and that much heat. Fluorescent is very much better. But they pale in efficiency compared to light-emitting diodes. I have a little LED flashlight that I carry in the pocket of my work clothes. I forget when I put batteries in it. It is so efficient. 
   The next chart is a look at the alternatives that we have and the finite resources that we can turn to, and we need to come to the floor and spend a lot of time talking about these, because I think one of the biggest challenges today is realistic expectations of what we can get out of these sources. They're all there, like tar sands and oil shale and coal and nuclear and so forth. Those are transition sources. The nuclear could be there for a long time if we can go to breeder reactors. And then the renewable sources. But these are finite sources. They will run out. Alan Greenspan, when he was talking about the dot com  market and how that bubble broke, he said that it rose because of ``irrational exuberance'' was the term he used. Well, a lot of people today have irrational exuberance.     
   Two bubbles have already broke. One was the hydrogen bubble. You hardly ever hear anybody talk about hydrogen any more. The corn ethanol bubble has broken with disastrous results, people hungry in the world because of this program. 
   And the next bubble--and remember that you heard it here--we will get nothing like a lot of people believe we will get out of cellulosic ethanol. And next time we will have a chance to talk in more detail about that. 
   Well, I am excited about this. There is no exhilaration like the exhilaration of meeting and overcoming a big challenge. This is a huge challenge. The American people are up to it if they know what the challenge is and if they know what they need to do. 
   I think we can again become the major exporting country in the world. I think we can again be filled with manufacturing, making the technologies and the equipments necessary to transition to these renewables. I am excited about the future. I am excited about where my children and grandchildren will be living. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (EMPLOYEE FREE CHOICE ACT AND PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - March 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, there is a question that often comes to my mind, as I sit here in these Chambers. I have spoken about it often, what made America great. I have been reminded of this question in my past speeches on this topic as the debate evolved regarding the inappropriately named Employee Free Choice Act, H.R. 800. We had a debate that I never thought would take place here in the Chambers of the House of Representatives of the United States, questioning the use of the secret ballot. 
   Now, I am asking myself again, what keeps America great? It is what our military is fighting for in Iraq, it is what they fought for in our American Revolution, our Civil War, World War I and World War II and every war great and small when our country has put our greatest treasure, the lives of soldiers, sailors, marines and airmen at risk. 
   What keeps America great is our commitment to the vigilant defense of the cause of freedom as expressed by the will of the people. Expressing their will by voting with secret ballots is integral to keeping America great. 
   Our Constitution guarantees us freedom of speech and of religion. These are precious freedoms that allow us to prosper, to learn, to own property, to start a business, to teach our moral and civic values and build a legacy of wealth and knowledge for the next generation. 
   But it is the greatest freedom for citizens to decide or to vote using a secret ballot that sets our Republican forum of government apart. Secret ballots allow people to freely make decisions through our elected process, decisions made about not only who will represent them here in the Congress but also in their hometowns, decisions about what new amendments will be made to the Constitution, State or Federal.     
   There are codicils in the contracts we have with our government about how we want to be governed. Voting is a basic tool of a free society. Thomas Paine said in his dissertation on first principles of government that, and I quote, ``the right of voting for representatives is the primary right which other rights are protected.'' 
   Voting is basic and natural to us. We have learned from an early age as school children voting for class presidents, and we expect it in adulthood as we elect representatives to our local, state and Federal elections. 
   It took a long time in this country to universally use secret ballot to make freedom's choices. But once in use, the secret ballot is not only the norm, but also the pinnacle tool which permits our countrymen to make these decisions, great and small, freely, without fear of intimidation or reprisal. 
   Mr. Speaker, we surely can't be serious when we pursue taking away from the rank and file worker the use of the secret ballot as the main vehicle for making decisions to unionize or remain an open shop. There may be problems with the unionizing process, but voting by secret ballot, I can assure you, is not one of them. 
   We here in the United States have acted as counselor to other governments and governing bodies on the requirements of a free and fair election. After all, we are the longest enduring republic in the history of the world. 
   I am going to reference such advice given on the U.S. Department of State Web site. If you search for principles of free and fair elections, you will find the requirements of an election. We here in Congress can benefit from relying upon this advice when considering the path to conducting union recognition process. And I quote, ``universal suffrage for all eligible men and women to vote, democracies do not restrict this right for minorities, the disabled, or give it only to those who are literate or who own property.'' Obviously, we want all people affected by union decision to have a right to vote. 
   I am going to add a few words about American history's path to universal suffrage here, because it is useful to understand our painful evolution to reach a point where voting went from the select few to every adult. 
   It has only been in my lifetime that true universal suffrage has been realized in our great country. We fought a great civil war that only put us on the path toward universal suffrage. We still had many battles to come. From 1865 to 1870 the Constitution was amended three times to guarantee equal voting rights to black Americans, but still the struggle continued. There were setbacks as States and localities undermined this Federal guarantee. 
   At the turn of the last century, there were barriers to achieving universal suffrage. Poll taxes and literacy tests denied many black American men the ability to exercise their right to vote. Jim Crow laws protected segregation. Not until the 1950s did our laws begin to change to put an end to segregation. The 1965 Voting Rights Act provided the means to the Federal Government to ensure the ability to vote by black citizens that is guaranteed under our Constitution. 
   Suffrage for women was long in coming. In 1776, Abigail Adams wrote, to her husband, John, who was attending the Continental Congress in Philadelphia, she asked that he and other men who were working on the Declaration of Independence remember the ladies. John responded with humor but got his point across; that the Declaration says that all men are created equal applied equally to women, he told her. 
   After the Civil War, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony formed the American Equal Rights Association, an organization for white and black women and men dedicated to the goal of universal suffrage. Other organizations followed. Still, in 1868, 3 years after the end of the Civil War, the 14th amendment was ratified but only provided for male suffrage. It was not until 1920, after many struggles, and only 86 years ago, that the 19th amendment was ratified and women in this country achieved the right to vote. 
   Let me go back now to that Web site of the U.S. State Department. Principles of free and fair elections: And I quote again, ``freedom to register a voter or to run for public office, these are the qualities, the characteristics that society must have if they want to have free people and fair elections. 
   ``Freedom of speech for candidates and political parties: Democracies do not restrict candidates or political parties from criticizing the performance of the incumbent. 
   ``Numerous opportunities for the electorate to receive objective information from a free press: Freedom to assemble for political rallies and campaigns. 
   ``Rules that require party representatives to maintain a distance from polling places on election day: Election officials, volunteer poll workers and international monitors may assist voters with the voting process, but not the voting choice. 
   ``An impartial or balanced system of conducting elections and verifying election results: Trained election officials must either be politically independent, or those overseeing elections should be representatives of the parties in the election.'' 
   And now, the next two points, especially the last, are points that we really should well remember. ``Accessible polling places: Private voting space, secure ballot boxes and transparent ballot counting.'' 
   And then this one, Mr. Speaker. ``Secret ballots.'' 
   This is our advice on our State Department Web site to those who would like to emulate us and establish a government as free and fair and great as ours.  
   This is what it says. ``Secret ballots. Voting by secret ballot insures that an individual's choice of party or candidate cannot be used against him or her.'' 
   It is only through the use of the secret ballot allowing for privacy voting without fear of reprisal that we can determine the true will of the people or the true will of workers. Do they want to be represented by a union or not? 
   If we keep in mind the advice that we so freely give to those outside our country, we can create a system for America's labor which will work for them. And frankly, who should be more protective of this basic tool of our society? Who should understand that the secret ballot should be the tool of choice for the members and their political members, but the union leadership themselves? 
   The union history is as painful as the struggle for the basic right to vote endured by blacks and women. The Industrial Revolution did usher in one of the most ugly periods of our history. Worker abuse, child labor abuse was, in fact, a huge problem. Brave men and women who formed unions led the efforts that addressed intolerable working conditions. 
   There will always be a place for employee unions. However, employee abuse by employers should not be replaced by employee abuse by unions. 
   In today's Los Angeles Times, not, I would remind you, Mr. Speaker, a conservative paper, in today's Los Angeles Times, there is an editorial entitled ``Keep Union Ballots Secret. Doing away with Voting Secrecy Would Give Unions Too Much Power Over Workers.'' This is the title of their article. This editorial outlines the issue well and, I believe, reflects the sentiment of the country. 
   Indeed, in recent polls, 87 percent of the American people believed that we should have secret ballot elections for determining whether a group of employees wanted to unionize or not. 
   We, in this body, are privileged to serve, because we were elected to represent our constituents in secret ballot elections. We took an oath, and we have the obligation to serve not big labor or big business. Our sole obligation is to uphold the Constitution and serve the individual residents of our districts. 
   I agree with Los Angeles Times editorialist. In part, I would like to quote that editorial, with which I wholeheartedly agree. And this is what it says. ``Unfair labor practices deserve tougher penalties. But improper influence can work both ways. As a rule, union membership improves worker prosperity and safety. Even so, the bedrock of Federal labor law is not unionism under any conditions, but the right of workers to choose whether they want to affiliate with a union.'' 
   This, from the very liberal Los Angeles Times. ``Unions once supported the secret ballot for organization elections. They were right then and are wrong now. 
   Unions have every right to a fair hearing. And the National Labor Relations Board should be more vigilant about attempts by employers to game the system. In the end, however, whether to unionize is up to the workers. A secret ballot insures that their choice will be a free one.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, I ask again, in conclusion to these remarks, what keeps America great? It is our commitment to a vigilant defense of the cause of freedom as expressed by the will of the people, and the will of the people is best and freely expressed by secret ballot elections. 
   As I read this, Mr. Speaker, my mind goes back to a comment made by Benjamin Franklin as he came out of the Constitutional Convention in 1787. Many copies of the Constitution may have this little quote on the front leaf page. He was asked, tradition has it, by a woman, who said, Mr. Franklin, what have you given us? And his answer was, a republic, madam, if you can keep it. 
   There are two things about this statement, Mr. Speaker, that deserve some reflection. The first is a republic. We do the Pledge of Allegiance to the flag and we note the republic for which it stands. And then we all too often get up and talk about the great democracy in which we live. 
   What is the fundamental difference between a democracy and a republic? And why was Mr. Franklin explicit in a republic, madam; if you can keep it? 
   A couple of examples of a democracy may be helpful in permitting us to understand why Benjamin Franklin was so specific. A somewhat humorous example of a democracy is two wolves and a lamb voting on what they are going to have for dinner. You see, in a democracy, the will of the majority controls. And if these two wolves and a lamb were in a true democracy and they were voting on what they should have for dinner, I suspect that the result might be lamb. 
   Let me give you another example of a democracy. And I kind of hesitate to do this because I don't want to be misunderstood. But I think it says very clearly what the difference between a republic and a democracy is. 
   If you will stop and think about it, I think you will agree that a lynch mob is an example of a democracy. Surely, in a lynch mob, the will of the majority is being expressed. Aren't you glad, Mr. Speaker, that you live in a republic? 
   Now, what's the fundamental difference? To help me understand this, I reflect back on an experience in our country with a President, Harry Truman, ``Take Charge Harry,'' who made a very abrupt decision when the steel mills were going to strike. Then we did some manufacturing in this country, and it would have mattered. And our economy was already in trouble and was going to be in bigger trouble if the strike occurred. And so President Truman nationalized the steel mills. What that meant was that the workers at the steel mills were now Federal employees, and as such, by law, they could not strike. And so this averted the strike. This was a very popular action. 
   The Supreme Court met in emergency session and, in effect, what they said was, and by the way, Mr. Speaker, this is just one of two times in our history that the Supreme Court has set aside an executive order of the President.     
   This is in layman's language what the Supreme Court said to the President: Mr. President, you can't do that. You can't nationalize the steel mills because that is unconstitutional. You see, in a Republic we have the rule of law, no matter what the majority wanted, and clearly then the vast majority of Americans wanted what their President did. They were approving of nationalizing the steel mills, which avoided the strike. But the Supreme Court said you cannot do that because, you see, that is unconstitutional. The fundamental difference between a republic and a democracy is that in a Republic, we have the rule of law. 
   This Constitution that I hold in my hand is the fundamental law against which all other laws are measured. Now, we can change it. We have done it 27 times. But that is a very thoughtful process. It is two-thirds of the House and two-thirds of the Senate and it bypasses the President and goes to the State legislatures, and three-fourths of the State legislatures must ratify it. 
   It has been quite a while since we amended the Constitution. The last time we tried to amend the Constitution, it was the so-called ``equal rights amendment.'' Nobody argued that women should not have equal rights, and nobody argued that we didn't need to do something to assure that women had equal rights. And that amendment almost made it through the three-fourths of the State legislatures. But suddenly it began to dawn on people that what that amendment required was not quite what we wanted. What the amendment required was that you could not differentiate between men and women. If you are going to have a draft for the military, you would need to draft women as well as men. And so ultimately the equal rights amendment failed. It did not pass. 
   I think that if we could be so fortunate as to have some of these Framers of our Constitution be resurrected and join us here that they would counsel, as Benjamin Franklin did when he answered the woman's question by saying ``A republic, madam, if you can keep it.'' 
   Abraham Lincoln understood that this was a new experiment that might not work: ``Four score and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth on this continent a new Nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.'' 
   We read those words and we slide through them so easily: ``that all men  are created equal.'' Of course, they are, you say. But to most at that time this was a revelation because most of the pioneers that established this great country came from either the British Isles or the European continent. And in almost every one of those countries there was a king or an emperor who incredibly, from our perspective, demanded and was granted divine rights, which said that the rights came from God to the king or the emperor and he would give what rights he wished to the people. Sometimes they were few, and sometimes there were more than a few rights that were given to the people. 
   But our Founding Fathers declared in the Declaration of Independence that all men are created equal and endowed by their creator. Mr. Speaker, do you think our courts might declare the Declaration of Independence unconstitutional because it mentions God, it mentions our creator? Endowed by our creator with inalienable rights: life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. 
   I don't know what was in Benjamin Franklin's head when he made the second part of that statement to the lady: ``A republic, madam, if you can keep it.'' Do you think he was concerned about some foreign power coming and conquering our country and taking our Republican form of government away from us? I doubt it. We are on the other side of a really big ocean. It took a lot of ships and a long time to gain any meaningful number of troops here. I suspect that he was more concerned about the threat to our Republic from within. 
   It has been said that the price of freedom is eternal vigilance. You just can't ever, ever let down your guard. We are the longest enduring Republic in the history of the world. And I have asked myself many times how did we get here and why are we so fortunate, this one person out of 22, or less than 5 percent of the world's population, and we have fully one-fourth of all the good things in the world? 
   I think very often about this question as I recognize that we no longer have a population with the best work ethic in the world. I just came from China about 6 weeks ago. We no longer have a population that is focused on science, math, and technology. We no longer have a country that prizes the nuclear family. We no longer have a society that prizes that. Nearly half our kids are born out of wedlock today. I would suggest today society is at risk when half of the kids are born out of wedlock. So what is it about this great country that makes us so special that we have a fourth of all the good things in the world? 
   I think there are two things, and I want to focus 
   for just a couple minutes on one of them, and that is the incredible protection that our Constitution gives to our civil liberties. There is no other constitution, there is no other country that has such respect for civil liberties. I think that in large measure it was this respect for our civil liberties that established a climate in which creativity and entrepreneurship could flourish. And I rise tonight because I am concerned about any threat to these civil liberties, and I think when we change the way we vote for any process from the traditional secret ballot process to something where your vote is exposed that in some little way you put at risk the civil liberties and start down a path that I don't think America needs to go down or wants to go down. Civil liberties are always a casualty of war, and I guess I am a little sensitive now because we are in a war. 
   Abraham Lincoln suspended habeas corpus. In World War II, my friend Norm Mineta, with whom I served here, a few years younger than I, a Japanese American, now Secretary of Transportation, told me, he said, ``Roscoe, I remember holding my parents' hand when they led us into that concentration camp in Idaho.'' 
   That war is over and we are embarrassed we did that. Civil liberties are frequently, perhaps always, a casualty of war. And I remember that counsel that the price of freedom is eternal vigilance. So excuse me, Mr. Speaker, if I seem to have maybe a bit overreacted to the dialogue that occurred here today because I am just so jealous of who we are and the great privileges that we have. 
   And now I want to turn our attention in the remaining time to a subject that I have come to the floor 22 previous times to talk about. And I think the great freedoms that we have are going to be tested as we meet the challenges that are ahead. I want to begin this discussion and will be discussing energy and one particular aspect of energy which is now fairly conventionally referred to as peak oil. I would like to note that it was the 14th day of last March that I gave my first speech on the floor here on peak oil. What I wanted to talk about was the probability that the world was about to reach its maximum ability to produce oil. 
   Obviously, that had to come at some point. The Earth isn't made out of oil. The amount of oil is finite. At some point we would reach our maximum capacity for producing oil. Few people ever thought about that because oil was just so ubiquitous. It was everywhere. Thousands of cars on the road. Electricity, heat whenever you needed it. And I was trying to decide what to call this and to label the charts, and you may see in the charts we use in a few moments some labels on top of the charts and they are put on with scotch tape because I wasn't sure what to call it. 
   I was debating between the ``great rollover.'' You see, when you have reached your maximum production of oil, you then roll over and start down a slope where you produce less oil, and it becomes harder and harder to get. So I thought maybe I would refer to it as the ``great rollover'' and finally decided that I would refer to it as ``peak oil.'' It is a good thing because now everybody is referring to it as ``peak oil,'' and I would have been a little out of step talking about the ``great rollover.'' 
   I have here an article that appeared today from the Associated Press published March 1, 2007. That is today. And it is an interview. T. Boone Pickens says global oil production has reached its peak. T. Boone Pickens. I didn't really know who he was. I knew he was a very rich and capable man who had an incredible talent at deciding where the market was going and has become very rich as a result of that. I didn't know that Pickens started his career in the 1950s as a petroleum geologist. I don't know if in 1956 on March 8, and we are coming up to the 51st anniversary in a few days, I don't know if he was in that audience in San Antonio or not when a very, very famous speech was given by M. King Hubbert that I will refer to in a few moments. 
   The article begins by saying: ``Legendary Texas oilman T. Boone Pickens sees today's stubbornly high oil price as evidence that daily global production capacity is at or very near its peak. `If demand for crude oil rises beyond the current global output of roughly 85 million barrels per day,' Pickens told the Associated Press, `prices will rise to compensate and alternative sources of energy will begin to replace petroleum. If I'm right,' he says, `we are already at the peak. And if I'm right, the price of gas will go up. I think there are less reserves around the world than are being reported. There are no audited reserves in the Mid East. It makes me suspicious,' he said.'' 
   Now, he was challenged in this by a friend of mine, a person that I really admire, Steve Forbes. Forbes publisher Steve Forbes challenged Pickens' assumptions during an exchange in the conference, saying political, not technological or geological, roadblocks stood in the way of increasing the world's oil output.     
   Just give them an incentive to go drill and they will find more oil. With the right incentives in place, more oil could be brought to market and prices could drop, Forbes said. 
   Forbes referred to Mexico and what was happening there. Pickens responded by saying Mexico is a declining producer of oil, as are most other countries. Indeed, 33, I think, out of the 45 oil-producing countries have already reached their peak and are already in decline. 
   Pickens responded by saying that Mexico is a declining producer of oil, as are most other countries, naming the United States, Norway, Britain and soon Russia. Indeed, I think Russia now has a second peak that they are declining from. They had an earlier  peak, the Soviet Union before the Soviet Union fell apart, and they now have recovered from that and are reaching a second but smaller peak. 
   The world has been looked at, Pickens told Forbes. There is still oil to be found, but not in the quantities we have seen in the past. The big fields have been found, and the smaller fields, well, there are not enough of them to replenish the base. This is T. Boone Pickens. 
   Pickens predicted oil prices will rise this year to an annual average of around $70 per barrel. It was $62 a barrel today. Global consumers led by the United States have already burned through 1.1 trillion barrels of oil, or what Pickens described as nearly half. Many observers will tell you it is half of the world's estimated 2.5 trillion barrels of oil. 
   This is his prediction. This is a man who has been able to make really good predictions, because he has gotten incredibly wealthy doing it. 
   From now on, Pickens said, rising demand will be met by higher prices rather than ever larger crude production. He says the days of meeting the demand with producing more are ending. Alternative energy sources will begin to take a share of the energy market until the world evolves from a hydrocarbon-based economy to something that is a mix of hydrocarbons and something else. 
   Now, since hydrocarbons are not infinite, they are finite, ultimately everything will be the something else. Everything from nuclear, coal, wind, solar, hydrogen and biofuels, stands a chance to assuage growing demand for energy, Pickens said. 
   I will put up the first chart now. What this chart does is to list the predictions of many of the world's experts, and T. Boone Pickens is not on here because he just made this prediction today and this is a chart made some time ago. It shows here a number of authorities, their background and references and the projected peaking date. What you can see here is that most of the authorities believe that peaking will occur quite soon. 
   I would like to digress for just a moment to talk about what we mean by ``peaking.'' Traditionally, peaking has meant to refer to conventional oil sources, the kind of oil you will get by drilling a hole in the ground and then pumping it out. 
   It is almost certain that the production of conventional crude oil has peaked, but we now are able to get the equivalent of crude oil from other sources, like gas to liquids, like oil from the tar sands of Canada, where it is really thick. It won't flow. They lift it up in a shovel that lifts 100 tons, they dump it into a truck that carries 400 tons, and then they cook it, add some volatiles to it so it will flow, and then you have the equivalent of oil. Or really heavy oil, like some of the oil that Venezuela is producing. 
   Then you might also include an unconventional oil, oil that is in places that is really, really hard to get to, like that last find in the Gulf of Mexico, which I think was under 7,000 feet of water, more than a mile of water, and several miles of dirt. They aren't pumping that yet. I have been told, and you are told a lot of things that may or may not be true, but I have been told that we will start pumping that oil when oil is $211 a barrel, because that is what it will take to get it out. 
   There are some who believe that the peak is a bit down the road, but you see that they all are pretty close. 
   There are several others who have made predictions about when peaking will occur. I have been talking about T. Boone Pickens and his prediction that it is now, that we are here. I noted all of these. 
   I have some remarks here from one of those, and we will look at the next chart now, and this is the chart from a study that was done at the request of the Energy Department and paid for by the Energy Department, by the SAIC, big SAIC organization. The principal investigator was Robert Hirsch, so it is frequently referred to as the Hirsch Report. 
   In this report, and I have highlighted here something that I thought was significant, he says, the world has never faced a problem like this. World production of conventional oil will reach a maximum and decline thereafter. That maximum is called the peak. 
   A number of competent forecasters, I have just shown you a list of those, project peaking within a decade. Others contend it will occur later. Predictions of the peaking is extremely difficult because of geological complexities, measurement problems, pricing variations, demand elasticity and political influences. Peaking will happen, and he should have really underlined that, peaking will happen, but the timing is uncertain. 
   The next chart shows some additional quotes from the Hirsch Report. The peaking of oil presents the United States and the world with an unprecedented risk management. Remember in the previous chart it said the world had never faced a problem like this. 
   As peaking is approached, and note how similar this is to what T. Boone Pickens said in the article today, as peaking is approached, liquid fuel prices and price volatility will increase dramatically, and without timely mitigation, and then he says this, economic, social and political costs will be unprecedented. 
   Another chart from the same Hirsch Report makes reference to another projection of when oil will peak, and this is a projection made by our own Energy Information Agency using data from USGS. I will spend 
   just a moment on this chart because it holds the essence of a pretty big debate that is going on out there. 
   The black curve here represents our use. Notice what happened in the 70s, the Arab oil embargo. If that line had kept on going up, as it had been going up for years, it would be way up there, wouldn't it, and there wouldn't be anywhere near enough oil. Eighty-five million barrels wouldn't begin to meet the world's demand if that were true. 
   There was a stunning statistic during this rapid rise up to the seventies. In every decade up until the Carter years, we used as much oil as had been used in all of previous history. That is stunning. What that means is that when we had used half the oil, there would only be 10 years left. That is not 10 years at that use rate, because it is going to be harder and harder to get, so it is going to fall off in what can be pumped. 
   But, fortunately, we had a wake-up shock, and we found out how to do a lot of things a lot more efficiently. Your refrigerator and air conditioner today may be three times more efficient than it was at the time of the Arab oil embargo. I don't think anybody will argue that we aren't living as well today as we did in the seventies, and we are using precious little more oil than we did in the seventies with a fair sized increase in the population. So efficiently really is possible, isn't it? 
   Well, back to this chart. USGS uses a very interesting technique for predicting how much oil is yet to be discovered. They have some very elaborate computer simulations, and they make some assumptions, and they put these assumptions into the computer simulations and then run these simulations. And they change the assumptions, because it might be a little higher or might be a little lower. So they have done this a very large number of times. Then they graph the frequency of certain predictions, of how much oil will be produced against the quantity that will be produced. Then they pick the mean of this. 
   This is the mean of their computer projections. They pick the mean of this and they say that that mean is the expected value. This is simply the result of putting some assumptions into some computer models and then running it a number of times. 
   Now, this says probability, but in their charts it says frequency. I don't know how frequency got translated to P for probability, but there is a bit of miscommunication here. They say that the low probability is the 95 percent probability. Of course, this was the number where there was 5 percent of predictions on one side and 95 percent of predictions on the other side of this point on their graph. 
   Now, what they called the 95 percent probability is what T. Boone Pickens said, you remember he had 2.3, that is slightly different from this, 2.5, something like that, slightly different from that, as the total amount of oil that had been discovered in the world, a little over 1,000 gigabarrels. And we use ``giga'' rather than billion, because a billion in England I think is a million million, and a billion here is 1,000 million. So if you use billion you may be misunderstood, but giga apparently around the world means a billion, and,  of course, 1,000 gigabarrels is a trillion gigabarrels, and this is 2.248 trillion gigabarrels, 248,000, which is 2.248 gigabarrels of oil. 
   Now, their mean, they say, reflects the probability that we are going to find half as much oil as we have ever found, half as much more oil as we have ever found in the past. And they even have a high 5 percent probability where they say we might find twice as much oil as all the oil we ever found in the past. 
   Now, even with this assumption, and this is really important, even with this assumption of the mean, and that is the red line here, you see, the mean, even with the assumption that we are going to find half as much more oil as we ever found, or to put it another way, we are going to find as much more oil as all of the reserves that now exist, even with that assumption, look where peaking occurs. 2016. That is just around the corner.     
   Now, if we don't find that additional oil, then the peaking would occur here. This is 2000. We are now in 2007, slightly after that, which is when T. Boone Pickens said it has occurred. 
   The second part of this chart shows another interesting thing, and that is if you use enhanced oil recovery, you will certainly get the oil more quickly. You may get some more oil, too; but the primary thing you will do is get it quicker. But if you pump it now, it won't be available later; and so they show a very steep drop there. 
   The next chart shows a comment by one of the giants in this field, James Laherrere, and he made an assessment of the USGS report which was the basis for this prediction of our Energy Information Agency that we are going to find this incredible amount of new oil. This is what he says: ``The USGS estimate implies a fivefold increase in discovery rate and reserve addition for which no evidence is presented,'' no evidence other than their computer modeling. ``Such an improvement in performance is utterly implausible given the great technological achievements of the industry over the past 20 years, the worldwide search, and the deliberate effort to find the largest remaining prospects.'' 
   We now have vastly better discovery techniques. We have computer modeling. We have 3-D seismic, and we pretty much have mapped the world. And oil and gas can occur only in fairly unique geological formations, and we know what those formations are, and we know pretty much where they are. 
   The next chart is very interesting. It shows the EIA projections of discovery, how much oil we were going to discover. This is the discovery peak, not the use peak because we in the past discovered enormously more oil than we used. But this is the discovery peak. They made this chart in about 2000 and this red line was the discovery peak in the past up to that time. Then they made three projections for the future. 
   One was their 50 percent probability. The mean, which is the 50 percent; the P 95 which is the yellow one; and the blue one, which is the 5 percent probability. They said there was a 5 percent probability we would find an incredible amount of oil, and they said there was a 95 percent probability that we would find only this tiny little bit done here. And the mean was this green line, and they saw it going up better and better. 
   But look at what happened. The red data points show that the discoveries were precisely what you would have predicted them to be if in fact it is a probability, 95 percent probable, it is certainly a whole lot more probable than 50 percent probable, and the actual production curve has followed the 95 percent probability. 
   All of this has given rise to a statement by Condoleezza Rice, and this is a very insightful statement on April 5, 2006: ``We do have to do something about the energy problem. I can tell you that nothing has really taken me aback more as Secretary of State than the way that the politics of energy is, I will use the word warping diplomacy around the world. We have simply got to do something about the warping now of diplomat effort by the all-out rush for energy supply.'' 
   Let me put the next chart up, and this chart comes from an incredible speech given by Hyman Rickover, the father of our nuclear submarine. I just want to quote a couple of things. By the way, if you do a Google search, Mr. Speaker, and ask for Hyman Rickover and energy, I think you can probably pull up this speech he gave on May 14, 1957. He gave this speech at a banquet of the annual Scientific Assembly of the Minnesota State Medical Association in St. Paul, Minnesota. Let me just read a couple of things that he says in this speech because he was so prophetic: 
   ``With high energy consumption goes a high standard of living.'' And this was 50 years ago. What would he say today? ``Thus, the enormous fossil fuel energy which we in this country control feeds machines which make each of us master of an army of mechanical slaves. Man's muscle power is rated at 35 watts continuously, or \1/20\th horsepower. Machines, therefore, furnish every American industrial worker with energy equivalent to that of 244 men, while at least 2,000 men push his automobile along the road, and his family is supplied with 33 faithful household helpers. Each locomotive engineer controls energy equivalent to that of 100,000 men; each jet pilot of 700,000 men. Truly, the humblest American enjoys the services of more slaves than were once owned by the richest nobles, and lives better than most ancient kings. In retrospect, and despite wars, revolutions and disasters, the 100 years just gone by may well seem like a golden age.'' 
   Then he says: ``Whether this golden age will continue depends entirely upon our ability to keep energy supplies in balance with the needs of our growing population.'' 
   And if all of these experts that I have quoted are right and if T. Boone Pickens is right, we have now reached the maximum production of oil, which means that we are going to have to learn to live with what we have got for the moment, and then there will be a time when it is going to be harder and harder, and less and less will be found. 
   Ultimately the nation which controls the largest energy sources will become dominant. We don't own them, but we control them with our dollars because we now are buying a fourth of all of the oil in the world. China is buying oil around the world. Why would they do that? You don't need to own a single oil well and will get all of the oil you want if you simply have the dollars to pay for it. I think it is an interesting exercise to reflect on why China might be buying these oil wells. 
   If we act wisely and in time to conserve what we have, I have a notice we haven't been doing much of that, and prepare well for necessary future changes, we shall ensure this dominant position for our own country. 
   What are these people talking about? What is peak oil, the next chart, and this chart is a chart from the Cambridge Energy Research Associates, and you will see them referred to as one of the major authorities in this area. They do not believe what T. Boone Pickens said today. They think that peaking is quite a ways out, and they created this little chart to ridicule the scientists who predicted that the United States would peak in 1970 and we did peak in 1970. By the way, he predicted the world would be peaking about now. If he was right about the United States, why shouldn't he be right about the world? 
   They used this chart to ridicule him, and I think it gives credibility to what he said. The total U.S. production is the red curve. M. King Hubbert predicted that we would peak in 1970. In 1970 we reached a peak. He was making that prediction only from the lower 48. He couldn't have known that we were going to find a lot of oil in Alaska, and we did. What that lot of oil in Alaska did was to produce this little bump here. 
   I have been at zero miles of that 4-foot pipeline that for many years produced a fourth of all the oil that we produced, and it only made this little blip in the downslope of Hubbert's peak. CERA says because this was the curve rather than the predicted curve of Hubbert here, he was therefore a fraud and not to be believed. I think there is reasonable concurrence between these. 
   The actual, by the way, for the lower 48 which he produced follows pretty well his prediction, and we found the additional oil in Alaska which kicked it up a little. But in spite of everything that we have done, we now are producing half the oil that we produced in 1970.  
   My last chart, and this chart, I could spend the whole hour talking about this, and I may do that some evening, but this chart has an enormous amount of information on it. These are the discoveries. This is when we discovered it. The black curve is how much we used. For many years we found very much more than we used. But starting in 1980, we started finding less and less and less, and our use rate went up and up and up. Here is the 1970 blip, and it keeps on going up. For all of this time we were dipping into reserves. We have a lot of reserves left. 
   What will the future look like? One thing is certain, you cannot bump what you have not found. These graphs, the area under these curves represents the volume, the amount. So the area, if you put a smooth curve over this one, the area under that curve would represent the amount of oil that we have found. 
   The area under this consumption curve would represent the amount of oil that we use. You can't use oil you haven't found. Within some limits we can make the future look like we want it to look with enhanced recovery and feverish drilling and so forth. But I would submit that you can't pump what you haven't found, and I would like the listener to make his own judgment as to how much we can change what they predict here will be the future production of oil. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (THE RIGHT TO LIFE, THE STEM CELL DEBATE, AND PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, in the few moments that we have together this evening, I wanted to talk briefly about three different subjects. The first one is a very timely one. It refers to a Supreme Court decision that I think is a very momentous decision.  
   When our Founding Fathers wrote our Constitution, they thought that they had implicitly placed in that Constitution all of the great guarantees of freedom and individual rights that were needed for this new Nation. But the ink was hardly dry on the Constitution before they wondered if people would really understand that it was the people who are to be preeminent in this new country, that there was to be a very limited government, and it would truly be a government of the people, by the people and for the people. Because they felt that what was very implicit in the Constitution might need to be stated explicitly, they developed 10 amendments, actually I think a dozen started through the process and 10 of them made it through the process, and we call them the Bill of Rights. They were adopted, of course, in 1791. And I think that it's no accident that that first amendment addresses two of the huge concerns they had from their past that should never blemish their new country.     
   The first of those dealt with what was a common practice in the countries they came from, that is, it was a State religion that was empowered by the State and supported by the State with revenues, taxes from the people, and this church could and did persecute other churches, and they wanted to make very sure that in this new country that that wasn't going to be a problem. So they wrote the establishment clause of the first amendment, which seems to me very clear language. A lot of people have trouble reading this and understanding what it says. I think the words say what they say. ``Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion.'' 
   The government cannot establish a religion. ``Or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.'' No church religion and everybody free to practice their religion as they please. Somehow we are interpreting that as requiring that there not be any religion in the public place, which is clearly not what they were concerned about. They wanted freedom of religion, not freedom from religion, and, too often, we're interpreting as freedom from religion. 
   But then the second part of this is equally important, and it addresses a second major challenge that they saw in establishing this new country. Because most of them came from a country where there was a king or an emperor who claimed and was granted divine rights, and the people had very few rights, only what the king chose to give them. Hard for us to understand that. It is so foreign to us that the king or the emperor should have divine rights. By that it means that the rights came from God to the king or the emperor, and he would then give what rights he wished to his subjects. 
   Abraham Lincoln understood four score and seven years after the establishment of our country, that is after the establishment of the Declaration of Independence, our fathers brought forth on this continent a new Nation conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. That was very foreign to them. It's very commonplace to us, and we read those words and don't have any swell of pride or lump in our throat when we read them, as we should. 
   But then they wrote that second part of the first amendment, which, along with the second amendment, they believed would assure that never, ever could the government persecute the people. In this first amendment they said, ``or abridging the freedom of speech or the press or the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to petition the government for a redress of grievances.'' 
   Now, the speech that they clearly were most interested in preserving was political speech, because that's the speech that made this country different from all the other countries that our Founding Fathers came from. 
   Tragically, it's just that political speech which was prohibited by the Campaign Finance Reform Act that we passed, and there was a court case, Right to Life, Wisconsin Group, broadcast ads before the 2004 race, in which they talked about issues. But they did mention the name of a candidate, I believe. 
   I am so proud of the Supreme Court decision. I am a little distressed that it was only 5-4. I would have thought that this would be such a clear-cut case that it would be 9-0, but let's be thankful for 5-4 rather than 4-5. 
   I really like the position of the majority. The portion of the law in question in this case states that labor unions and corporations, including nonprofits, cannot use money from their general treasuries to broadcast ads that run 30 days before a primary or 60 days before a general election. 
   On a nonpresidential year, my primary is in September, which means it is 60 days from November, so there can't be any ads during that time, and no ads before the 30 days before the primary. I would submit that very few people are thinking anything about an election 90 days before it occurs. 
   So what this legislation did was essentially prohibit any education before an election. The Supreme Court, in their ruling, created a constitutional safe harbor for genuine issue ads. It stated that only if the ad, and this is a direct quote, ``is susceptible of no reasonable interpretation other than as an appeal to vote for or against a specific candidate,'' can the ad be prohibited during the blackout period. 
   This is consistent with our philosophy in our country that we are innocent until proven guilty. The ad has to explicitly ask you to vote for or against a candidate. Mentioning his name, that's okay, if you don't indicate specific guidance to vote for or against the candidate. 
   I am very pleased with this legislation. You know, we are 1 person out of 22 in the world and we have a fourth of all the good things in the world. I don't know if you have ever asked yourself the question, how come we are so darn fortunate? 
   I think one of the reasons we have is the enormous respect we have for the rights of the individual. There is no other country, there is no other constitution that gives so many rights to the people, to the individual. 
   I think that this has established a milieu, a climate, in which creativity and entrepreneurship can flourish. I think that's one of the reasons why we are this world superpower, with only less than 5 percent of the people in the world. I think we put at risk who we are, and our preeminence as this golden city on a hill, if we put at risk these very precious individual rights and, prince among them, the right of speech. So I am very pleased. I am very pleased with the Supreme Court decision. 
   There is another thing which happened fairly recently last week, about less than 10 of us, I guess, were called to the White House from the Congress here, when the President gave his message on his veto of the embryonic stem cell bill that would have necessitated the destruction of embryos and the creation of embryonic stem cell lines. 
   What the President vetoed was S. 5, that's the Senate bill, and in the House we simply voted on S. 5. When you do that, then there is no question but what the two bills are the same, so you do not have to go to conference. So it went immediately from the House vote to the President's desk, where he vetoed it. 
   The Senate also passed S. 30, which is a very similar bill to our House bill 322. It was called the HOPE Act in the Senate, and it got 70 votes out of their 100 senators. We have 130 cosponsors of our bill in the House. 
   I hope that the House can do what the Senate did, and that is pass S. 30. If we pass S. 30, then it doesn't have to go to conference, and it can go directly to the President's desk, and S. 30 is sufficiently similar to our H.R. 322 that I can, with good conscience, support that bill. 
   I want to spend a moment, and have the first slide, I want to spend a few moments looking at embryonic stem cells so that when this comes to the news we have a familiarity with this so that we can understand the issues and what the President is talking about. We are talking about stem cells, and this slide here points to three primary stem cells in the body. 
   You see, we begin as two single cells, a single cell 
   from the mother and a single cell from the father. Each of them having only half of the requisite number of chromosomes. They have a haploid number and the total number is a diploid number, so these two halves come together here in what we call the zygote, the two gametes come together to form a zygote, and then that begins to divide, and each us began our life as a single cell.  
   It divides, and we will have a chart a little later which will show a number of the other steps in this division process. But here we wanted to go very quickly to the gastro stage of the embryo where the three germ layers, and that's the first time we have a germ layer, where the three germ layers have developed, that's the ectoderm, the mesoderm and the endoderm. As these Greek terms imply, the ectoderm is outside; the meso, middle, is what's in the middle, and the endoderm is what lines the inside. 
   Here in this chart it shows the major tissues that develop from these three germ layers. It's very interesting that they retain their individuality throughout your life. I believe that a cancer metastasizes only to tissues of the same germ layer. So these characteristics that are established very early in the development of the embryo, a few hundred cells here by this time, this continues throughout the life of the person. 
   The ectoderm produces primarily your skin and your nervous system. The mesoderm produces most of your weight, it's the muscles and the bones, blood and so forth. Endoderm is the tissues which line the gut, lungs, in some our glands and so forth. 
   A unique, over there, a fourth category, the most unique germ cells, these are the germ cells themselves. These are the gametes, the sperm in the male and the ova in the female, from which the next generation will be produced. These are produced, these germ layers producing these things are resident in this very early embryo. 
   The next chart talks about several processes that you will hear a lot about in this discussion, but it might be worth looking at them, this is fertilization. In the fertilization process, the cells divide again and again in the body. The sperm divides many, many times and they end up as millions and millions of sperm. There are hundreds of the female sex cell and millions of sperm. 
   The last division, or the near the last division is what we call a miotic division, and the number of chromosomes are cut in half. After that miotic division, you then have the egg cell with only half of the needed chromosomes and the sperm with only half of the needed chromosomes. When they are combined, that's called fertilization, and that occurs, of course, to produce the zygote, which begin then to divide over and over again and ultimately to differentiate, that is to break down into these different kinds of cells, to differentiate into all of the cell types of our body. 
   There is a lot of talk since Dolly about cloning, and here's a little chart which looks at cloning. What you do in cloning is to take the nucleus out of an egg cell, and then you put another nucleus by one of two different routes, either by fusion or taking the nucleus out itself and putting it into the egg. 
   If you had done that right, and you have tricked this nucleus you put in there to believe that it is a zygote, and that requires a little doing, then it goes on to divide, and now you have a, I guess it's an asexual way of reproducing. 
   We now have done that with lots of animals and different kinds of organisms. I saw two clones from the world's best Holstein cow, Zeta was her name, request she had two clones which, interestingly enough, didn't look like her mother and that's because the black and white Holstein cows, only whether it is predominantly black or white is determined by the genes. The actual spread of the pigment is not genetically controlled, and so her two daughters, which were clones of her, didn't look like her. Kind of interesting it, isn't it. 
   Parthenogenesis. Parthenogenesis occurs when there is no male sex cell involved, and it occurs in some lower organisms. Parthenogenesis is common, and it can be produced in others, in the frog, for example. What happens is you stop the miotic division of the oocyte up here. 
   You stop that miotic division so there is a diploid number of cells here. Then under appropriate circumstances, and usually in higher organisms, it requires some artificial stimulation. It will go on to develop a normal, adult, ultimately.     
   The next chart shows this process as it occurs in the body. Now, what we're talking about, when you're talking about cloning and embryonic stem cells, this all happens in a Petri dish. But what we, that's in vitro or in glass, as contrasted to in vivo or in life. And this is what happens in the normal fertilization and development of an ovum. The ovary has maturing cells in it and ordinarily, just one of those ruptures every 30 days, every 28 days. Sometimes it will be more than one, in which case you can end up with fraternal twins. But usually, just one. They don't always, by the way, get picked up by, there's a little funnel shaped end of the Fallopian tube here called the infandibulum. They don't always get picked up by that, and sometimes they just float out into the pelvic cavity. 
   And the sperm which are released in the uterus, in the vagina really, and then they make it up through the cervix into the uterus, they make their way all the way up the Fallopian tube, and some of them get out into the body. And if the ovum has not made it into the Fallopian tube, they may be fertilized out in the body, and we call that an ectopic pregnancy, and that has to be interrupted because neither the fetus nor the mother will make it if we let that continue. 
   But ordinarily, the fertilization occurs well up in the Fallopian tube. Several days, you see the days here as it gross and divides into two and four and eight cells and then on down until it finally implants, what, 8, 9 days later before it implants. And some of the birth control that we use simply prevents the implantation. The intra-uterine devices that were common a number of years ago, that's what they did. They simply prohibited the fertilized and several hundred cell stage embryo from implanting in the uterus. 
   Now, what we're going to be talking about is this eight-cell stage. That's about day 4 in the development of the embryo, and at that eight-cell stage, that's the time when an in vitro fertilization, they choose to take a cell from that. This is in a Petri dish remember, take a cell from that. Sometimes they get two to do a pre-implantation genetic diagnosis to make sure the baby's not going to have a genetic defect. And then they implant the remaining cells. And several thousand times we've had a perfectly normal baby from that. 
   The next chart simply shows in schematic form the development of twins. And they can split, either at the two cell stage, or they can split at the inter cell mass stage and we can get some indication of when they split by how the babies present themselves, whether they present themselves in a common amnion or in two different amnions. 
   I wanted to put this slide up here because what it says is that in nature, you can take half the cells away from the early embryo, sometimes a very early embryo, and each half grows into a perfectly normal baby. 
   And back in 2000, when this was first being discussed, before the President came out with his executive order, knowing this, and having had a course in a former life in advanced embryology, I suggested that we could ethically create true embryonic stem cell lines by using cells from an early embryo which should not hurt the embryo, because half of all the cells can be taken a way to produce identical twins, and each half produces a perfectly normal identical twin. 
   The next chart simply shows a little more detail on this, and it shows how the babies can be presented in separate chorionic sac or in a common fused chorionic sac, depending upon the time in which they, and they may share an amnion or not share an amnion, depending on the time when they finally split. 
   The next chart shows us some of the techniques that are used to try to get the equivalent of an embryonic stem cell, since the President and a large number of citizens object to the destruction of one life, the frozen embryo, with the hope that it will help another. And these are the techniques that have been tried to produce the equivalent of an embryonic stem cell. Reprogramming using embryonic stem cells and using embryonic stem cell and donor cells, and you fuse them and the hybrid cells, hopefully, will act like they were embryonic stem cells. 
   Or you could use differentiation using cell proteins. What is not understood by many people is that all of the  genes are not in the nucleus. There are a number of control factors that are in the cytoplasm. Indeed, they are really very important because they determine when genes are turned on and when genes are turned off. And each cell in your body has all of the genes there. And a liver cell is very different than a kidney cell or a skin cell. And that difference is determined by the control proteins out in the--some of them are smaller than proteins, out in the cytoplasm called here cell soup, for instance, which then turns on or turns off these genes inside the nucleus. 
   Well, we can, hopefully, get this cell soup from embryonic stem cells or something that behaves like an embryonic stem cell, which will then make the donor cell believe that it is, in fact, an embryonic stem cell, so maybe it will behave like an embryonic stem cell. 
   Then there's de-differentiation, using chemicals, antibodies or specific proteins. You see, when it differentiates to produce the individual germ layers, we have to de-differentiate it, bring it back to its primordial state so that it will now behave more like an embryonic stem cell. You can de-differentiate by using a lot of chemicals and so forth. These may be harsh. You may end up killing the little embryo. But if you do it right, you can trick these cells into believing that there's something other than what they are, and they then will behave as if they were an embryonic stem cell. 
   You've heard a lot of talk about some really good places to get cells that have some of the characteristics of embryonic stem cells. There are now umbilical cord blood banks, because of the belief that if you freeze the cord blood, which is the blood from the infant, if you freeze that cord blood, it may have in it cells that you can use in the future to help in restorative medical processes or make body parts. 
   These are not true embryonic stem cells, but they're certainly better than cells you get from somebody else. At least they're from that person and they have, they're more closely aligned with embryonic stem cells than if you simply got an adult body cell. 
   Then there's the bone marrow cells. And more recently you may have heard a lot about amnionic fluid. The amnion is the fluid in which the baby develops. He's very tiny. The embryo starts there. And obviously some cells will be sloughed off of these embryos, and as those cells will show up in the amniotic fluid, and so there's good opportunities to get something that behaves something like embryonic stem cells there. 
   The next chart shows, I think, four of the processes that were included in the President's white paper from the President's Council on Bio ethics. And altered nuclear transfer is one of those. This is kind of a cloning where you've altered the nucleus, so that it can't be truly said to be cloning, which is prohibited by law. 
   Altered nuclear transfers, oocyte assisted reprogramming, it's simply using the oocyte and it's primarily the proteins, that factors out in the cytoplasm which are doing this. 
   Embryo biopsy, and I have a chart in just a moment 
   on that because this is the process which I suggested in 2000. 
   And then a really, really interesting one, cells from dead. And boy, put that in quotes because what we're talking about here are embryos that are the equivalent of the brain dead person, from which we get very good body parts. And there are embryos that will not go on to divide. They will ultimately die, and that state can be ascertained, and if they are not going to go on and divide, they will die. But they still may have viable cells that could be used to establish embryonic stem cell lines. 
   Obviously, some problems with this, you know. Who's to say that it's really going to die? And then there's the question about, are you really going to get a good stem cell line from a cell taken from an about to die embryo. But this is one possibility, and there are some strong proponents to this. 
   The next chart simply shows a quote from the white paper of the President's Council on Bio Ethics. And it quotes me down here at the bottom an asterisk, a similar idea was proposed by Representative Roscoe Bartlett of Maryland as far back as 2001. They said here, ``It may be some time before stem cell lines can be reliably derived from single cells extracted from early embryos and in ways that do not harm the embryo. Thus biopsy. 
   But the initial success of the Verlinsky Group efforts at least raises the future possibility that pluripotent stem cells could be derived from single blastomeres removed from early human embryos without apparently harming them. 
   Now, this statement was made before the British, and they pioneered this, started doing the pre-implantation genetic diagnosis that I mentioned a few minutes ago. They now have, in several thousand cases, taken one, and sometimes they get a second cell, taken cells from the 8 cell stage embryo to do a pre-implantation genetic diagnosis. If there is no genetic defect, they implant the remaining cells. And as far as I know, they always had a perfectly normal baby. 
   Now, the big surprise would be that the baby wasn't perfectly normal. I've had people tell me, gee, it's eight cells, and you take two of them away so it's only three-fourths of a person. 
   No, when you take half the cells away to from an early embryo to produce identical twins, is each one of them only half a person? Ask one. There are a lot of identical twins around. They'll just laugh at the notion that they're half a person. Of course they are not. 
   So this, the medical profession now has run past us with this technology. So we could today establish embryonic stem cell lines from that second cell that they inadvertently take. And there have been hundreds of those that are just discarded because they have no use for them. Just one cell is all you need to do a pre-implantation genetic diagnosis. And Verlinksy and Lanza, Lanza with a somewhat questionable publication, but both of them have claimed that they can produce a stem cell line from a single cell line. 
   Well, I thought I would spend these few minutes talking about this because this is of current interest and the Senate will be shortly trying to override the President's veto. They almost certainly will not be able to do that. His veto will be sustained, and our hope is that S. 30 will then be brought up in the House so that we can sign that so it gets to the President's desk. And I join those tens of millions of people in our country who believe and hope that there ought to be some really important contributions made to health care from embryonic stem cell lines. And we don't need to harm or kill an embryo to get an embryonic stem cell line. So we hope that S. 30 will be brought up to the House and we pass that. And the President already indicated that he will happily sign it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - April 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, if Thomas Jefferson could be resurrected today, he would be surprised by many things that he found. As my good friend from Texas just indicated, he would be enormously surprised by the size of our Federal Government, because he had envisioned a country in which we had a very limited Federal Government. 
   But there is something else that I remember about Thomas Jefferson that would really surprise him today. What he wanted for his new country was a largely agrarian society, with just enough cities to provide the manufacturing necessary to sustain an agricultural economy. He wanted this, he said, because he didn't want his new country to be blighted by the decadence of cities, as were the countries of Europe and the British Isles that they came from. He really, really would be quite surprised if he could be resurrected and come to our country today, wouldn't he, where far, far more than half of our people live in cities far larger than any he could have imagined at that time. 
   Mr. Speaker, this, I believe, is the 42nd time that I have come here to the floor to talk about energy and primarily about oil. The first time I came here was a little over 3 years ago. Oil was just over $50 a barrel then, and I was talking about a history that, had we paid attention to it, would have told us that today, or sometime roughly near this, we would be here with oil at $115 a barrel, that is what it touched in Asia overnight, and with gasoline at the pump out there averaging somewhere near $3.50 a gallon. 
   It was absolutely inevitable that we would be here. It was predicted that we would be here. And with all of these warnings, we really should have been doing something about that, and why we weren't is a very interesting subject. 
   There were two speeches given on energy in the last century that I think will be increasingly recognized, one of them as the most important speech given, and the other one the most insightful speech given. 
   I have here a quote from what I think was perhaps the most insightful speech given on energy. It was a speech given by Admiral Hyman Rickover, the father of our nuclear submarine, to a group of physicians in St. Paul, Minnesota, on the 14th day of May, 1957. 
   He says, ``In the 8,000 years from the beginning of history to the year 2000 A.D.,'' he was looking ahead, ``world population will have grown from 10 million to 4 billion.'' He really missed that, didn't he? It is nearly 7 billion. He really had a pretty good concept of what energy was doing for us, but he had underestimated the contribution that energy would make to the growth of our population, because we are now somewhere near 7 billion people, with 90 percent of that growth, more than 90 percent, taking place during the last 5 percent of that period, in 400 years. It took the first 3,000 years of recorded history to accomplish the first doubling of population, 100 years for the first doubling, but the next doubling will require only 50 years. And, of course, it required less than that, because we are now far more than doubled. 
   The next chart kind of depicts what Hyman Rickover was talking about. What this shows is the last part of that 8,000 years of recorded history. We have here only about 400 years of it. But if you went back the rest of the 8,000 years, the graph would look about the same. The production of energy was down there so near zero that it looked like it was on the zero line. 
   Here we see the beginning of the Industrial Revolution. It began with wood, of course. That is the brown line there. Then we discovered coal and we produced considerably more energy. Then we discovered gas and oil, and, boy, it shot up. Now, if I had a curve of the growth in population, it would just track almost precisely this curve in the increase in energy available. 
   This is an interesting curve, and I would like to spend just a moment looking at it. It is a very steep curve. Now, we can make this curve much less steep if we spread out the abscissa and compress the ordinate, and a little later we will have some curves that are that way. But you can still see the essentials of what this curve shows you. 
   Here is the oil price spike hikes of the seventies. You will see it resulted in a worldwide recession that actually reduced the use of oil. And now, after recovery from that recession, with a great deal more respect for efficiency, we are now increasing our use of energy at a very much lesser slope. 
   Now, in this chart where we have such a compressed abscissa, that is not as evident. It will be later. Later when we come to that I will point to the fact that this very steep curve, were it to have continued, we would be off the top of the chart and we would be in considerably more trouble relative to energy than we are today. 
   The next chart is another quote from this great speech that Hyman Rickover gave a little over 50 years ago. ``There is nothing that man can do to rebuild exhausted fossil fuel reserves.'' When they are gone, they are gone. You can't recycle energy. When it is used, it is gone. They were created by solar energy a very long time ago, he says 50 million years ago. It took eons to grow to their present volume. 
   In the face of the basic fact that fossil fuel reserves are finite, the exact length of time--I want you to listen to this statement, so insightful--the exact length of time these reserves will last is important in only one respect. The longer they last, the more time that we have to invent ways of living off renewable or substitute energy sources and to adjust our economy to the vast changes which we can expect from such a shift. 
   Fifty-one years ago. Tremendous advice. He recognized this. And he says we were living in a golden age. Exactly how long this golden age lasted would be only important in one regard. The longer it lasted, the more time we would have to shift to alternative sources of fuel, because fossil fuels, oil, gas and coal, are not infinite. They are finite. They will run out. The only question was not if, it was when will they run out. He said the longer they lasted, the more time we would have to invent ways of living off renewable or substitute energy sources. 
   The world has done essentially none of that in the 51 years since he made that statement and gave that counsel. We have behaved in our use of fossil fuels as if they were in fact infinite, as if they would always be there. Tomorrow there will be another huge find, and we can just go on using as much energy as we wish for as long as we wish. 
   The next chart is another quote from Hyman Rickover. ``Whether this golden age will continue depends entirely upon our ability to keep energy supplies in balance with the needs of our growing population.'' And oil is $115 a barrel and gas is $3.50 a gallon at the pump because we have not been able to keep energy supplies in balance with the needs of our growing population and our growing economies in this country and around the world, and we now have an imbalance between supply and demand. The demand is greater than the supply, and whenever that happens, of course, the price goes up, and the price has gone up. 
   The next chart is a quote from one of four studies that have been paid for by your government and have been pretty much ignored by your government. All four of these studies have said essentially the same thing, that peaking of oil is either present or imminent, with potentially devastating consequences, and we really need to be doing something about that. 
   The Corps of Engineers was one of those studies, the second one, in September of 2005. An earlier one, the Hirsch Report, was in February of 2005.  Then last year there were two more reports, one by the Government Accountability Office, and the other by the National Petroleum Council. 
   Oil, they said, is the most important form of energy in the world today. Historically, no other energy source equals oil's intrinsic qualities of extractability, transportability, versatility and cost. It has been really cheap. One barrel of oil represents the work output of 12 people working all year, 25,000 man-hours of effort. 
   When I first saw that statistic, I said, gee, that can't be true. Then I thought about it, how far that gallon of gas, still cheaper than water in the grocery store, carries my Prius; about 47-48 miles.     
   I know I could pull my Prius 47, 48 miles with a come-along and using guardrails and trees and so forth. How long would it take me to pull my Prius 47 miles? 
   Certainly it is true that historically no other energy resource equals oil's qualities. Its quality of energy and the quantity of energy in these fossil fuels, particularly, oil is just incredible. That's one of the big challenges we face in finding alternatives for these fossil fuels is something that has the quality and the quantity of the energy in these fossil fuels. 
   The next chart is a cartoon that asked the question ``Just why is gas so expensive?'' You can see here a tiny little supply and a huge demand, and that, of course, is why oil is so expensive. It's because the demand exceeds the supply. 
   This problem is an even more demanding problem than just a supply and demand, because as the next chart shows us, the major supplies of oil come, as the President said in one of his State of the Union messages from countries that don't even like us, this is a chart which shows what the world would look like if the size of the country was relative to how much oil it had in the ground. 
   You see here that Saudi Arabia dominates the landscape. Saudi Arabia represents about 22 percent of all the reserves of oil in the world, and you see how large the reserves are in countries like Iraq and tiny little Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. You almost have to have a magnifying glass to see them, they are so small. Look how huge they are relative to oil, then Iran huge. Russia, just a couple of days ago, Russia had indicated that had they had reached a maximum capacity for producing oil. 
   The United States, we have 2 percent of the known reserves of oil in the world. We use a fourth of the world's oil. What I really would like to focus on is the size of India and China over their more than a third of the world's population, and they have less oil than we have, and we have only 2 percent of the known reserves of oil in the world. 
   The next chart has this in some numbers, and these numbers inspired 30 of our prominent Americans, Jim Woolsey, McFarland, Boyden Gray and 27 others to write several years ago a letter to the President saying, Mr. President, the fact that we have only 2 percent of the world's oil reserves, and we used 25 percent of the world's oil and import almost two-thirds of what we use is an almost totally unacceptable national security risk, and we really have got to do something about that. That's true that this represents a huge national security risk. 
   This was recognized in our next chart by the Secretary of State in a comment that she made before a Senate committee just a bit over 2 years, April 5, 2006. ``We do have to do something about the energy problem--I can tell you that nothing has really taken me aback more as Secretary of State than the politics of the way energy is. I will use the word `warping' diplomacy around the world. We have simply got to do something about the warping now of diplomatic effort by the all-out rush for energy supply.'' In that all-out rush, China is scouring the world and buying up oil reserves wherever they can find them. 
   The next chart looks again at the geopolitical picture. Why is oil just so expensive? Many people believe that OPEC is gouging us. Others believe that our oil companies are gouging us. 
   The truth, of course, is that the price of oil is determined by the relationship between the supply of oil and the demand for oil. 
   Our large companies and the countries that are producing oil just happen to be happy recipients of this confluence of events which demands more oil than is available and so the price is up. 
   What this chart looks at is the top 10 of the oil and gas companies on the basis of how much oil they have. You see that 98 percent of these top 10 are all countries, they are not companies. 
   Most of the oil in the world is not owned by companies, it's own by countries. LUKOIL, which is kind of an independent oil company in Russia, is only 2 percent at the top of this bar. 
   The bar here looks at the top 10 oil and gas companies on the basis of production. Now, we have huge oil companies. ExxonMobil, the largest one in the world, Royal Dutch/Shell, BP, collectively, they produce only 22 percent of the oil, and these state-owned fields produce only 78 percent of the oil. 
   The next chart I mentioned, China's interest in scouring the world and looking for oil, wherever you see a dollar sign on this chart, we have bought some oil. Here I see a dollar sign here, I see a dollar sign, not very many of them. When you see this little Chinese symbol kind of a sign here that's where China has bought oil. 
   Here is one, they tried to buy Unocal in our country. You see their symbol all over the world. They are aggressively buying oil all over the world. 
   In today's world it really doesn't make any difference who owns the oil, the person who has the dollars. It's an auction, a bidding process. The person who has the dollars buys the oil. 
   Why would China be buying up oil if they simply come with the dollars and you buy all the oil they need on the world market? Well, it's hard to get inside another person's head, but it may just be that they are looking to the day when they will not be able to share their oil with the world. 
   Now, all the oil in all the world is shared with all of the world. It's all a huge auction pool and everybody contributes and everybody buys. That happy day may end. 
   The next chart. If you had only one chart to look at to inform yourself about where we are and what the challenge is, I think this would be the chart. This chart shows bars that represent the amount of oil that we discovered year by year. You see that we had huge, huge discoveries back in the 1960s and 1970s. 
   Then from about the 1980s, I am really starting about the 1970s on, we progressively found, choppy up and down, but less and less and less oil. That's in spite of 
   ever-better techniques for finding oil. 
   The solid black line here represents the oil that we have used. Here is the 1970s, and notice the reduction in use there as a result of a worldwide recession brought on by the oil price spike hikes then. 
   Now, this is an expansion of the abscissa--and I indicated earlier we would have a chart where there is a huge difference in slope. Remember we had that red one just going straight up. If we could compress this abscissa we could make that one go almost straight up. 
   But notice how much less the slope is after the recession of the 1970s. That's because the world woke up and said, gee, oil is expensive, isn't it, and we can do better, and let's be more efficient. 
   The air conditioner you have today may be two or three more times more efficient, as is your refrigerator. We now have fluorescent lights, and they are very much more efficient than incandescent lights. So this lesser slope of the curve represents increased efficiency. Were it not for that, notice where we would be on the curve now, we would be off the top of the chart now, wouldn't we, if this kept going. 
   By the way, I want to just make one observation about exponential growth. This is, of course, exponential growth. Albert Einstein was asked, Dr. Einstein, what will be the next big force we find after nuclear energy? His response, the most powerful force in the universe is the power of compound interest. 
   Just 2 percent growth, that's so anemic, that our market doesn't like it. It really kind of teeters, it stutters a little and doesn't grow with 2 percent growth. Things tend to be pessimistic, but 2 percent growth doubles in 35 years, it's 4 times bigger in 70 years,  it's 9 times bigger in 105 years and it's 16 times bigger in 140 years, just 2 percent growth, compound growth. So if this compound growth had continued, this will be off the top of the page. 
   That was kind of a trauma going through the 1970, but we really should look back on it and say how lucky we were that we had a wake-up call because look what happened? We got much more efficient, and so now we are in much less trouble than we would have been had we not had this chalk, and we would have continued along this curve. 
   The next chart, the next chart is one from the U.S. Corps of Engineers. In general, all nonrenewable resources follow a natural supply curve, production increases rapidly, slows, reaches a peak and then declines at a rapid pace similar to its initial increase. 
   The major question for petroleum is not whether production will peak, this is one of the four studies your government paid for and is now ignoring. It's not whether the production will peak but when. Oil is not infinite in its supply, it is finite. There is only so much. 
   One day we will reach our maximum capabilities for producing oil. There are many estimates of recoverable petroleum reserves giving rise to many estimates of when peak oil will occur and how high the peak will be. A careful review of all the estimates leads to the conclusion that world oil production may peak within a few short years, after which it will decline. 
   Once peak oil curves, then the historic patterns of world oil demand and price cycles will cease. They might have gone on to explain what that's going to do to our economy. 
   The next slide--and I have to go back more than 50 years to put this in context--on the 8th day of March in 1956, the most important speech, what I think will certainly recognize will be the most important speech of the last century was given, and this speech was given by a Shell Oil Company scientist, M. King Hubbert, to a group of physicians in St. Paul, Minnesota. 
   At that time, the United States was king of oil. We were producing more oil, consuming more oil and shipping more oil than any country in the world. What M. King Hubbert told them was that in 16 short years, 14 short years, you are going to reach your maximum production of oil. He made that prediction in 1956. And sure enough in 1970, the yellow symbols here we reached our maximum production. 
   Now, the actual maximum production was a little bit higher, it was the green squares there, and they tended to be a little bit higher going down the slope on the other side of Hubbert's peak. Some would have you believe the difference between M. King Hubbert's predictions the gold triangles and the oil that we actually pump indicate that he didn't really know what he was talking about. 
   Well, it did peak in 1970, and it did go down after that. If you aren't a statistician, I think the average person would look at that and say, gee, he really got it pretty right didn't he. 
   Now the red squares there on the other side represent the total amount of oil that we pump, because he had only predicted the lower 48, and we added huge amounts of oil from Alaska, a fourth of our total production for the last several years, and from the Gulf of Mexico. Even with those hugely large extra supplies, there was still just a blip in the slope down the other side of Hubbert's peak. 
   Now the same person that predicted that the United States would be peaking in 1970. In 1979, he predicted that the world would be peaking about now. 
   We have kind of blown, not kind of, we have blown the last 28 years, because by 1980, here we are in 1980, we looked back and, boy, M. King Hubbert was right about the United States. We did peak in 1970. In spite of drilling more oil wells than all the rest of the world put together, we have not been able to make a liar out of M. King Hubbert. 
   Today we produce about half of the oil we produced in 1970. In the lower 48 we produce way less than half of the oil that we produced then.     
   Now in 1979 he predicted that the world would be peaking about now. 
   The next chart has data from two entities in our world that are pretty good at tracking how much oil we pump and use. By the way, we use all we pump. There are no big reservoirs of oil waiting to be used. I would caution that I don't think these entities have the same fidelity in predicting how much more we will find in the future, but they do a very good job of tracking what we've used. This is the EIA and the IEA. The IEA is the International Energy Agency. You hear them referred to. They are the ones that are tracking what is going on in Iran with their nuclear thing. And the EIA is the Energy Information Administration and is a part of our own Department of Energy. Both of those have oil production plateauing; one of them for about 3 years, and the other for about a year and a half. 
   What happens when demand keeps going up and supply stagnates? This price curve shows you what happens. We had a comfortable dip here in prices less than a year ago, but now they are skyrocketing, and $115 is off the top of the chart. We need to make a new chart to show where 115. 
   The question I ask myself and audiences is: If M. King Hubbert was right about the United States, which is a microcosm of the world, we did peak in 1970, and it is clear every year after that we have less and less oil, why wouldn't the United States be a microcosm of the world, and he predicted the world would be peaking about now, why wouldn't we have done something about that? Why have we continued to behave as if gas and oil and coal were forever, that they would never run out? What we want to do now is to rush out to our public lands to offshore, to ANWR, and to drill. I asked them, if you can drill ANWR tomorrow, what will you do the day after tomorrow? And there will be a day after tomorrow. 
   I think about that. I have 10 kids and 16 grandkids and 2 great-grandkids. They are going to be here the day after tomorrow. We are leaving them a huge debt. Check my voting record, it is not my fault. We are leaving them a huge debt, and I asked them, Wouldn't it be nice if we left them a little oil. And they smile, and the next thing they are asking, Would you vote to drill in ANWR. No, I won't. Or on our public lands or offshore until you commit to me that you will use every bit of energy you get from those sites to invest in alternative energy because we have now run out of surplus energy. If we had any surplus oil, it wouldn't be $115 a barrel today, would it. So I will vote to drill there when I have a commitment that we will use all of the energy we get there and invest it in the development of alternatives. 
   The next chart is a detailed chart of our production and decline. Here is what M. King Hubbert predicted of Texas and the rest of the United States. And then we have learned to get some gas from natural gas liquids, a huge find in Alaska, a big find in the Gulf of Mexico, just a blip in the slide down the other side of Hubbert's peak. 
   The next chart shows some projections of what we will find in the future. Although with really good techniques and a lot of energy, we have gone out there, a lot of incentives, we have looked for the last remaining oil deposits and we have found less and less and less as time goes on. What this curve does is smooth out the big bars we saw before. Here we are at this point. They were projecting how much more we were going to find. We don't have time, but there is a really interesting metamorphosis that took place here. 
   The USGS, in trying to predict how much more oil we would find, has several computer models. They put different data into those models, and they get different results out. They have run many simulations, and they put all of those simulations on a chart and they get the mean of the simulations. They think that they are putting in good data and so they should be getting out good data. They take the mean of those, and they say this is the most probable amount of oil we will find. 
   Somehow that ``F'' for frequency, maybe it was a bad font, but somehow it showed up as a ``P'' or probability when it got to EIA. And then they make some bizarre applications of statistics. 
   They say that the 50 percent probability, the green one here, which they say is the mean, and of course 50 percent probability is not a mean, it is 50 percent probability. They say the 50 percent probability is more likely than  the 95 percent probability. Of course that defies logic in that it obviously is not more probable because the actual data points have been following, as you expect they would follow, the 95 percent probability. 
   I will say again: These two agencies, the IEA and the EIA do a really good job of tracking what we produce and use. I would be careful about accepting their prognostications of what we are going to find. 
   The next chart is one from the first big study that I mentioned, one of the four that your government paid for and it is largely ignoring. This is called the Hirsch Report done by SAIC, a huge, international, very prestigious, scientific engineering organization. 
   I have highlighted this phrase because it is so shocking. ``The world has never faced a problem like this. There is no precedent in history to guide us.'' 
   We have never faced a problem like this. You cannot go back in history and find any problem that will help you decide how you are going to get through this. The world has never faced a problem like this. 
   The next chart. They say that the peaking of world oil production presents the United States and the world with an unprecedented risk management problem. They say that the economic, social and political cost will be unprecedented. Wow, strong words. The world has never faced a problem like this, unprecedented risk management problem. Nothing like it in history. Nothing to guide you. The economic, social and political cost will be unprecedented. 
   The next chart is a schematic. This shows what we have been talking about, a 2 percent rate of growth, doubles in 35 years. The yellow there is 35 years. I think we are about here. Notice the shortfall occurs a 
   little before peaking, although the IEA and the EIA both have oil peaking, so we may be about at that point. 
   Most people when they look at that chart say we have to fill that yellow space because we have to have all of the liquid fuels that we would like to use. I will submit, Mr. Speaker, that it is exceedingly unlikely that we will be able to fill that blank to make up for the deficit between what we would like to use and what will be available. Filling the gap, I think, is not feasible. And what Hyman Rickover cautioned 50 years ago, 51 years ago now, we should note today, and that is we need to plan in an orderly fashion to move from fossil fuels to sustainable renewables because geology will demand it. We will move when the oil is not there, when the gas is not there, and when the coal is not there. Then we will have moved to alternatives. Whether that is a bumpy ride or a really bumpy ride will depend on what we do now and in the immediate future. 
   The next chart is a really interesting one because it shows us again this rapidly accelerating use of oil, then the recession of the 1970s, and a lesser slope after that. This chart assumes that we may find as much more oil as all the recoverable oil we now know exists. Most experts believe that roughly, at the end of the day, there will have been roughly two trillion barrels of oil pumped. We have pumped about a trillion barrels now. Most experts believe we have another trillion barrels to pump. This assumes that we are going to have a total of three trillion barrels. 
   Now if we have one trillion barrels remaining of the two original, we have pumped one and if there is a total of three, that means that they are presuming that we are going to find another trillion barrels of oil. If we do that, by their own calculations it will simply move the peak out from around 2000 or a little after 2000 to 2016. That is not very far. That is the effect of exponential growth. 
   During the Carter years, every decade we used as much oil as had been used in all of previous history. That is a stunning statistic. Thank goodness for those oil price spike shocks and the efficiency that resulted from that or else we would be in a really troubled world today. 
   What that means is if you use as much each decade as you use in all of previous history, when you have used half of the world's oil, which is where we are, then you would have 10 years of oil remaining. We have slowed down so if you do those calculations, the 88 million barrels a day, a trillion barrels remaining, that comes out to roughly 30 years. It is not going to be 30 years of constant production and then fall off the cliff because it is going to be harder and harder to get, more and more expensive, and getting less and less each year no matter what we do. 
   The next chart is a quote, very recent quote, January 22 of this year, by the CEO of Shell Oil, Royal Dutch Shell. ``By the year 2100, the world's energy system will be radically different from today's. The world's current predicament limits our maneuvering room. We are experiencing a step change in the growth rate of energy demand and Shell estimates after 2015, supplies of easy-to-access oil and gas will no longer keep up with demand.'' That may have already happened, as we noted from that former chart and as we see with gas over $10 and oil over $115 a barrel. 
   ``As a result'' he says, ``society has no choice but to add other energy sources.'' 
   Have you noticed society doing that at any aggressive clip? 
   The next chart, and I want to spend some meaningful amount of time looking at what are those alternatives. We are very much like the young couple whose grandparents have died and left them a big inheritance. The young couple has now established a really lavish life style. They are living it up. Eighty-five percent of all the money they spend comes from their grandparents' inheritance--coal, petroleum, natural gas--and only 15 percent of it comes from their income. Now they look at how old they are, they look at their grandparents' inheritance, and see it is going to run out before they retire. They have to spend less or make more. That's exactly where we are. 
   Eighty-five percent of all of the energy we use is the equivalent of our grandparents' inheritance. We inherited it. It is there in the ground, coal, oil and gas. And only 15 percent of the energy we use is something else. 
   Now this 85 percent is going away. We have reached the maximum production, and if the world is going to follow the model of the United States, no matter what we do, the production in the world is going to be less and less, harder and harder to get, more and more expensive. That has happened in our country. And in spite of drilling more oil wells than all of the rest of the world together, and in spite of having the best oil people in all of the world, we have not been able to make M. King Hubbert out to be a liar because we still today, with all of that technology, with 530,000 producing oil wells, we still are producing only about half of the oil that we produced in 1970.     
   Well, what are the alternatives? What will we be using at the end of this magnificent age of oil? 
   And Hyman Rickover didn't know how long it would last. They were about 100 years into the age of oil. Oil had not peaked then. It wouldn't peak for another 50 years, 51 years or so, so he had no idea how long it lasted. But he said how long it lasted was important in only one regard; that the longer it lasted, the more time we would have to plan a rational transition from oil to other sustainable renewable sources of fuel. 
   Well, here we are today, and what have we done? 
   The President said in one of his State of the Union addresses that we are hooked on oil. We are indeed. And I think that rushing out there to drill in public lands, to drill in ANWR, to drill offshore is exactly the equivalent of giving a dope addict another fix. As the President says, we really, really do have to wean ourselves from these fossil fuels. 
   By the way, there are three groups out there that want to do this for very different reasons. One of those groups is the national security group that I mentioned that is really concerned that we have only 2 percent of the oil, and use 25 percent of the oil, and import almost two-thirds of what we use. Our second largest importer now is Saudi Arabia. It was Mexico. They've fallen back. That really places us in a very precarious position. 
   The President has indicated that we really must transition from these fossil fuels to renewables. What will they be? 
   And here we have a brief listing, and I think that this subtends about all of the possible renewables. By the way, we get more than the non fossil fuel energy nuclear power. 8 percent of the 15  percent is nuclear. We get about 20 percent of our electricity from nuclear. It's down just a little. Now 19 something, roughly 20. 
   The French get about 75, 80 percent. But we still produce more nuclear than France because we have a whole lot bigger economy than France has. We're the largest nuclear power producers in the world. That could and probably should grow. Only 7 percent in other renewables. 
   The things that I'm very fond of are solar and wind. I have a place off-grid, and I have solar panels and I have wind machines and batteries for storage, and so I'm a huge fan of solar and wind. 
   But these were 1 percent of 7 percent in 2000. They're really growing, growing maybe 30, 40 percent a year. That's huge growth. So they're four or five times bigger. .28 percent, big deal because this is only .07 percent. So these things that will be important sources of energy in the future are now very small, growing; rapidly, but still very small. 
   Wood, this is the paper industry and the timber industry wisely using what would otherwise be a waste product, and there's not a huge potential for growth there without doing what North Korea, has done, for instance. They're just cutting down their forests. 
   Waste energy, that's very popular. And there's a great facility up here in Northern Montgomery County. I've been by. I would be proud to have it by my church. It looks really nice. The waste comes in in big containers and in railroad cars and I don't even see it. And they handle it very well. I didn't even smell it when I was there. 
   But I want to caution that this huge waste stream is the result, largely the result of profligate use of fossil fuels. Look at it. Almost everything in that waste stream was the result of using oil, gas or coal. It's a really great idea now. Recycle what you can, burn what's left, better than burying it in the ground somewhere. But that's not a silver bullet, not a solution to our problem because in an energy-deficient world, this is really going to shrink because the energy just isn't going to be there to create all this waste. 
   Conventional hydro. Huge. We've tapped out on that in our country. We've probably dammed up some rivers we shouldn't have dammed up. But some people believe we could get as much from micro hydro. There's some really good small pelt wheels and turbines and so forth. 
   Alcohol fuel. 1 percent back then. Now, we've had a huge push for alcohol fuel. 
   There have been two big bubbles that have broken, two big hopes. One of them was the hydrogen economy. You don't hear very many people talking about it anymore. I think it's probably sunk in that hydrogen is not free for the having. There's no place you can go, like you can go for coal or gas or oil and drill a hole and get hydrogen. 
   You get hydrogen by using one energy source, using another energy source to create the hydrogen. You split water, or you use electricity, or you get it from natural gas. But you will always use more energy getting the hydrogen than you will get out of the hydrogen. That's the second law of thermodynamics. And if we can violate that law, why we can set aside the law of gravity, and then we won't have the kind of problems that we have today with energy, will we? That's an inviolate law that won't change. 
   So why are we talking about hydrogen if you will never get as much energy out of the hydrogen as it took to make the hydrogen? For two reasons. One, when you finally burn it, the product you get is the oxide of hydrogen. It's burned hydrogen. We call it water. When you look at water, it's burned hydrogen is what it is. And it's really clean, isn't it? 
   And the second thing is it's a great candidate for a fuel cell, which is probably at least two decades off. So you don't hear much talk about hydrogen. It may 1 day be an important part of our energy economy, but that day must await, I think, the development of the fuel cell because if you're simply going to put hydrogen in a reciprocating engine, why wouldn't you put the fuel from which you made the hydrogen in your reciprocating engine and save that fuel loss in the transition? 
   The second big bubble that broke was the corn ethanol bubble. And I really had high hopes for this before I did some back of the envelope computations, because I saw our farmers who were getting too little for their crops, huge energy represented in these crops, and I think they will make a meaningful contribution to our energy future. But not in the dimensions that were anticipated for corn ethanol. 
   The National Academy of Sciences, and this isn't Roscoe Bartlett, this is National Academy of Sciences, although my back of the envelope computations came to the same conclusion. The National Academy of Sciences says if we use all of our corn for ethanol, every bit of it, use all of it for ethanol, and discounted it for the fossil fuel input, which is huge, in fact, some people believe if you really cost account all the fossil fuel energy that goes into producing ethanol, more energy goes in than you get out of this. They were using 80 percent, which is probably not bad; that that would displace 2.4 percent of our gasoline. That's all of our corn, displace 2.4 percent of our gasoline. 
   They noted wryly that you could save as much gas if you tuned up your car and put air in the tires. And by the way, you would save half your gas if there was two people in every vehicle out there instead of one which is in most vehicles. You would save half your gas if your vehicle got 40 miles per gallon, rather than 20 miles per gallon, both of which are very doable with a little 
   planning and buying the right car, by the way. 
   I think was 2 or 3 days ago there was a major headline above the fold in the New York Times saying that Third World leaders were complaining to us that we were starving their people because the high price of corn incented our farmers to shift land from wheat and soybeans to corn. That drove up the price of wheat and soybeans. There have been some problems producing rice around the world and, anyway, these commodities tend to more together. So the four basic foods of the poorest people in the world, they said, have been driven up drastically, essentially doubled in price, because we're making corn ethanol. 
   Hyman Rickover, by the way, I don't have that quote here but please do a Google search for Rickover and energy speech, and it'll pop up. He cautioned that you probably shouldn't be eating your food. 51 years ago. Maybe we should have listened. 
   Geothermal. That's true geothermal. That's not hooking your heat pump to ground temperature, which is a really good idea. If you think about what you're asking that heat pump to do this winter, if it wasn't hooked to ground temperature, you were asking it to cool the outside air, which might have been 10 degrees, so that it could warm up your air in the house. That's what you're doing. 
   How much easier its job would have been if it had been looking at 56 degrees, rather than 10 degrees, because 56 degrees is what ground temperature in here, it's mean annual temperature, it's what the water is that comes out of the wells. 
   Now, this summer, if you have an air conditioner in your window, and it's not a heat pump tied to the ground, what that air conditioner is going to be trying to do is heating up the 100 degree air outside so it can cool your house inside. Pretty tough job. 
   But if you had tied that air conditioner to ground temperature, now it's looking at 56, which looks really cool, compared to 100, doesn't it? 
   I didn't understand this phenomenon as a 7-year old, and I grew up without electricity and an inside toilet on a farm, and we kept our food in a spring house. And I thought there was something magic in that spring house and I didn't understand it, but I knew it was magic because I went in that spring house in the summertime and it was so cool. And I went in that spring house in the winter time and it was so warm. 
   Of course, when it was 100 outside, that spring house, which was maybe 65, that was Pennsylvania, it'd be a little colder than here, maybe 60 or so, that really seemed cool. In the winter time 60 seemed really warm compared to the zero or 10 degrees outside, so I thought there was something magic in that spring house. 
   The next chart takes a little deeper look at some of our alternatives. Now, we do have some finite resources, and we can exploit those, and we will exploit those, and we should exploit those, but they are finite. Some of them are huge.  
   The first of these are the tar sands in Canada. They are huge. There's as much potential oil in those tar sands as there is in all of the known reserves of oil in the world, more actually. 
   So why aren't we euphoric over that? It's because it's very difficult to get. 
   The Canadians are now using natural gas, which will run out. They're pumping water, which will run out. They're creating a huge tailings pond, which is kind of an environmental disaster, and they're producing a million barrels a day. That's a lot. It's a little over 1 percent of what the world uses. We use about 88 million barrels a day. 
   But they know it's not sustainable because they're going to run out of gas, they're going to run out of water, and what they're now exploiting is kind of on the surface, and it will soon kind of duck under an overlay, so they have to develop it in situ, and they aren't quite sure how to do that. 
   So there's a huge amount of energy there, potential. But there's also a huge amount of potential energy in the tides. The moon lifts the whole darned ocean 2 or 3 feet. That's a huge amount of energy. 
   But, you know, getting that in your gas tank is quite another thing. Energy, to be effective, must be concentrated, and in the tides it certainly isn't concentrated. 
   Now in our west we have oil shales, and they are really huge, maybe even bigger than the tar sands in Canada. Nobody yet is commercially exploiting those. There are some vigorous attempts today, and there may be some exploitation of those. There's at least a trillion barrels, maybe a trillion and a half, two trillion barrels there. And different experts differ on how much of that may be recoverable. But, again, because it's there, it's not in your gas tank, we will recover some of that. 
   As oil goes up, Goldman Sachs says by the end of the year it could be 150, $200 a barrel. Who knows? 
   The more expensive oil gets, the more sources there are of oil because you can now use oil which would have been prohibitive in cost with oil at lower prices. 
   Coal. I know a lot of people who say, don't worry about the future; we have sure supplies of coal. We have 250 years of coal, at current usage rates. 
   Be very careful, calibrate what people say when they tell you at current use rates. Now, if we had 250 years of coal, and we don't, I'll come to that in a moment. But if we had 250 years of coal at current use rates, if you increase that use only 2 percent, that's not much, we will have to do more than that. But if you increase it only 2 percent it shrinks to 85 years. The power of compound growth. 
   And if you use some of the energy coal to make it a gas or a liquid, because you can't put coal in the trunk of your car and go down the road, it now shrinks to 50 years. 
   And when one other observation. We have no alternative but to share it with the world. Let me tell you why. Because if we get oil from coal, we're then not buying some Saudi oil, which somebody else can buy, so it has the exact effect of sharing it with the world. That is inescapable. There is no way to avoid that. 
   So now that 50 years, since we use a fourth of the world's supply, and that 250 years was at current use rates for us in this country, not the whole world, now that 50 years, divided by four, shrinks to 12 1/2 years. So if we had 250 years of coal and we increased its use only 2 percent, converted it to a gas or a liquid and shared it with the world, and we have no alternative, it'll last 12 1/2 years.     
   But the National Academy of Sciences says we haven't looked at the coal reserves since the 1970s and they believe there is more like 100 years at current use rates. So that 85 years and 50 years now shrink to something roughly half of that, and the 12 1/2 years sharing it with the world may shrink to something like 5 or 6 or so years sharing it with the world. 
   The coal is there. It is huge. But our use of energy in the world is huge, huge. Eighty-eight million barrels a day, each barrel having the energy equivalent of 12 people working all year. That's an incredible amount of energy. Just look at the road you travel home on tonight and see the cars there, and that's replicated 1,000 times in our country and thousands of times around the world. 
   I was in Beijing a little while ago and they banned bicycles in parts of Beijing. There is no room for them. So many cars on the road. I was late to an appointment in Beijing because of traffic jams, late to an appointment in Moscow because of traffic jams there. I was there in 1973, and the streets were almost devoid of cars. You saw a military vehicle now and then. That's all you saw then. A whole different world now. 
   Well, there's nuclear, and we now get 8 percent of our total energy, almost 20 percent of our electricity from nuclear that could and probably should grow. But the nuclear we're now using, which is whitewater reactors using fissionable uranium is limited because there is a limited supply of fissionable uranium. That won't last forever. 
   There are breeder reactors. Nobody uses them for energy production. The breeder reactors, as the name implies, make more fuel than they use. You buy some problems with those, like you have to enrich the fuel and it's weapon's grade stuff and you have to move it around and there's challenges for terrorists getting it and such; but you get energy from it. 
   Then there is the only silver bullet that gets us home free, and that is nuclear fusion. I happily vote for the roughly $250 million a year that we spend developing that. We're joining with other countries in helping to develop that. I think the probability is low that we will ever be able to exploit that on a commercial scale. 
   Now, if you're sanguine believing that we're going to solve our energy problem with nuclear fusion, you probably think you can solve your personal financial problems by winning the lottery. You might do it. But the odds of you solving your personal financial problems by winning the lottery are about the same as our solving our energy problems by using fusion. 
   But because it is such an incredible source, the only thing that gets us home free, I happily support, and I would support more money if we had more skilled people out there who could be looking at this. 
   The next big bubble that we're talking about now is biomass, and I would caution, how much more energy you think that we can get from wastelands out there that aren't good enough to grow corn and soybeans on, that we could get from all of our corn and all of our soybeans? 
   I would like to take the last couple of minutes to note a couple of things that we have been doing. 
   I have a bill, and this is going to give a prize to the first farm that can be totally energy independent. If our farms can't be energy independent, we're really in trouble, aren't we? 
   The next chart is a bill, the Drive Act. That will encourage the development of vehicles that are more efficient that are flex-fuel. You can use any fuel. Not corn ethanol, but any of the alternative fuels. 
   I would just like to note that I find this whole challenge exhilarating. There is no exhilaration like meeting and overcoming a huge challenge. I spent some time going over these potential alternatives. I just want realistic expectations. There's no silver bullet out there. It's going to be a little of this and a little of that. And America is very good at that. 
   What we need in this country is a program that has a total commitment of World War II. I lived through that war. I'll be 82 years old on my next birthday, about 6 weeks from now. I lived through that war. 
   We need the technology commitment that we had when we put a man on the moon, that focus, and we need the urgency of the Manhattan Project. And I think that Americans are up to this challenge. I think we can lead the world in developing the technology to take us away from the fossil fuels to these other sources of energy. 
   The next chart I have already gone through. I will indulge for just a moment with the last chart. This is a great one to end on. 
   Mr. Speaker, this is a chart that shows how satisfied you are with life and how much energy you use. There are 22 countries, some of them using half the energy that we use that are happier with life than we are. There's lots and lots of opportunities out there to live really well using less energy,  and that's our challenge, and with proper leadership, America is up to it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (THE BIPARTISAN CAMPAIGN REFORM ACT AND PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I want to spend the first few minutes this evening talking about oral arguments that were recently made before the Supreme Court. It was on the Wisconsin Right to Life, Incorporated, versus the Federal Election Commission. 
   Now, it is not clear from that title what we are talking about. What we are really talking about is a test of the constitutionality of a clause in the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act that prohibits any issue advocacy advertising, electioneering they call it, 30 days before a primary and 60 days before a general election. 
   Now, in the State of Maryland in a nonpresidential year, our primary is in September, and it is, as a matter of fact, less than 60 days before the general in November. So we are prohibited from issue advocacy ads 30 days before the primary, which are added immediately to the 60 days before the general. So for 90 days, 3 months, before the election, we cannot communicate with our constituents. 
   I would submit, Mr. Speaker, that few people are seriously considering the next election 90 days before it occurs. So for all practical purposes, we in Maryland, and many other States like us that have primaries close to the general election, are almost completely prohibited from communicating with our constituents through issue advocacy ads. 
   This is political speech, and what this Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act does is to deny political speech 30 days before a primary and 60 days before a general election. 
   I think to put this in context to see how really important this is, we need to go back to the founding of our country and to understand why our Founding Fathers came here. 
   Most of them came for one or both of two reasons to escape tyrannies in the country that they lived in. One of these was the tyranny of the church. In the British Isles it was the Anglican Church, and on the continent it was the Roman Church. And in most of the country there was a state church. And these state churches, the Anglican Church in England and the Roman Church on the continent, could and did oppress other religions. So our Founding Fathers came here to escape that tyranny. 
   They also came here to escape the tyranny of the crown. And it is incredible to us. We can't understand it because we live in a whole different culture. But almost every country from which our Founding Fathers came had a king or an emperor which claimed and was granted divine rights. What that said was that the rights came from God to the king and the king would give what rights he wished to his people. Some magnanimous rulers gave considerable rights to their people; others gave very few. So our Founding Fathers came here intent on escaping those two tyrannies. 
   So it is no accident that after writing the Constitution in which it was very clear that this was to be a government of the people, by the people, and for the people, as Abraham Lincoln said four score and seven years later, and that the government was to reflect the wishes of the people, that the people through collective government would govern themselves. That was really quite implicit in the Constitution because article I, section 8 of the Constitution gave very few rights to the Federal Government. 
   But the ink was hardly dry on the Constitution before they wondered if people would really understand that what they wanted was a very limited Federal Government and that they wanted most of the rights to belong to the people. So it is no accident, I think, that in that first amendment, which they wrote, that they addressed both of these tyrannies. From the very beginning, they wanted to make it crystal clear that we were to have freedom of religion, and they say it very simply, that they wanted to avoid what they came from, what they came here to escape, and that was an established religion, a religion established by the government. So they said very simply ``Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion.'' 
   I don't know why we have trouble understanding that, Mr. Speaker. It is just plain English. It has nothing to do with a wall of separation between Church and State. Indeed, our Founding Fathers were deeply religious people, and they believed that we should have religious people running our government. President Adams said that our Constitution was written for a religious people which serves the purposes of no other. So it is no surprise that in the first amendment they addressed both tyrannies actually. ``Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion.'' Don't establish any State religion. And, furthermore, let everybody worship freely. They said ``or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.'' 
   And then they addressed the tyranny of the crown. And I have here an article that was written by James Bopp, who was the primary person to argue this case before the Supreme Court. He said that the American government was to be an act of self government by the people and the first amendment was to ensure the people's participation in their own government by protecting the four indispensable democratic freedoms of speech, press, assembly, and petitioning the government. Thus the first amendment was intended to deprive the government of the power to silence criticism of official actions, which is precisely what this well-intentioned but, unfortunately, otherwise directed Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act does. It limits the criticism of the people who are making our laws, of anybody in the government or anybody running for government. 
   The first amendment says it this way: ``or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press, or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, this is a very important case before the Supreme Court. It is just not an issue of political speech, which, by the way, was the speech that our Founding Fathers most wanted to protect. And how ironic that a law that  concerns elections is a law which strikes down the very speech freedom that our Founding Fathers most wanted to protect. 
   But this is significant beyond that, Mr. Speaker, because if our Congress can deny this right to the American people, what else can it deny? We are a great, free country, 1 person out of 22 in the world and we have a fourth of all the good things in the world. How did we get here? I think it is very instructive to ask that question and to have it answered for my satisfaction. You may come to different conclusions. But I think there are two major reasons that we are this very unique country, this 1 person out of 22 in the world, less than 5 percent of the world's population that has a fourth of all the good things in the world. And I think that both of the reasons that we are this great, free country are addressed in this first amendment. Our Founding Fathers believed that God sat with them at the table when they wrote the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution and the amendments, and I think they were right. And I think we put at risk who we are when we deny the religious role in the establishment of our country.     
   And the 10 commandments are coming down from the court house walls. Nativity scenes appear less and less frequently in public places. And we are now, of all things, going to debate whether it's okay to say ``under God'' in the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag. Mr. Speaker, I reread the Declaration of Independence recently, I think it is well to read that every so often, and I noted that God is mentioned four or five times there. I wonder if our courts might declare the Declaration of Independence unconstitutional. 
   There is, on a lighter side, a really great clause here. I have no idea what the king had done, but I think that there could be no better description of our regulatory agencies, and I don't know how our Founding Fathers could have been so prophetic in describing our regulatory agencies; this is what they said, Mr. Speaker. ``He has erected a multitude of new offices and sent hither swarms of officers to harass our people and eat out their substance.'' They had a way with words, didn't they? And I think that there could be no more concise definition of the unfortunate frequent application of our regulatory agencies and their limitation of the rights of the American people. 
   Well, I would encourage Americans everywhere to listen, to watch for the report of the Supreme Court. They promise to hand down their decision sometime before the end of the court's term in June. This is a very important decision, it goes beyond just this case of ``Washington right to life.'' Just what was that case? The right to life people were sending out educational information. And unfortunately, one of the Senators was running, and since always right to life, abortion and so forth are issues in political campaigns, the FEC decided that this was prohibited advertising, although I don't think that either Senator was even mentioned in the advertising. And so the right to life committee there, I think very appropriately, has decided to make this a Supreme Court test. 
   Indeed, when this law was passed many people thought that it was unconstitutional. The President thought that it was unconstitutional and said so, that the court would strike down this provision. Indeed, I think those who wrote the law thought that this provision was probably unconstitutional because they put into the law language that said that if any one part of the law was struck down, that the rest of the law was still applicable. That appears in very little of our legislation. It's an indication, I think, that they felt that this part of their legislation was on pretty shaky constitutional ground. 
   So I would encourage you to watch this. This is a very important decision, not just for this case, but I think that that will be read very broadly as an indication of how much power does the Congress have to infringe on our constitutionally--our God-given liberties, by the way. These came from God, they didn't come from our Constitution. All the Constitution seeks to do is to make sure that the government can't take them away from us. 
   I want to spend our remaining time, Mr. Speaker, talking about a subject that was highlighted today in the ACORE, the American Council on Renewable Energy, ``The Outlook on Renewable Energy in America.'' And there are several recent articles that deal with this. There was a very interesting exchange between T. Boone Pickens and Steve Forbes. T. Boone Pickens believes that the world has reached its maximum capacity for producing oil; that try as hard as we wish, the oil-producing countries will not be able to increase their production of oil, and this phenomenon is called peak oil. And T. Boone Pickens said several weeks ago that he believes the world has reached peak oil. Steve Forbes took exception with that and indicated that he believed that the marketplace could take care of this. And if it didn't find more oil, it would find alternatives to oil so there would be no decrement in our growth when we're growing at roughly 2 percent a year in energy use. By the way, that 2 percent a year may not sound like much, but that doubles in 35 years, it's 4 times bigger in 70 years and it's 8 times bigger in 105 years. Now the world will still be here in 105 years, and my great, great grandchildren will still be alive in 105 years. I don't have the foggiest notion where we would get 8 times the energy compared to the energy that we are using now. So clearly that is not a world we should look forward to. T. Boone Pickens had an interesting discussion with Steve Forbes; and if you use those two names on a Google search, you will pull up their conversation. 
   There are many people who seem to worship the marketplace, they believe that it is both omniscient and omnipotent, it is all wise and all powerful. I point out to them that there are some things that even God can't do; God can't make a square circle, and the marketplace can't make oil where there is not oil. And the marketplace cannot provide alternatives to oil faster than technology will permit us to do that. 
   There is an interesting article, and this one appeared on March 25 in the Washington Post. This was really an interesting article. It says, ``Corn Can't Solve Our Problem.'' Corn, of course, is the source of ethanol, which is an alternative renewable energy. And the article pointed out that if we took all of our corn ground, every bit of it, no tortillas for Mexicans and no food for pigs and cows and chickens and no cornbread for us, all of our corn is made into ethanol, that if you discounted that for the fossil fuel input, which they said was 80 percent. By the way, there are some scientists who believe that we use more energy in producing ethanol from corn than we get out of the ethanol. I generally use 75 percent in my discussions, this article said 80 percent. But if you discount the ethanol you produce by 80 percent, it would displace 2.4 percent of our gasoline. Now, that's making all of our corn into ethanol. It would displace, after you discounted it for the fossil fuel input, because you are just burning fossil fuel in another form if you don't do that, if you discounted for fossil fuel input, it would displace 2.4 percent of our gasoline. 
   The authors of the article pointed out something 
   very interesting. They said if you are really interested in saving gasoline, you could save that much gasoline by tuning up your car and putting enough air in your tires. And I heard nobody who disputed that. So if we use all of our corn for ethanol, you could save as much gasoline by simply tuning up your car and putting air in the tires. 
   Then on April 5 there was another very interesting article that related to these renewables, and this was an article in the Wall Street Journal, upper right, very important, above the fold. It says, ``A Dying Giant: Mexico Tries to Save a Big Fading Oil Field.'' ``Canterell's Drop Off Faster Than Expected, Turning to Technology'' is the title of the article. Canterell was the name of a Mexican fisherman who kept getting his nets fouled in crude oil, and he would take these nets to Pemex, and he knew who was at fault because there was only one oil company in Mexico, and said look what you did to my net, and they would give him a new net. And he came in so frequently they finally said, gee, we didn't think we were spilling that much oil. And they asked  him, where is this oil coming from? And he says, come and I will show you. And so he took them and showed them oil kind of bubbling up out of the ocean and they drilled there. This was named after him, the Canterell oil field. It was the second largest one in the world. The largest one in the world is the Ghawar oil field, the granddaddy of all oil fields, producing still, down from what it was at its peak, still producing 5 million barrels of oil a day. Canterell, until 2 years ago, produced 2 million barrels a day. In the last 2 years, it has dropped off 20 percent in production. Thus, the article, upper right in the Wall Street Journal on April 5. 
   Obviously, if we don't have oil, we're going to have to find alternatives, so this relates to the subject of this conference today on alternative renewable energy. 
   And then May 1, there is an article about Hugo Ch&#225;vez ``aims to weaken the U.S.,'' it says, ``China to get preference with oil from projects now under state control.'' And he was celebrating his nationalization of the fields of four companies. I think that maybe all the oil now in Venezuela has been nationalized. 
   In addition to nationalized oil, he made the point that he was going to make China, with whom he is partnering, a preferred customer for his oil, and it would be shipped there rather than the United States. And his aim is to hurt the United States. 
   This pending critical shortage of oil has resulted in a common cause by five groups in this country. The ``peak oil'' group is just one of the groups that have common cause. And I wanted to spend just a moment talking about these people of common cause, all of whom want to move from fossil fuels to renewables, for different reasons. 
   The first group are those who are concerned about national security. A letter was sent by Boyden Gray and 29 others, Jim Woolsey, a number of retired four star admirals and generals to the President, this was a couple of years ago, saying, ``Mr. President, the fact that we have less than 2 percent of oil in the world and we use 25 percent of the world's oil and we import about two-thirds of what we use is a totally unacceptable national security risk. We really have to do something about that.'' 
   The next slide is on this same subject, and this is a statement by Condoleezza Rice, a very interesting statement. ``We do have to do something about the energy problem. I can tell you that nothing has really taken me aback more as Secretary of State than the way that the politics of energy is--I will use the word `warping' diplomacy around the world.'' Concerned About National Security. So this is one of the groups that has common cause, Concerned About National Security. 
   The next chart shows a second group. This group has a lot of visibility now. Al Gore came here to the House 2 or 3 weeks ago and testified before our Science Committee. This is the group that believes that greenhouse emissions, primarily CO  
   2 produced by burning these fossil fuels which were sequestered away, some believe as much as millions of years ago when the sun shone on subtropical seas, as in the North Sea, in ANWR, in Prudo Bay, very different world then. And the algae-like organisms grew and dropped to the bottom and silt came in and the tectonic plates opened up, this is the conjecture of how we got our gas and oil. And this was moved down to a depth where there was the right temperature, the right pressure with a rock dome over the top to contain the gas, which is why you don't find gas and oil everywhere; that with time this then was converted into gas and the volatiles, of course, were oil. Well, these are the climate change, the global warming people who really want to move from fossil fuels to the renewables. Because when you are using a renewable, you release the same amount of CO 
   2 perhaps, but that's the CO 
   2 that was sequestered in the spring. If you're burning this in the fall, you are releasing the CO 
   2 that was sequestered in the spring and summer while the plant was growing, so there is no net increase, it's simply recycling of the CO 
   2. So this is the second group that has common cause. 
   A third group that has common cause are the peak oil people. And this is a classic name here, Hubbert. In 1956, M. King Hubbert predicted that the United States would peak in oil production in 1970. That was considered to be totally ridiculous. The United States was then king of oil, producing I think more oil than any other, and exporting a lot of oil at that time. And just as he predicted, in 1970 we peaked in oil production, and we've been going downhill ever since. 
   The red curve here, by the way, is the Soviet Union. They kind of fell apart when they came unglued and now they are going to have a second small peak. And a little later we will have a chart which shows you relatively the amount of oil which each of the major oil-producing countries in the world has. 
   We have two bills, and my next slide is one of those. This is a bill which our office has filed. This is to support Federal research development demonstration and commercial application activities to enable the development of self-powered farms. Our rationale is that if a farm can't be energy independent, we face a very grim future.     
   This is because as fossil fuels become less and less available, we have to move more and more to alternative fuels. Many of those are going to be produced on the farm, so if the farm can't be energy independent, we are going to have some tough times ahead. So this bill challenges our American farmers to become independent, and there will be prizes for doing that. 
   The second one is a broad act, America's Energy for America's Future, the bipartisan DRIVE Act as it is called, the acronym, Dependence Reduction Through Innovation in Vehicles and Energy Act, H.R. 60. So there are a number of bills before Congress. These are two important ones. 
   What I want to do now is to go through three reports that we have had, the first one in February of 2005, the second one in September of 2005 and the third one just released in February of 2007. These reports all say, and I have a few slides from each of these so you can see, Mr. Speaker, that they were delivering the same message to the American people. Paraphrasing what they said, each of these studies concluded that peaking of oil is imminent, if not present, with potentially devastating consequences. 
   Let's look at the first slide. This is from the Hirsch Report. The first of these reports, February of 2005, is the Peaking of Oil Production: Impacts, Mitigation and Risk Management. This is by the very big, prestigious SAIC, Science Applications International Corporation, and Robert Hirsch was the project leader, so this is frequently referred to as the Hirsch Report. 
   These are some quotes from that report. They said that ``the peaking of world oil production presents the United States especially and the world generally with an unprecedented risk management problem.'' Unprecedented. That ``the economic, social and political costs will be unprecedented.'' 
   Another authority in this area, Kenneth Deffeyes, says that ``the least bad outcome of oil peaking will be a deep worldwide recession that may make the thirties look like good times.'' Then he goes on to say, ``If you don't like that, try the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse: War, famine, pestilence and death.'' 
   A second chart here from the Hirsch Report, and I will just read the highlighted part here, ``oil peaking presents a unique challenge,'' they say. And then they make the statement ``the world has never faced a problem like this.'' There is no precedent in history to guide us. Unprecedented. ``The world has never faced a problem like this.'' 
   The next chart is another quote from the Hirsch Report. ``We cannot conceive of any affordable government-sponsored crash program to accelerate normal replacement schedules.'' 
   What they are talking about, any program that would provide energy from other sources to make up for the energy that won't be there once we have reached peak oil production, and the world's demand for energy keeps going up at about 2 percent, doubles in 35 years, four times bigger in 70 years. 
   The next chart shows us we are not going to drill our way out of this. This is a very interesting chart. When the Reagan Administration came in, we knew that M. King Hubbert was right. We were already 10 years down the other side in 1980, it peaked in 1970. Ten  years down the other side of Hubbert's Peak, and we knew something was wrong. 
   What the administration proposed, and this was my second favorite president, by the way, but he was wrong in this. What the administration proposed was to incent the American oil producers to go out and drill for oil. So we gave them some tax incentives. This is what the drilling was, and, boy, did they drill. But notice, the more they drilled, the less oil they got, because we went from positive, producing a bit more than we needed, to negative, not producing as much. If the oil is not there, drilling won't find it. 
   By the way, we really drill for oil in our country. We have drilled more wells in our country than all the rest of the world put together. In spite of drilling all those oil wells, currently I think 530,000 operating wells, 4,000 wells in the Gulf of Mexico, more than four times as many as all the wells in Saudi Arabia, in spite of that, we have not reversed the prediction of M. King Hubbert that our country would peak in 1970, and then it was down, down, down. 
   The next chart is a schematic which I think depicts the situation and where we are. This is a 2 percent growth here. By the way, you can make this very steep, we simply compress the abscissa, or make it very shallow, this has a long scale on the abscissa. But it doubles in 35 years. This has been following a roughly 2 percent increase in use. Obviously, up until today we have been able to produce as much oil as we are using. It costs more because there are some tentative shortages. That is why the price of oil has gone up. 
   So once we get near the peak and the demand keeps going up and the production is leveling off, that yellow area represents a gap between the amount of oil which is available, the green part of the curve, and the amount of oil we would like to use, which is this ever-increasing 2 percent growth rate. 
   Many people believe that what we ought to do is to fill that gap. I don't think, Mr. Speaker, we can fill the gap, and I don't think it would be productive to try to fill the gap, because there is only so many options out there for filling the gap. 
   I have 10 children, 15 grandchildren, and 2 great grandchildren. Wouldn't it be nice if I left them a little energy? Which is why I don't vote to drill in ANWR and I don't vote to drill offshore until they convince me that the energy they get from those projects is going to be invested in alternatives. Because we have known for 27 years, since 1980, we have known that M. King Hubbert was right about the United States. We peaked in 1970. Down, down, down since then. He predicted that the world would be peaking about now. 
   I ask you, Mr. Speaker, if he was right about the United States, which is clearly a microcosm of the world, why shouldn't he be right about the world and why shouldn't we be doing something about that? 
   Well, in their report, I think unwisely, the Hirsch Report looked at ways of filling the gap. The next chart shows a stylized approach at filling the gap. 
   What it shows is when you decide to start doing these things, you won't get anything for quite a while. We have, what, about 3 1/2 years before you get anything. So you have to anticipate the need before you start. 
   Notice that enhanced oil recovery, coal to liquid, heavy oil, gas to liquid, these are all finite resources. They won't last all that long. The only renewable one, the only one that will continue there is efficient vehicles. So they now are trying to fill the gap with clearly finite resources. There is only so much oil. If you get it there, it won't be there later. There is only so much coal. If you liquify it now, you won't liquify it tomorrow. There is only so much heavy oil. If you use it now, you won't be using it later. 
   The second chart from the Hirsch Report shows something very interesting, and we don't have time this evening to look at all of the information on this chart. But they are making an assumption here, which this is repeated from the Energy Information Agency, this is not what the Hirsch Report is predicting, by the way. They are repeating information from the Energy Information Agency. And somehow the Energy Information Agency, which stands not quite alone, but near live alone in this view, believes that we will find as much more oil as all the oil that now exists which is recoverable. 
   If we find that much oil, it will simply push peaking out to 2016. This chart was in 2000, and if we didn't find any more oil, it was going to peak then and start down, which is about what M. King Hubbert had predicted. 
   By the way, conventional oil probably peaked about then, but we are now getting a lot of oil from things like the Canadian tar sands, the heavy oils, the heavy sour oils and so forth. So we are now getting a fair amount of oil from what is called unconventional oil sources. But the conventional oil probably has already peaked. 
   They show another very interesting thing here, that if you use enhanced oil recovery and get it more quickly, you may move the peak out, what, about 20 years. But notice what happens after that. You can't pump it later if you pumped it now, and look how it falls off after they have used enhanced oil recovery to get it sooner. 
   The next chart is a very interesting one. This is projections by the Energy Information Agency. There is a lot we could talk about on these charts, because they are using data from the USGS and the USGS was using a frequency thing, which somehow gets translated to P here. I guess if you don't write clearly, F can look like a P. I have no idea how they got from frequency to P. 
   They say that we have three possibilities for the amount of oil that we are going to find in the future. The P is for probability. They say that there is the 95 percent probability. They say the mean is the 50 percent probability, if in fact it is probability. Obviously if it is 95 percent probable, it is a whole lot more probable than 50 percent probable. But they somehow take these frequency figures that USGS used, and what they did with frequency was simply make a lot of assumptions and they ran models from these assumptions and they ran these things many times and they got different numbers. So the frequency indicates the number of times that they predicted that quantity of oil. So this has to do only with their simulations and not with reality in the field. 
   But somehow Energy Information Agency translated the F to P and to 95 percent probability, 50 percent probability, which they said was the mean. Now, if it is a frequency thing, the 50 percent thing could be the mean, but in probabilities it doesn't make any sense. 
   They were predicting in, what, a little bit before 2000, that if it followed the 95 percent probability, you would get that much oil. If you followed the 50 percent probability, it would follow this line, which they said was the most probable. And the 5 percent probability would follow this line. 
   What they didn't do, of course, was to include the other half. When you see the path of a hurricane it is a pretty narrow for today. Tomorrow it will be uncertain, because we are uncertain about it. The 50 percent has another line which goes down here and the 5 percent another line that goes down here. Really a big funnel. If you are only 5 percent certain what the future is going to be, obviously it is a big range that you are looking at. 
   But look at what the actual data points follow. The actual data points follow, as you would expect them to, follow the 95 percent probability, because that is what 95 percent probability means. It is more probable than 50 percent probability. 
   The next chart shows, and this again is from the Hirsch Report, we are going to go over two more of these reports quickly. This is the Hirsch Report. They here have listed the projections of some of the world's experts on when we would reach peak oil. 
   Notice this first group, 2007, 2009, 2007, 2009, 2010, 2010, then 2010 to 2020, and then a couple of them, one no visible peak and then CERA and Shell say it would be after 2020 or 2025 or after. 
   The next chart shows a very interesting chart produced by Cambridge Research Associates. This is the CERA, Cambridge Energy Research Associates. They produced this chart to try to convince the reader that they shouldn't have any confidence in the predictions of M. King Hubbert. Let's look at this. 
   The total U.S. production is the red. The green is the actual lower 48, which, by the way, is what M. King Hubbert  predicted. He didn't have in his prediction any oil from Alaska or any oil from the Gulf of Mexico. He was looking just at the lower 48. And the yellow ones here are Hubbert's lower 48 prediction. 
   He said that it would follow a curve like this, and the lower 48 actually followed a curve as shown by the green squares there, and CERA says that proves that M. King Hubbert was wrong and you shouldn't have any confidence in it. I think the average person looking at that says, gee, those green ones are pretty darn close to the yellow ones and he may a pretty good prediction, didn't he? 
   Now why did the red ones deviate from it? That is because we found a bunch of oil in Prudo Bay. A fourth of our total oil production came from Prudo Bay. So there was a little kick here in it. But notice, down, down, down after that. There was just a blip in the slide down the other side of Hubbert's Peak produced by this huge oil find in Prudo Bay from which a fourth of our oil has come from the last number of years. And you can't even see there the contribution of that fabled oil discovery in the Gulf of Mexico which is now being pumped by about 4,000 wells. 
   The next chart is a chart by CERA, and they put this in an article in which they said that this whole peak oil notion was a farce and them are debunking it. But, boy, when I looked at that chart, it looks like it has a peak to me. It goes up and it goes down. And they said it is going to be an undulating plateau.     
   By the way, they now are predicting, using the USGS figures, that we are going to find as much oil as all the oil that exists which is recoverable in the world. 
   Leherrere says that this is absolutely implausible considering all the advances we have had in discovery of oil, computer modeling and 3-D seismic and so forth. 
   If we don't find that extra oil, and you can make up your mind whether you think we are going to find it or not, we would have been peaking about here. Boy, that is about now, isn't it. 
   If we find much more oil, we will be peaking later. They have an enormous amount of oil from unconventional there. Maybe, maybe not. We are getting a million barrels a day from the Canadian tar sands. That is a part of the 84-85 million barrels a day that we are burning, a little more than 1 percent. And that is not sustainable because they are using huge amounts of energy from natural gas which will run out. The vein will shortly be ducking under a big overlay so they will have to develop it in situ rather than shovel it out with a shovel that shovels 100 tons, they dump it in a truck that holds 400 tons, and they take it and cook it to get this real heavy, stiff oil out. When it flows, they then mix it with a volatile so it will keep flowing in the pipelines. They know it is not sustainable, and they are going to run out of natural gas. They are thinking about building a nuclear power plant; and, furthermore, shortly they will need to develop in situ and they have no idea how to do that. 
   Now we are going to look at some charts from the second study. All three of these studies are saying essentially the same thing: The peaking is either present or imminent with potentially devastating consequences if we don't do something about it. 
   The question everybody needs to be asking is why aren't we doing anything meaningful about this? We are barely nibbling at the margins of the problem, and this is a huge problem. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - January 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, last evening we were here just about this time talking about this same subject, the subject we have been talking about for the last hour. We had been discussing the phenomenon known as peak oil. That is the term given to a prediction that a geologist made, M. King Hubbert, working for the Shell Oil Company in 1956. He gave a speech in San Antonio, Texas, which I believe within a decade will be recognized as the most significant, most important speech given in the last century. 
   What he predicted was that the United States, which at that time was king of oil, we were producing more oil than any other country. We were using more oil than any other country, and we were exporting more oil than any other country. M. King Hubbert had the audacity in San Antonio, Texas, in 1956 to predict that in just a bit less than a decade-and-a-half, by about 1970, he said that the United States would reach its maximum oil production, and after that, inevitably, no matter what we did, oil production would tail off. 
   That prediction came true. Surprisingly, in 1970, some may say 1971, we peaked in oil production. In 1969, using this same analysis technique, he predicted that the world would be peaking in oil production about now. So last night we had come in our discussion to the point that we were looking at the potential for the alternatives that we and the world would need to turn to as we slide down the other side of what is referred to as Hubbert's peak. We noted that there were some finite resources, some nuclear resources and then the true renewables. 
   There are three justifications one might use for moving to alternatives. One is peak oil, and we will transition from fossil fuels to alternatives. Oil, gas and coal obviously will not last forever, and as the earth at some point runs down the other side of what we call Hubbert's peak and there is not enough oil, gas and coal to meet our  energy needs in the world, we will transition to alternatives. The only question is whether we do that on a time scale that we control so that it is a pretty easy ride, or whether we do it as dictated by geology, where it may be a very difficult ride. 
   Two other reasons for moving to alternatives. One is our dependence on foreign oil. Today, we have only about 2 percent of the known reserves of the oil in our country. We use about one-fourth of all the oil in the world, and we import about two-thirds of what we use. Obviously, if M. King Hubbert was right about the world, and there is every reason to believe he will be right about the world, we will need to transition to alternatives. 
   From a national security perspective, we ought to have been doing this a long while ago. A couple of years ago, 30 prominent Americans, Jim Woolsey, Boyden Gray, McFarland and 27 others, wrote a letter to the President saying, Mr. President, and they used the statistics I just used, the fact that the United States has only 2 percent of the known reserves and uses 25 percent of the world's oil and imports almost two-thirds of what we use is a totally unacceptable national security risk. Mr. President, we really need to do something about that. So even if you think that there is a whole lot of oil and gas out there, you still may be very incentivized to look for alternatives if you are concerned about our national security. 
   There is another reason to look for alternatives, and that is, if you believe that we have global warming, and I think there is an increasing body of evidence that suggests that that is probably true, and that we are probably contributing to that, although in the past the earth has been very much warmer, this is in a very distant past. Ordinarily, the past that we are talking about is from the last ice age, which is like some 10,000 years back. It is now the warmest we have ever been since that last ice age, but sometime way in the past the earth has been very much warmer because there were apparently subtropical seas in what is now the north slope of Alaska and the North Sea because we are finding oil and gas there. 
   The general belief is that this oil and gas was produced by organic material that grew in these subtropical seas, that every season it matured and fell to the bottom and was covered and mixed with sediment that was washed off of the adjacent hills, and then that built up for a very long time. Finally, with moving, the tectonic plates was submersed down with enough pressure and enough heat from the molten core of the earth and enough time that this finally was processed into gas and oil, and then if there was a rock dome over it which would hold the gas, now you have a very fertile place in which to drill. It took a very long time to grow all of that organic material and to turn it into gas and oil. 
   We are now in a relatively few years releasing all of the carbon dioxide that was sequestered in this organic material over quite a long time, until we are driving up the CO2 of the world, which in the last century or so is nearly twice now what it was a century or so ago. This is what we call a greenhouse gas. 
   You can get some idea as to the greenhouse effect. If tomorrow is a sunny day and a cold day, and if your car is parked outside with the sun shining on the windshield, you may find quite a warm car when you go out there. That is because of what we call the greenhouse effect. The light that comes in from the sun, call it white light, it comes in over a long spectrum of wave lengths, and it goes through the glass of your car. Then it warms up the material of your car and it reradiates only in the infrared. Well, the glass of your car is pretty much opaque to the infrared. It keeps the heat inside. It reflects it back, and that is why your car gets so warm. 
   The greenhouse gases out there, you may remember being in an airplane, you are 44,000 feet, and the pilot tells you it is 70 degrees below zero, when down just below you may be flying over south Florida where it is very warm, and this is because of the greenhouse effect. The energy coming in from the sun heats up things in the earth, and when that heat is reflected back out, emanated back out, it is reflected by what we call the greenhouse gases and CO2 as one of those. 
   So there is increasing evidence that we have global warming, and there may be a need to move to the alternatives because many of these alternatives, although they will produce CO2 when you burn them like ethanol, that CO2 was taken out of the atmosphere by the corn plant when it grew. So you are not contributing any more CO2 to the atmosphere if you are using a product that just last year or so took the CO2 out of the atmosphere. 
   Now, what you would want to do in these last 2 cases is a little different in moving to alternatives. We have a essentially run out of time and run out of energy to invest in alternatives. We absolutely knew by 1980 that M. King Hubbert was right about the United States. We had peaked in 1970. We have done nothing in the ensuing years. If M. King Hubbert is right about the world, we have no excess energy to invest or oil would not be $50, $60 barrel, which means we have essentially run out of time and have no energy to invest.     
   Now, we could buy some time and free up some energy with a very aggressive conservation program. 
   Now, if your concern is foreign oil, then you could also get some additional energy from such things as tar sands and oil shales and coal. But if your concern is global warming, this will be a very bad place to get energy to invest in the alternatives that we will ultimately have to transition to because it take a lot of energy to get energy out of tar sands, and that energy is fossil fuel energy and that releases CO2 into the atmosphere. 
   So you are making a bad situation worse if your concern is global warming and you think CO2 is the cause of that and you want to transition to renewables, and you are going to get the energy to transition to renewables from tar sands and oil shales and particularly in coal somewhat. You will simply be releasing more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. But let's look at these, because if the other two incentives are your incentives, then these are good bets. 
   If you are simply concerned that we have got to transition to renewables, then you will use whatever energy is available, and there is potentially enormous amounts of energy available in these tar sands and oil shales. And if you are concerned about dependence on foreign oil, then this is a good place to begin. 
   The tar sands. Some may call them oil sands; they are tar, thank you. It doesn't flow; it is really very much like tar. It is, I guess, a bit better than the asphalt parking lot out here, but not much better. If you put a blow torch on the parking lot, that will flow, too, which is pretty much what we have to do with the tar sands. They exist in Canada around Alberta, Canada. There is an incredible amount of potential energy there. There is more energy in these tar sands than in all the known reserves of oil in the world. 
   But why aren't we resting easy, then, that we have got an easy transition, a big source of energy? Because this energy is not all that easy to get out of the tar sands. The Canadians are now getting about a million barrels of oil a day. That sounds like a lot of oil, and it is a lot. It is a little less than 5 percent of what we use in our country and just a bit more than 1 percent of the 84 million, 85 million barrels a day that the world uses; but they are using an incredible amount of energy to get this. 
   They are mining this, if you will. They have a shovel there that lifts 100 tons at a time, they dump it into a truck that hauls 400 tons, and then they take it and they cook it, and they are cooking it at the present with natural gas. They have what is called stranded natural gas there. There are not very many people in Alberta, Canada, that use it and gas is very difficult to move long distances; and so they are using this gas to produce oil from the tar sands. 
   I am told, and you can be told a lot of things that aren't true, but I am told that they may be using more energy from the natural gas than they are getting out of the oil that they produce. But from an economy perspective, that is okay, because the gas is very cheap and the oil is very expensive. And I understand it costs them $18 to $25 a barrel to produce the oil; and if it is selling for $50, $60 a barrel, obviously there  is a big profit there. But this natural gas will not last forever. 
   And where will the next energy come from? They are talking about building a nuclear power plant there so they will have additional energy for cooking this oil. 
   And they have another problem. The vein I understand, if you think of this as a vein, it now ducks under a big overlay of rock and soil, so that they will not be able to continue to develop this by mining it which is what they are doing now. They will have to develop it in situ, and I don't know that they have any economically feasible way of developing it in situ. 
   So although there is an incredibly large amount of potential energy available there, it will take a lot of energy to get it out, so what you really need to be thinking about is the net energy or the energy-profit ratio that you get out of this. 
   Who knows what new technologies we may come up with, what the engineers may be able to do, but one should not be too sanguine that this will be a savior, that we will get enormous amounts of energy from this, because of the difficulty of getting the oil out. 
   The oil shales. The name might better be called tar shales, but we refer to oil shales, and they are found in our western United States, in Utah and Colorado and so forth. And, again, there is absolutely an incredible potential amount of oil that could be extracted from these oil shales, or tar shales. Probably more than all of the known reserves of oil in the world, if we could get it all out. There have been a couple of attempts to do that. The most recent one was by the Shell Oil Company, and there was some glowing reports in the papers about what they did there. But there are aquifers associated with this shale that they need to protect, and so what they do to develop this is to go in and drill a bunch of holes around the perimeter and then freeze it. 
   So they in effect have a frozen vessel, and the oil will not move through that frozen vessel. And then they drill wells in the middle of it and they cook it, and they cook it for a year. And then they drill a third set of wells, and then when they get to the bottom, they go horizontally. They are very good at doing that now. So the oil that they cooked, loosened up by the second set of wells they drilled, now flows down through the shale, into the well that they drilled that finally went horizontal, and then they pump it out of those wells, and then they pump it for several years and they get a really meaningful amount of oil out. 
   A couple of years ago I was out in Denver, Colorado, speaking to a peak oil conference there, and the engineer, the scientist who did this little experiment cautioned that it would be several years before Shell Oil Company decided whether it was even economically feasible to get any oil out of the oil shales using that technique. Now, there may be other techniques, but at present to my knowledge nobody has any big exploitation 
   of the oil shales. The one that got the most publicity was this experiment by the Shell Oil Company, and they have indicated it would be several years before they can determine whether $60 a barrel is even feasible to get that oil. 
   The next one here is coal, and we will put another chart up in front of this one, because we hear a lot about coal. And you may hear it said that we have 250 years, 500 years of coal. We don't have 500 years, but we do have 250 years of coal at current use rates. Be very careful when people are telling you how much we have of some resource. If it is at current use rates, you have to factor in how long it will last you if you have an increased use rate. 
   After the development of atomic energy, and the world was amazed by that, Dr. Albert Einstein was asked: What will be the next great energy source in the world? And he said the most powerful force in the world was the power of compound interest. 
   And when you look at exponential growth, if you increase the use of coal just 2 percent, and I submit that we will have to dig into coal much more than just 2 percent increase per year over what we now use, but if it is only 2 percent, that 250 years immediately shrinks to about 85 years; and then you can't fill your trunk with coal and go down the roads. You have to convert it to a gas or liquid. And, by the way, we have been doing this for decades. Hitler ran his whole military and his whole country on oil from coal. When I was a little kid, the lamps that you now call a kerosene lamp we called coal oil lamp because it was coal oil that replaced whale oil in the lamps, and long after we were using kerosene I still called it coal oil. 
   But if you use some of the energy from the coal to convert the rest of the coal into a gas or a liquid, now you are down to 50 years with just 2 percent growth rate. And there is something else to look at. Because oil is fungible and moves on a world market, and it really doesn't matter in today's world who owns the oil, the guy who bids the highest gets the oil. It all moves on a global marketplace. And since we use one-fourth of the world's oil, our 50-year supply at only 2 percent growth rate will last the world just one-fourth of 50, or 12 1/2 years. 
   So the coal is there. It is the most readily developed, unconventional fossil fuel energy source, and we need to husband it. But it is dirty. You will pay an environmental penalty if you use it without cleaning it up, or you will pay a big economic penalty if you clean it up. 
   Let's go back to the original chart we were looking at. And the previous speakers talked about nuclear, and indeed today we produce about 20 percent of our electricity, 8 percent of our total energy from nuclear. We could and maybe should do more. There is no energy source that is without its drawbacks. When you burn any fossil fuel, you release CO  
   2 into the atmosphere and that produces greenhouse effects, which might very well produce global warming. There are potential drawbacks to nuclear, but so are there drawbacks to not having enough energy for your civilization. 
   There are three ways in which we can get energy from nuclear materials. One of them is the lightwater reactor, which is the only kind of reactor that we have in our country that uses fissionable uranium, and there is not an inexhaustible amount of fissionable uranium in the world. 
   And one of the big problems in this whole dialogue is agreement on what the facts are. When I ask how much fissionable uranium remains in the world, and I guess you have to say at current use rates, I get numbers that range from 15 years to 100 years. We desperately need an honest broker to help us agree as to what the facts are so that we can have a meaningful dialogue. 
   I have thought a lot about this, and perhaps the National Academy of Sciences, which is highly respected and very knowledgeable, would be this honest broker. Because when we sit at the table discussing where we are and where we need to go, you can't have a rational discussion without agreeing on the facts. But nobody disagrees that there is an inexhaustible supply of fissionable uranium. So obviously at some point in a few years, or a few more years with building more nuclear power plants, and China wants to build a lot more nuclear power plants, we will run out of fissionable uranium. 
   And then we will have to move to the second type of energy released with nuclear fission, and that is the breeder reactor. The only breeder reactors we ever had were those that were used for producing nuclear weapons. France produces about 80 percent, 85 percent of its electricity from nuclears, and they have some breeder reactors. The breeder reactor does what its name implies, it breeds fuel, so you now will have essentially a replaceable and therefore inexhaustible amount of fuel. 
   But there are problems that go with the breeder reactor. It has waste products that you have to somehow store away for maybe one-quarter of a million years. Now, we have only 5,000 years of recorded history. It is hard for us to imagine one-quarter of a million years. Something that is so hot that I have to store it away somewhere for one-quarter of a million years I think ought to have enough energy in it that we ought to be able to do something productive with that energy. As a matter of fact, the usual nuclear power plant gets only a tiny percentage of all the potential energy out of the nucleus. 
   So I would like to challenge our engineers to look at a way to make something good out of what is now a big problem when you have breeder reactors, and that is a byproduct that you  need to store away for very long time periods. 
   The second type of nuclear energy release is what is called fusion. And we have a great fusion reactor; it is called our Sun, which is a mediocre star over near one end of the Milky Way. By the way, if you go someplace where the air is not so polluted and you look up at night, you can see across the sky that great Milky Way. It looks like you have taken a brush across the sky. There are just billions and billions of stars out there.     
   All of the stars are the equivalent of our sun, by the way. Nuclear fusion, power plants, if you will, and we are kind of a mediocre one near one end of the Milky Way. 
   We invest about $250 million a year in nuclear fusion. I happily support that. I wish there was a technology out there to and a technologist to use more money. I would happily vote for that. But if you think that we are going to solve our energy problems with nuclear fusion, you probably have some confidence you are going to solve your personal economic problems by winning the lottery. The gamble is about the same. 
   I think there are huge, huge engineering challenges with nuclear fusion. We have been working for many years, and we are always about 20-30 years away from a solution. We have been 20-30 years away from a solution for the last 20-30 years. We may get there. But it is not the kind of thing that you would want to bet the ranch on. By the way, we are home free if we get that. That would be an inexhaustible source of energy, essentially pollution free except for thermal pollution. 
   I would like to talk about thermal pollution in our power plants. We have had the luxury in this rich country we live in to put our nuclear power plants away from where we live, and the heat energy that comes out of them, we dissipate. If you drive, you see the big cooling towers for the nuclear power plants. What we are doing is we are evaporating drinking water to cool these power plants. 
   Almost everywhere else in the world, whether it is nuclear or coal, no matter what it is, unless it is hydro, then it is where the water is, but every other power plant is pretty much in the city right where people live, and they use the heat from that for what they call district heating. They pipe it to homes and businesses, and they use it in the wintertime to heat. In the summertime, you can use the heat to cool by the ammonia refrigeration, ammonia cycle refrigeration system, which used to be very popular in this country. But now you have to buy one from Argentina if you want one, for some reason. They have no moving parts and last a very long time. You can get cooling out of heat. So you can both heat and air conditioning with the excess heat from these power plants if you simply sited them nearer where people live. 
   Once you have used these finite resources, and they are finite, except for the nuclear that we have discussed. The others are finite. They will not last forever, then we will have only the true renewables left. They are such things as solar and wind and geothermal. This is true geothermal. 
   You may have people talk to you about geothermal and they are talking about connecting your heat pump to the earth or a well. What you are doing with your heat pump in the summertime, your air conditioner is really trying to heat up the outside air, that is how it cools the inside. And in the wintertime, your heat pump is keeping you warm by trying to cool down the outside air. 
   If you are working against groundwater, and here it is about 56 degrees, groundwater looks very cool in the summertime, and it looks very warm in the wintertime. I remember as a little boy we had a springhouse on our farm, and that is where our food was kept cool. I used to wonder how does that happen. 
   In the summertime I went into the springhouse and it was so cool. And in the wintertime, it felt so warm. Of course it was essentially the same temperature. But in contrast with the hot summer air it felt cool, and in contrast with the cold winter air it felt warm. 
   True geothermal is where we are connected to the heat from the molten core of the Earth. If you have been to Iceland, there is not a chimney in all of Iceland because they have geothermal and they get all of their heat sources from that. 
   Several places in our country we can tap that, and wherever we can we should. It is not really inexhaustible. The molten core of the Earth will not be there forever, but it will be there for millions and millions of years, so from our perspective that is an inexhaustible source of heat so we include it under renewables. 
   Then we have a number of sources of energy from the oceans. There is huge potential from the oceans. The tides, and by the way, the tides are one of the few energy sources that are not either the direct or indirect result of the sun. All of the fossil fuels that we are burning, gas and oil, and all of these tar, sands and oil shale were all produced by organic material that grew because the sun was shining a very long time ago. 
   I knew that when I was a little boy for coal because we lived on a farm in western Pennsylvania, and there was a coal mine on our farm. There had been a cave-in and they simply took the mules and the people out an air shaft that had a walkout slope, and so there was still some coal left. There was not enough to open the mine, but we partnered with a miner from the local town but he opened the mine and they drug coal with a pick and a shovel and a wheelbarrow. So we had what was called run-a-mine coal. We had a coal furnace, as did everybody in western Pennsylvania. Some of the lumps were too big to get in the furnace. Leaning against the cellar wall was a sledge hammer. If the lump was too big, you would break it. I remember breaking those lumps of coal and they would break open and there would be the imprint of a fern leaf. I still get a chill when I think about that. 
   Here I am looking at something that grew who knew how many eons ago. So I knew very well where coal came from, it came from vegetation that had fallen and was overlaid with Earth. 
   You can see coal in the process of production, by the way, in the bogs of England. It is not yet coal but it is on the way to coal. And if you take it out, it will burn. 
   The sun produces most of the energy that you can get from the oceans. It produces thermal gradients. It produces the waves. How does it do that, by producing wind. The wind is the result of the differential heating of the Earth, and that therefore is sun driven. 
   There is one big potential source of energy in the ocean that is not sun generated, and that is the tides. They are generated by the gravitational pull of the Moon, which lifts the whole ocean 2 to 3 feet. 
   Can you imagine the incredible amount of energy it takes to lift three-fourths of the earth's surface 2 or 3 feet a day. We have tried to get meaningful energy from the tides without a whole lot of success, and it is simply because they are so disperse. There is an old axiom, energy or power to be effective must be concentrated, and the tides are anything but concentrated. They are spread over huge, huge expanses. 
   We get some meaningful energy from the tides in the fjords where because of funneling effects you may have a 60-foot tide. You let it come in and then you wall it off and let it flow out through a generator when the tide goes out. 
   There is another potential source of energy from the oceans, it is not really oceans but you find most of it there, and that is gas hydrites. There is more potential energy in the gas hydrites I understand than in all of the fossil fuels in all of the Earth, but we have been singularly unsuccessful in trying to collect those little nodules of gas hydrites and get the energy from them because they are dispersed largely on the ocean bottom over enormous expanses of the ocean. Well, these are all challenges. And one day when energy becomes less and less available from fossil fuels and more and more expensive, some of these other sources will be more exploitable. 
   And then the agricultural resource, and let me put the next chart up here. 
   I would like to start on the left-hand side of this because it really shows us where we are and the challenges we face. We are very much like the young couple whose grandparents have died and left them a pretty big inheritance, and so they have established a life-style, pretty lavish life-style where 85  percent of the money they spend comes from their grandparents' inheritance and only 15 percent, some people will say 14, 15 percent comes from their income. They look at how old they are and how much they are spending, gee, it is going to run out before they die, before they retire, as a matter of fact. So they obviously have to do one of two things, or both: They have to make more money or spend less money. That is pretty much where we are with energy. 
   Three-fourths of all of the energy that we use comes from fossil fuels: Petroleum, natural gas, and coal. 
   Only 15 percent of it comes from something other than fossil fuels. Eight percent comes from nuclear power, and that is 8 percent of our total energy. Nuclear power represents 20 percent of our electricity. If you don't like nuclear power, imagine when you go home tonight that every fifth business and every fifth home doesn't have any electricity because that's what the picture would be if we didn't have nuclear power. So 8 percent. And this is data from 2000. It is a little different because we have been trying to do something since then. 
   Seven percent of the energy represents the true renewables, like solar and wood and waste and wind, conventional hydro. Agriculture, here we have alcohol fuel and then the geothermal that we talked about where you are truly tapping into the heat from the molten core of the Earth. 
   These numbers would have to be a little bigger now, but they would have to be a lot bigger to be relevant because in 2000, solar was 0.07 percent. That is trifling. It has been growing at 30 percent a year so it is several times larger than it was in 2000. But still, it is minuscule compared to the 21 million barrels of oil that we use per day. 
   And 38 percent of this comes from wood and that's largely the paper and timber industry burning waste product. 
   Then a very interesting one, waste to energy. A lot of people look at the incredible amount of waste we have and say if we could just burn that waste, we could get a lot of energy from that. That's true. 
   As you go up into Montgomery County, they have a very nice one, I would be proud to have it beside my church. You don't even know it is a waste to energy power plant. It is a nice looking building and the train or the truck comes in and the waste is all in containers and you don't even see it. 
   But let me remind you that almost all of this waste is the result of profligate use of fossil fuel energy. What you are really doing when you burn that waste to produce electricity is you are kind of burning secondhand fossil fuels because that's what was used to produce this waste. In an energy deficient world, there will be far, far less waste because waste is a by-product of large energy use, and in an energy-deficient world we would be using nowhere near as much energy. 
   Wind. Wind is really growing. Our previous hour talked about wind. The wind machines today are huge. You may see the blades for them go down the highway. They may be 60 feet long, as big as an airplane wing. They are huge, and produce megawatts of electricity. They are producing them at about 2.5 cents a kilowatt hour. 
   By the way, because we did not have the proper incentives in our country, we have now forfeited the manufacture of this product. Almost all I understand of the new big what I think are handsome wind machines are made overseas. Most are made in Denmark. 
   The cheapest electricity costs several times the 2.5 cents a kilowatt hour, so wind machines are now really competitive with other ways of producing electricity. 
   There are a lot of siting problems, a lot of nimby kinds of reactions. That is, not in my backyard. My wife says these are really bananas, build absolutely nothing anywhere near anybody, she says is the attitude of many of these people. 
   You know, pretty is as pretty does, and if your alternative is shivering in the dark in an energy deficient fossil fuel world, that may be what we are coming to, and wind machines may start to look a whole lot better. I know some people who live along the coast would mind wind machines if they couldn't see them, so they are trying to site them out in the ocean beyond the horizon so they won't see the wind machines.     
   Conventional hydroelectric. You see, that is the biggest sector of these renewables. We have about maxed out on that. We have dammed every river we should have dammed and maybe some we shouldn't. The migratory path of fishes, and I saw a big article the other day about eels, we are now building some ladders so that eels, which are snake-like fish, can get back to their spawning grounds, but there is a huge potential, I understand, maybe as big as that, from something called microhydro. And that is using the water flow and drop in small streams. And there you can use it without the big impacts on the environment that you have when you dam up a big river. 
   By the way, if you have dammed that river up for water for a downstream city, that will become less and less effective as it gradually fills in with silt, and it will. And by and by, who knows how many years later, there will be little water there because it will be mostly filled with silt that came down from further up in the watershed. 
   If you are just interested in electricity, it still, when it comes over the dam, falls the same distance. So that silting in won't really effect how much electricity you can produce, but it will affect how much you can vary the height of the reservoir so as to always maintain some reserve for producing the electricity. 
   I would like to spend a few moments talking about energy from agriculture. There is an awful lot of hype about energy from agriculture. I read the other day, and I don't know why it took us so long to find this, but in 1957, 50 years ago this year, Hyman Rickover, the father of the nuclear submarine, gave a talk to a group of physicians. It is an incredible speech. He was so prophetic. He understood that gas and oil were not forever. That, I think, is obvious. 
   Maybe it is because I am a scientist, but probably 40 years ago I started asking myself the question, you know, since gas and oil obviously are finite, they are not infinite, they will not last forever, at what point do we need to start being concerned about what is left? Is it a year, 10 years, 100 years, 1,000 years? I didn't know when I first started asking this question. But I knew that at some point in time the world would have to start thinking about, gee, what do we do when gas and oil and coal are gone? Because one day gas and oil and coal will be gone. 
   So there is a lot of hype about energy from agriculture. But Hyman Rickover, very, very astutely observed that as our population increased, the ground would be more used for producing food than it would be something you burned or fermented. And he also noted, talking about biomass, that biomass might be more valuable returning it to the soil so that you still had soil rather than taking it off to either burn or ferment. 
   We will get some energy from agriculture, but every bit of corn you use to make ethanol is corn that is not used as a food. We are well fed in this country, many of us more than well fed, but tonight, about 20 percent of the world will go to bed hungry. But as our population continues to increase, there will be less and less opportunity to use agriculture products for energy rather than food. 
   By the way, there is one way we could free up a lot of agricultural products for energy. If you will eat the corn and the soybeans rather than the pig and the cow that ate the corn and the soybeans, then you could free up a lot of corn for ethanol and soybeans for biodiesel. The animal breeder may brag he has a pig or a chicken that is so efficient that three pounds of corn will make one pound of pig. That is true. But that is three pounds of dry corn and one pound of wet pig; maybe 90 percent dry matter in the corn and for sure 70 percent water in the pig. And you can't eat his bones. 
   And so on a dry matter to dry matter basis, it takes at least 10 pounds of dry matter in corn to make one pound of dry matter in the pig or the chicken, and probably 20 in the steer. You get very much more efficient conversion of these grains and beans into good food if you use milk. 
   A cow will today produce 20,000 pounds of milk in a year with a ton of dry matter. She doesn't weigh a ton, but you have a ton of dry matter in her  milk for the year, which has very high food value. There is no protein that is as good as milk protein. We determine the quality of protein by feeding young rats. It may not be complimentary that the animal has dietary requirements nearer us than any other, rats, but they do. And they are also omnivorous. And we determine how good their protein is by how fast young rats grow. 
   If you assign a value of 100 to milk protein, eggs come in at about 96, and the meats on down. And that shouldn't surprise you. God or nature, or whoever you think did it, obviously designed milk to grow young animals. A 100-pound sheep will put a pound each on twin lambs just from her milk. Enormously efficient. And eggs are very efficiently produced compared to producing the chicken that you eat. 
   So we can free up a lot of these food crops for energy if we will simply eat the food crops rather than processing them through animals. 
   The next chart shows one of the challenges in producing ethanol. Indeed, there are some scientists who believe that we use more energy in producing ethanol, more fossil fuel energy in producing ethanol than we get out of it. I hope they are wrong. I believe that it can be possible. But even after you have made the ethanol, you still have all of the protein and all of the fat left in the corn, and that is pretty good feed. 
   Just an observation about what we eat and give to our animals. If you go to the Orient, the main protein source there for people is what is called tofu, and that is soybean protein. In this country, we take the soybean and we express the oil, which is the least valuable nutritionally, and we use the oil and we feed what is left of it to our pigs and chickens. No wonder that they are healthier than many of us. 
   Here is a little comparison of the energy inputs in producing ethanol and in producing gasoline. Obviously, you expend some energy. You don't get all the energy from the oil in your gas tank. You expend some of that in drilling it, in pumping it, transporting it, refining it and hauling it to the service station, and so forth. So you use 1.23 million Btu's to get 1 million Btu's. 
   Well, what is the story with corn? Now, you have a lot of free energy with corn. You have the solar energy, the photosynthesis that makes the corn grow. And this is about as good as it is going to get. To get 1 million Btu's of energy out of corn, you are going to have to spend about three-fourths of a million Btus in growing the corn, harvesting it, processing the ethanol, and so forth. 
   Down at the bottom here is a very interesting pie chart, and it shows something that very few people know, and that is that almost half the energy that goes into producing corn comes from nitrogen fertilizer, which is now made from natural gas. So this is a fossil fuel input. This is all fossil fuel input, by the way. 
   You just go around this little pie here and you are talking about mining the potash, and mining the phosphate, and mining the lime that makes the soil sweeter so that the nutrients can be absorbed. The diesel fuel in the tractor, the gasoline, the liquid propane gas, the electricity you use is produced by 
   fossil fuels. The natural gas you use for drying your crops, for instance, the custom work, the guy you hire to come. 
   And then all of the chemicals, something that we rarely, rarely reflect on. Gas and oil are huge feedstocks for a very important petrochemical industry. Most of our insecticides, most of our herbicides and so forth are made from gas and oil. And this is the contribution they make to growing corn. It is really, really quite large there, isn't it? 
   I have been told that 13 percent of our corn crop would displace 2 percent of our gasoline. But the only fair way to look at the contribution ethanol can make is to grow corn with energy from corn, and you can do that. But if you grow corn with energy from corn, to get a bushel of corn to use here, you have to use three bushels of corn. Remember, the 750,000 Btu inputs to get a million? You need three bushels going in to get one out, which means that it is one to four. You only get a fourth of it out, which means that you are going to have to use 52 percent of your corn crop to displace just 2 percent of our gasoline. 
   So when you are hearing the euphemistic projections of how much of our gasoline we are going to displace with ethanol, just remember these numbers. 
   Now, some people are even more enthusiastic about what is called cellulosic ethanol. Cellulose and lignin, particularly cellulose, we can't digest. It is made up of a whole long string of glucose molecules, which is a simple sugar; half of what we call sucrose, which is a double sugar disaccharide. But they are so tightly bound together, we don't have any enzymes in our gut which will release them. And neither does any other animal, by the way. 
   So, gee, you might say, how do cows, sheep, goats, horses, and guinea pigs make do eating grass and hay? They make do because they have in their gut what are called comincils, animals or little critters that live in there, some of them multi-cellular, some single cells, that have chemicals, enzymes that can split the cellulose into the requisite glucose molecules and then the host simply absorbs those. 
   We are now able to bioengineer some little organisms that can do that. So now, when you look at the huge piles of beet pulp, look at the corn fields with all the corn fodder out there, people are saying, gee, look how much energy we could get from this agricultural waste. You can get it by burning it, or you can use it by making cellulosic ethanol from it. But, you know, topsoil is topsoil because it has organic material. It gives it tilth. Why does it have to be there? Because without the organic material, the soils can't hold the nutrients and they can't hold the water necessary for growing things. You can't grow plants in stone dust and you can't grow plants in sand. So you have to have organic material there. For a few years, we might be able to mine the organic material and still grow some crops, but there will be diminishing returns. I don't know steady state how much we can take. 
   Some people are euphemistic about how much we are going to get from sawgrass, prairie grass. They see it growing in huge amounts. But I suspect this year's prairie grass is growing because last year's prairie grass died and is fertilizing it. Now, we certainly can get something from this biomass, from agricultural waste and from growing trees and so forth, but it will not be enormous. 
   Let me give you some idea of what the challenge is. We use 21 million barrels of oil a day. Each barrel of oil has the energy equivalent of 12 people working all year. Hyman Rickover used data which showed the average family in 1957 used fossil fuel energy resulting in the equivalent of having 33, he said, full-time servants.     
   If you have some trouble getting your mind around this one barrel of oil and 12 people working all year, and by the way, that is costing you less than $10 per person per year, think how far a gallon of gasoline or diesel fuel, I appreciate the chart from the previous hour which showed how cheap oil was. It costs considerable less than water in the grocery store, by the way. But think how far that gallon of gasoline or diesel fuel carries your car and how long it would take you to pull the car there. And that gives you some idea of the challenge we face. 
   Another little example: if you are a strong man and work hard all day long, I will get more work out of an electric motor for less than 25 cents' worth of electricity. Now, that may be humbling to recognize that you are worth less than 25 cents a day in terms of fossil fuel energy, but that is the reality. 
   There are two publications. We have only a few moments remaining. I want to go quickly through some slides here. We have two major studies, one of them is a Corps of Engineers study and these first few slides will be from their study. The second one is the big SAIC study, commonly known as the Hirsch Report. I just want to read quickly some of the things they said. These are paid for by our government. They are out there. You may be asking the question, Gee, why aren't people talking about this and why aren't we doing something about it? Good question. 
   This is from the Corps of Engineers: the current price of oil is in the 45 to 57 per barrel range and is expected to stay in that range for several years. When they wrote this, by the way, it was about 65. Oil prices may go significantly higher, and some have predicted  prices ranging up to $180 a barrel in a few years. 
   Oil is the most important form of energy in the world today. Historically, no other energy source equals oil's intrinsic qualities of extractability, transportability, versatility, and cost. The qualities that enabled oil to take over from coal as the front line energy source for the industrialized world in the middle of the 20th century are as relevant today as they were then. And then this quote: In general, all nonrenewable resources follow a natural supply curve, getting more and more till you reach a peak and then falling down the other side. And they are concurring, a careful estimate of all the estimates lead to the conclusion that world oil production may peak within a few short years, after which it will decline. Once peak oil occurs, then the historic patterns of world oil demand and price cycles will cease. 
   And the last one from this source: Petroleum experts indicate that peaking is either present or imminent; will occur around 2005. 
   And now some charts from the Hirsch Report. This is very widely publicized. They concluded that we would have unprecedented risk management problems as we face the problem of transitioning from declining quantities of gas and oil and moving to alternatives. The economic, social, and political costs will be unprecedented. And then they state, We cannot conceive of any affordable government-sponsored crash program to accelerate normal replacement schedules. They said we should have started 20 years before peaking. If it is here, we are 20 years too late, aren't we? 
   And then this quote: The world has never faced a problem like this. There is a third report out there and that is by the Cambridge Energy Research Associates, and they believe that peaking will occur sometime in the future. And they present this little chart. This shows Hubbert's peak here, by the way, and because the actual data points didn't exactly follow his prediction, they are saying that you can't rely on his analysis. The little peak here, by the way, and the next chart will show us, that is from the Alaska oil find. Just a blip and the slide down the other side of Hubbert's peak. 
   And then in the couple of minutes remaining to us, the last slide we will have a chance to look at here. And this shows several predictions, depending upon whether you think the world will find enormously more oil than we now have found. And I will tell you that most of the experts that I have talked to believe we have found 95 percent of all the oil we will ever find. That is this curve. If you think we are going to double the amount of oil that we have now found, then that is this curve. And the one on top here, and by the way, they say that they don't believe in peaking, but they present this curve which shows peaking. This is unconventional oil. 
   Make up your own mind how much of that we are going to get, remembering the discussion we had earlier of the difficulty of getting this oil. 
   Mr. Speaker, we in the world face a huge challenge. I just returned from China. They are talking about post oil. They get it. I wish we did. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (MOTION TO ADJOURN -- (House of Representatives - January 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I rise as a proud conservative and Republican, as well as a cosponsor, to urge support of H.R. 6. 
   Oil and natural gas are not forever. When we burn them, they are gone. The U.S. has only 2 percent of known oil reserves. We use 25 percent of the world's oil and import two-thirds of what we are using. We pump our reserves four times faster than the rest of the world. 
   I just returned from a trip to China. China is preparing for a post-oil world. 
   There are three reasons to pursue renewable alternatives to fossil fuels. One is climate change. A second reason is preparing for peak oil. A third reason is for national security risk of our dependence on foreign oil. 
   As predicted by M. King Hubbert, and ratified by a recent SAIC report, the world either has or will shortly reach peak oil. As a cofounder and cochairman of the Congressional Peak Oil Caucus, I can assure you that halfway through the age of oil, there is an urgent need for the U.S. to pursue conservation efficiency and alternative renewable sources of domestic energy. 
   We have a moral obligation to leave younger generations some oil. I urge support of this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - May 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, this is really a very important day in our history. Exactly 50 years ago today in St. Paul, MN, Admiral Hyman Rickover gave a very famous speech. In a few moments, I will have here a copy of that speech, and I want to spend most of the hour that we have this evening going over that speech, because he was amazingly prophetic. This was a speech given to a group of physicians, and it was about energy. Of course, his primary interest was nuclear energy, and this was a speech about energy in general. 
   As I said, he was amazingly prophetic. He understood some relationships, which today, with 50 years of history behind us, he couldn't have seen. He was amazingly more cognizant of some realities than many of our people today. 
   We, of course, recognize that for several reasons we need to be moving away from fossil fuels. There are several groups of people with different interests who have really a common goal in their desire to move away from fossil fuels to renewables. And these several groups find common cause, and I hope that there will be less discussion of the potential limitations of the other groups' premise and more focus on a common goal, and that is to help our country and our world move away from fossil fuels to renewables. 
   The groups that have common cause in this are, first of all, environmentalists, and there are two groups in the environmentalists who are concerned about this. One is a group which is large and growing, and that is a group that believes that our excessive use of fossil fuels releasing carbon dioxide that was sequestered a very long time ago, perhaps millions of years ago, with subtropical seas and plumes of organisms like our algae today, which then fell to the bottom and were covered by sediment washed in from the adjoining hills and then later submerged by movements of tectonic  plates and with time and pressure became what we know today as gas and oil. Coal is a little simpler. It wasn't buried so deep, and you can see in the broken block of coal the ancient fern leaves from which the coal was produced. I saw that many times as a little child in western Pennsylvania, coal country, when I broke lumps of coal to feed our coal furnace. And what we are doing today, of course, is releasing that carbon dioxide very fast. It took maybe millions of years to sequester, but we are releasing it very fast; and so it is producing greenhouse gases, which are warming the Earth and producing temperature changes. 
   For those who may wonder what difference does it make, a degree here and a degree there. I would like to remind them that during the last Ice Age about 10, 12,000 years ago, our world was only 5 degrees centigrade colder than it is today. That is 9 degrees Fahrenheit. And what this says is that very small temperature changes can make huge changes in our weather. 
   A second group of environmentalists who have common cause in wanting to move away from fossil fuels are those who believe that our air is polluted enough and why would we want to pollute it further. 
   Then there are those who yearn for the day when America was a leading exporter, and they believe that moving from fossil fuels to renewables, sustainable renewables, that we can develop technologies which will be saleable world-around. 
   And then there is a growing group of people who have major concerns that, with only 2 percent of the known reserves of oil and using 25 percent of the world's oil and importing almost two-thirds of what we use, that this represents a totally unacceptable national security risk, and so their desire is to move from fossil fuels, which we have very little of, to renewables, which we hopefully could produce more of. 
   And then there is the last group of these five, and by the way, I subscribe in varying degrees to all of these other goals, but the last one is particularly significant because we might somehow make it through, luckily, the other crises that may be there. But the peak oil crisis is one we won't make it through, and that is one that Hyman Rickover talked a good deal about. 
   Here is his speech. It was for delivery at a banquet of the Annual Scientific Assembly of the Minnesota State Medical Association, St. Paul, MN, May 14, 1957. That is exactly 50 years ago today, and I am very pleased that in the gallery with us is the widow of Admiral Hyman Rickover. 
   Mrs. Rickover, welcome. 
   And we are here to celebrate a great American who gave a really, really prophetic speech. And I am going to spend most of the time pretty much reading this speech, and I will put up here some charts from particularly significant quotes from his speech and some others which will help illuminate what he said. The title of his speech was ``Energy Resources and Our Future.'' He starts out by saying: 
   ``I am honored to be here tonight, though it is no easy thing, I assure you, for a layman to face up to an audience of physicians. A single one of you, sitting behind his desk, can be quite formidable. 
   ``My speech has no medical connotations. This may be a relief to you after the solid professional fare you have been absorbing. I should like to discuss a matter which will, I hope, be of interest to you as responsible citizens: the significance of energy resources in the shaping of our future.'' 
   Now, all of this is 50 years ago. I want you to listen to how profound his statements were and how completely he recognized the problems that we would be facing. 
   ``We live in what historians may some day call the Fossil Fuel Age. Today coal, oil, and natural gas supply 93 percent of the world's energy; water power accounts for only 1 percent; and the labor of men and domestic animals the remaining 6 percent.'' Now, those figures have changed somewhat since then. 
   ``This is a startling reversal of corresponding figures for 1850, only a century ago. Then fossil fuels supplied 5 percent of the world's energy, and men and animals 94 percent. Five-sixths of all the coal, oil, and gas consumed since the beginning of the Fossil Fuel Age has been burned up in the last 55 years.'' Now if you were to bring that forward, it would be a bigger percentage than that. 
   ``These fuels have been known to man for more than 3,000 years. In parts of China, coal was used for domestic heating and cooking, and natural gas for lighting as early as 1000 B.C. But these early uses were sporadic and of no economic significance. Fossil fuels did not become a major source of energy until machines running on coal, gas, or oil were invented. Wood, for example, was the most important fuel until 1800, when it was replaced by coal. Coal, in turn, has only recently been surpassed by oil in this country. 
   ``Once in full swing, fossil fuel consumption'' had been ``accelerated at phenomenal rates. All the fossil fuels used before 1900 would not last 5 years at today's rate of consumption.'' And that was 50 years ago. What would it be today? 
   ``Nowhere are these rates higher and growing faster than in the United States. Our country, with only 6 percent of the world's population,'' today a bit less than 5, ``uses one-third of the world's total energy input.'' Today it is about 25 percent because much of the rest of the world is catching up with us, but, still, 25 percent for less than 5 percent of the world's population is very significant. 
   ``This proportion would be even greater except that we use energy more efficiently than other countries.'' Still true today, only we use 25 percent of the world's energy. We use it more efficiently than most of the rest of the world. 
   ``Each American has at his disposal, each year, energy equivalent to that obtainable from eight tons of coal.'' This was just 50 years ago. It would be more than that today. 
   Time magazine, a little while back, had on its cover, and you may remember that, a pile of coal that they said was a quarter of a ton, and that was the amount of coal that would be saved for power production if you unscrewed that incandescent light and put in it one of the little fluorescent bulbs that you can screw into a regular socket.     
   This is six times the world's per capita energy consumption, what we were using in this country. Though not quite so spectacular, corresponding figures for other highly industrialized countries also show above average consumption figures. The United Kingdom, for example, uses more than three times as much energy as the world average. 
   I want you to look at this first chart while I am reading this because you have to look at the colors and what each of the men stand for and each of those different colors to understand this. But this was in his day, 50 years ago. What would these numbers be today? 
   With high energy consumption goes a high standard of living. Thus the enormous fossil fuel energy which we in this country control feeds machines which make each of us master of an army of mechanical slaves. Man's muscle power is rated at 35 watts continuously, or 120th horsepower. That is on a 24/7 basis. It's a bit more than that. I generally think of about a 70 watt bulb if you're awake and not working much. Machines therefore furnish every American industrial worker with energy equivalent to that of 244 men, while at least 2,000 men push his automobile along the road and his family is supplied with 33 faithful household helpers. Each locomotive engineer, as you can see on the chart, controls energy equivalent to that of 100,000 men, each jet pilot of 700,000 men. Truly, he says, the humblest American enjoys the services of more slaves than were once owned by the richest nobles and lives better than most ancient kings. In retrospect, and despite wars, revolutions and disasters, the hundred years just gone by may well seem like a Golden Age. And we have continued that Golden Age another 50 years, until today. And then he says, whether this Golden Age will continue depends entirely upon our ability to keep energy supplies in balance with the needs of our growing population. 
   Before I go into this question, let me review briefly the role of energy resources and the rise and falls of civilizations. And as I read, you may look at the next chart because some of the quotes in the next couple of paragraphs are in this chart.  
   I would like for you to pay particular attention to this because he describes very well the contribution that energy has made to the development of civilization. And if we understand how energy contributed to the development of civilization, we will get some clue as to what will happen when we start down the other side of this curve. 
   He mentions a little later that 8,000 years of recorded history in the age of oil will span but a brief time, probably about 300 years. We are about 150 years through the age of oil. So, concentrate on what he is saying about the contribution of energy to the development of civilization, because unless we are really clever and using the new technologies we have found, it is possible that we will see a reversal of this as energy becomes less and less available. Will civilization decline with decreasing energy as it increased with increasing energy? 
   Possession of surplus energy is of course a requisite for any kind of civilization. For if man possesses only the energy of his own muscles, he must expend all of his strength, mental and physical, to obtain the bare necessities of life. 
   Surplus energy provides a material foundation for civilized living, a comfortable and tasteful home instead of a bare shelter; attractive clothing, instead of mere covering to keep warm; appetizing food, instead of anything that suffices to appease hunger. It provides the freedom from toil without which there can be no art, music, literature or learning. 
   There is no need to belabor the point. What lifted man, one of the weaker mammals, above the animal world was that he could devise with his brain ways to increase the energy at his disposal and use the leisure so gained to cultivate his mind and spirit. He refers to us as one of the weaker mammals, and that is true. We cannot run nearly as fast as many. We have nowhere near the strength. A chimpanzee our size has several times our strength. Our sense of smell is really very poor compared to a dog, and a dog very poor compared to male moth that can detect the presence of a female 10 kilometers away and detect the concentration gradient so that he knows which direction to fly to find her. We are indeed one of the weaker mammals, but we have dominated the world because of our ability to control energy. 
   Where man must rely solely on the energy of his own body, he can sustain only the most meager existence. Man's first step on the ladder of civilization dates from his discovery of fire and his domestication of animals. With these energy resources, he was able to build a pastoral culture. To move upward to an agricultural civilization he needed more energy. In the past this was found in the labor of dependent members of large patriarchal families, augmented by slaves obtained through purchase or as war booty. There are some backward communities which to this day depend on this type of energy. 
   Now, some of the things he says here you are going to have to relate to 50 years ago. He talks about India and China in a few moments. And clearly they now have entered the industrialized part of the world and are growing very rapidly. But what he said about them then was very true of them then and true of other just beginning to develop countries today. 
   Slave labor was necessary for the city-states and the empires of antiquity. They frequently had slave populations larger than their free citizenry. As long as slaves were abundant and no moral censure attached to their ownership, incentives to search for alternative sources of energy were lacking. And this is a really interesting statement. ``This may well have been the single most important reason why engineering advanced very little in ancient times.'' Through all of the Dark Ages, centuries, civilization advanced very little because engineering advanced very little, and he thinks this may have been because of the availability of slave labor. 
   The next chart. A reduction of per capita energy consumption has always, in the past, led to a decline in civilization and a reversion to a more primitive way of life. And he gives some fascinating examples. For example, exhaustion of wood fuel is believed to have been the primary reason for the fall of the Mayan civilization on this continent and the decline of once fourishing civilizations in Asia. India and China once had large forests, as did much of the Middle East. Deforestation not only lessened the energy base, but had a further disastrous effect; lacking plant cover, soil washed away. And with soil erosion, the nutritional base was reduced as well. 
   Another cause of declining civilization comes with pressure of population on available land. A point is reached where the land can no longer support both the people and their domestic animals. Horses and mules disappear first. Finally, even the versatile water buffalo is displaced by man, who is 2.5 times as efficient an energy converter as are draft animals. It must always be remembered that while domestic animals and agricultural machines increase productivity per man, maximum productivity per acre is achieved only by intensive manual cultivation. And as he points out, the press of populations will eventually lead to this state in much of the world. 
   It is a sobering thought that the impoverished people of Asia, who today seldom go to sleep with their hunger completely satisfied, and remember, this is 50 years ago, were once far more civilized and lived better than the people of the West. And not so very long ago either. It was the stories brought back by Marco Polo of the marvelous civilization in China which turned Europe's eyes to the riches of the East and induced adventurous sailors to brave the high seas in their small vessels searching for a direct route to the fabulous Orient. The ``wealth of the Indies'' is a phrase still used, but whatever wealth may have been there is certainly not evident in the life of the people today. This is 50 years ago. They are now using energy, very large amounts of it. China probably has a greater percent increase in energy than about any other country and their economy is growing; the last quarter for which I saw data, 11.4 percent. 
   Asia failed to keep technological pace with the needs of her growing population and sank into such poverty that in many places man has become again the primary source of energy since other energy converters have become too expensive. This must be obvious to the most casual observer. What this means is quite simply a reversion into a more primitive stage of civilization with all that it implies for human dignity and happiness. But very fortunately, technology is moving into this part of the world and the quality of their life is now increasing. 
   Anyone who has watched a sweating Chinese farm worker, and again, this is 50 years ago, strain at his heavily laden wheelbarrow, creaking along a cobblestone road, or who has flinched as he drives past an endless procession of human beasts of burden moving to market in Java, the slender women bent under mountainous loads heaped on their heads, anyone who has seen statistics translated into flesh and bone realizes the degradation of man's stature when his muscle power becomes the only energy source he can afford. Civilization must wither when human beings are so degraded. 
   Where slavery represented a major source of energy, its abolition had the immediate effect of reducing energy consumption. Thus, when this time-honored institution came under more censure by Christianity, civilization declined until other sources of energy could be found. Slavery is incompatible with Christian belief in the worth of the humblest individual as a child of God. 
   As Christianity spread through the Roman empire and masters freed their slaves in obedience to the teaching of the church, the energy base of Roman civilization crumbled. This, some historians believe, may have been a major factor in the decline of Rome and the temporary reversion to a more primitive way of life during the Dark Ages. 
   Slavery gradually disappeared throughout the Western world, except in its milder form of serfdom. That it has revived a thousand years later merely shows man's inability to stifle his conscience, at least for a while, when his economic needs are great. Eventually, even the needs of overseas plantation economies did not suffice to keep alive a practice so deeply repugnant to Western man's deepest convictions. 
   It may well be that it was unwillingness to depend on slave labor for their energy needs which turned the minds of medieval Europeans to search for alternative sources of energy, thus  sparking the Power Revolution of the Middle Age which, in turn, paved the way for the Industrial Revolution of the 19th century. 
   When slavery disappeared in the West, engineering advanced. Men began to harness the power of nature by utilizing water and wind as energy sources. The sailing ship, in particular, which replaced the slave-driven galley of antiquity, was vastly improved by medieval shipbuilders and became the first machine enabling man to control large amounts of inanimate energy. 
   The next important high-energy converter used by Europeans was gunpowder, an energy source far superior to the muscular strength to the strongest bowman or lancer. With ships that could navigate the high seas and arms that could outfire any hand weapon, Europe was now powerful enough to preempt for herself the vast empty areas of the Western hemisphere into which she poured her surplus populations to build new nations of European stock. With these ships and arms, she also gained political control over populous areas in Africa and Asia from which she drew the raw materials needed to speed her industrialization, thus complementing her naval and military dominance with economic and commercial supremacy. 
   And then he notes, when a low-energy society comes in contact with a high-energy society, the advantage always lies with the latter. The Europeans not only achieved standards of living vastly higher than those of the rest of the world, but they did this while their population was growing at rates far surpassing those of other peoples. In fact, they doubled their share of total world population in the short span of three centuries. From one-sixth in 1650, the people of European stock increased to almost one-third of world population by 1950. Clearly, with the industrialization of other parts of the world today, their populations are growing so that the European percentage of the world is not as high as it was 50 years ago. 
   Meanwhile, much of the rest of the world did not even keep energy sources in balance with population growth. Per capita energy consumption actually diminished in large areas. It is this difference in energy consumption which has resulted in an ever-widening gap between the one-third minority who live in high-energy countries and the two-thirds majority who live in low-energy areas. These so-called underdeveloped countries are now finding it far more difficult to catch up with the fortunate minority than it was for Europe to initiate transition from low energy to high-energy consumption. For one thing, their ratio of land to people is much less favorable. And we see this in much of Africa, Darfur, for instance, where the arable land is really very small compared to the people. And you see what that has done to their standard of living and to their culture. 
   For one thing, the ratio of land to people is much less favorable. For another, they have no outlet for surplice populations to ease the transitions since all the empty spaces have already been taken over by people of European stock.     
   This was a correct observation 50 years ago. 
   ``Almost all of today's low energy countries have a population density so great that it perpetuates dependence on intensive manual agriculture, which alone can yield barely enough food for their people. They do not have enough acreage per capita to justify using domestic animals or farm machinery, although better seeds, better soil management and better hand tools could bring some improvement.'' 
   I think he would be very pleased that today that has happened and they can live better, even with this high population density per arable land than they could then. 
   ``A very large part of their working population must nevertheless remain on the land, and this limits the amount of surplus energy that can be produced. Most of these countries must choose between using this small energy surplus to raise their very low standard of living or postpone present rewards for the sake of future gain while investing the surplus in new industries.'' 
   A very good explanation of how difficult it is for some of these undeveloped countries to enter the march of the developing countries. 
   ``The choice is difficult because there is no guarantee that today's denial may not prove to have been in vain. This is so because of the rapidity with which public health measures have reduced mortality rates, resulting in population growth as high or even higher than that of the high energy nations. Theirs is a bitter choice. It accounts for much of their anti-Western feeling and may well portend a prolonged period of world instability.'' 
   That is quite prophetic, isn't it? We see a period of world instability now, and how much has this energy imbalance contributed to it? 
   ``How closely energy consumption is related to the standard of living can be illustrated by the example of India.'' 
   Then he goes back to the India of 50 years ago, where the people lived really a hand-to-mouth existence, where their infant mortality rate was four times ours and life expectancy for people less than one-half of that of industrialized nations. Fortunately, India is now industrializing, and these numbers are changing. 
   He says, ``I think no further elaboration is needed to demonstrate the significance of energy resources for our future. Our civilization rests upon a technological base which requires enormous quantities of fossil fuels.'' 
   And this is a really significant statement. ``What assurance do we then have that our energy needs will continue to be supplied by fossil fuels.'' 
   Let me repeat the question again. What assurance do we then have that our energy needs will continue to be supplied by fossil fuels? ``The answer is, in the long run, none.'' 
   He saw this 50 years ago. There are a lot of people today in our country and in others also who, with the 50 years of history since Hyman Rickover, still don't understand that in the long run, there is no assurance that fossil fuels will meet our energy needs. 
   Then he goes on to say, ``The Earth is finite. Fossil fuels are not renewable. In this respect, our energy base differs from that of all earlier civilizations.'' 
   A major report done by SAIC called the ``Hirsch Report on Energy and the Energy Future'' says that the world has never faced a problem like this, and Hyman Rickover understood that 50 years ago. 
   ``In this respect, our energy base differs from that of all earlier civilizations. They could have maintained their energy supply by careful cultivation. We cannot. Fuel that has been burned is gone forever. Fuel is even more evanescent than metals. Metals too are non-renewable resources threatened with ultimate extinction, but something can be salvaged from scrap. Fuel leaves no scrap and there is nothing man can do to rebuild exhausted fossil fuel reserves.'' 
   Some of these quotes appear in the next chart. 
   ``They were created by solar energy 500 million years ago and took eons to grow to their present volume. In the face of the basic fact that fossil fuel reserves are finite, the exact length of time these reserves will last is important in only one respect.'' 
   Wow, I wish that our leaders could read this. 
   ``The longer they last, the more time that we have to invent ways of living off renewable or substitute energy sources and to adjust our economy to the vast changes which we can expect from such a shift.'' 
   And in spite of increasing evidence from the engineering and scientific world, a large percent of our people and, unfortunately, of our leadership, are effectively in denial of this. 
   Then this next paragraph is just priceless: ``Fossil fuels resemble capital in the bank. A prudent and responsible parent will use his capital sparingly in order to pass on to his children as much as possible of his inheritance. A selfish and irresponsible parent will squander it in riotous living and care not one whit how his offspring will fare.'' 
   He is using this and talking about energy and our relationship to energy and how we are using it. 
   When we found this incredible wealth under the ground, and Admiral Rickover understood how incredible it was, we really should have stopped and asked ourselves the question, what can we do with this to provide the most good for the most people for the longest time? That clearly is not what we did. With no more responsibility than the kids who found the cookie jar or  the hog who found the feed room door open, we just have been pigging out, and we want to continue to do that. 
   They asked me to vote to drill offshore and in ANWR, and I asked them, if you could pump ANWR tomorrow, what would you do the day after tomorrow? And there will be a day after tomorrow. I have 10 children, 15 grandchildren and two great grandchildren, so I really relate to this description of a selfish and irresponsible parent. 
   One of the writers has noted that future generations looking back on us may ask themselves, how could the monsters have done that? How could they have taken this incredible wealth without any thought for tomorrow and just gone through it? 
   Now the urge is just to find what little remains as quickly as we can. Where is the moral responsibility for our kids and our grandkids? Where is the moral responsibility for generations yet unborn? 
   ``Engineers whose work familiarizes them with energy statistics; far-seeing industrialists who know that energy is the principal factor which must enter into all planning for the future; responsible governments who realize that the well-being of their citizens and the political power of their countries depend on adequate energy supplies; all these have begun to be concerned about energy resources.'' 
   Boy, if that was true then, why, something happened, because far too few people today are concerned about energy resources. 
   ``In this country,'' he says, then 50 years ago, ``in this country especially, many studies have been made in the last few years seeking to discover accurate information on fossil fuel reserves and foreseeable fuel needs. Statistics involving the human factor, of course, are never exact. The size of useable reserves depends on the ability of engineers to improve the efficiency of fuel extraction and use.'' 
   The next chart is one that I will spend just a moment on, because it really amplifies what he is saying. This is referred to as the oil chart, and you can get a very large one if you do a Google search for that, and this is simply an insert in it. 
   What this shows in the bars is the discovery of oil, and anyone who has been through a seventh grade math class knows that if you add up all of these little bars, you will have determined the total amount of oil that we have found. Indeed, if you make a smooth curve over them, the area under that curve will be the total amount of oil that we have discovered. The heavy black line here represents the oil that we have used. 
   Now, one thing is certain: You cannot use oil that you haven't found. So what will the future look like? 
   You can extrapolate from this chart, which shows that ever since about 1980 we have progressively used more and more oil than we have found. The discoveries of oil have been falling off. You see they started back there in the 1960s or 1970s. There were very large discoveries, and they have fallen off ever since then. 
   Now, there are those who would have you believe that we are going to find much more oil as all the oil which still exists, all the recoverable oil which still exists, and that is about half of what was ever found. This represents all the oil that was ever found, and the area under this use curve up, until this point, represents about half of that area under the curve. 
   So we have used about half of all the oil we have found, and there are some who would have you to believe that we will find as much more oil as all the oil which still exists that is recoverable. 
   ``The size of usable reserves depends on the ability of engineers to improve the efficiency of fuel extraction and use. It also depends on discovery of new methods to obtain energy from inferior resources at cost which can be borne without unduly depressing the standard of living. Estimates of future needs in turn rely heavily on population figures, which must always allow for a large element of uncertainty, particularly as man reaches a point where he is more and more able to control his own way of life.'' 
   The next chart shows the estimates made by a number of different sources as to when we will reach that point where we can no longer increase the amount of oil that we are producing per day. As you can see, some of them have enormous uncertainties. Some have very little uncertainty. They are pretty sure when it is going to occur. 
   As you notice, the vast majority of them believe it is going to occur before 2020. Indeed, 35, I think, of the 45 oil-producing nations in the world have already peaked, and you may have noted an interesting article, upper right hand of the Wall Street Journal a week or two ago that the big oil field, the second largest oil field in the world, in Mexico, has declined 20 percent in production in the last 2 years. 
   ``Current estimates of fossil fuel reserves vary to an astonishing degree.'' 
   It was true then; it is true now. 
   ``In part this is because the results differ greatly if cost of extraction is disregarded; or if in calculating how long reserves will last, population growth is not taken into consideration; or, equally important, not enough weight is given to increased fuel consumption required to process inferior substitute metals. We are rapidly approaching the time when exhaustion of better grade metals will force us to turn to poorer grades, requiring in most cases greater expenditure of energy per unit of metal.'' 
   That really hasn't seemed to matter, simply because we have had so much energy available. The best iron ores in our country today I understand are the taconite ores with one-half of one percent iron. In years gone by, our iron ores were so rich in iron that you could literally smelt them in a backyard smelter. If you drive up into Frederick County just a few miles above my home, you will come to Catoctin Furnace and the hills up there in northern Frederick County were denuded making charcoal for that furnace. But we couldn't do that today, because the grade of iron is much too poor to smelt in a furnace like that. 
   The next chart shows a very interesting one, and I just want to read his comments relative to this: 
   ``But the most significant distinction between optimistic and pessimistic fuel reserve statistics is that the optimists generally speak of the immediate future, the next 25 years or so, while the pessimists thinks in terms of a century from now. A century or even two is a short span in the history of a great people. It seems sensible to me to take a long view, even if this involves facing unpleasant facts.'' 
   What we have here is a very interesting chart. A little later, if time permits, we will read his discussion of the growth of civilization and how it is rapidly expanding now. 
   Actually, if this were a chart of the growth of civilization, it would not look much different than this, because civilizations have grown as energy has become available. This goes back only about 400 years. We could extend this line back here, this is burning of wood for fuel, we could extend it back another couple of centuries and you would still have about the same population. Very low population. 
   Then we discovered the industrial age with wood, and then coal, and then look what happened when we found gas and oil? The energy production just exploded, and, with that, the population. He has a very interesting discussion of population in a moment or two. 
   I want you to note on this graph what happened in the 1970s. The rate of rise of that curve before the 1970s gave us a stunning statistic. Each decade, the world was using as much oil as it had used in all of previous history. If you think about that, what that means is when you have used half your oil, just 10 years of oil at that use rate remains. 
   Now we are doing much better than that now, and you can see how this has tipped over and is following a different curve. 
   ``For it is an unpleasant fact that according to our best estimates, total fossil fuel reserves recoverable at not over twice today's unit cost are likely to run out at sometime between the years 2000 and 2050.'' 
   So he was predicting that we would reach this point sometime in this half a century.     
   If present standard of living and population growth rates are taken into account, oil and natural gas will disappear first, coal last. There will be coal left in the Earth, but it will be so difficult to mine that energy costs will rise to economically intolerable  heights so that it would then become necessary either to discover new energy sources or to lower standards of living drastically. 
   For more than 100 years, we have stoked ever growing numbers, and this is a poetic the way explains this. For more than 100 years, we have stoked ever-growing numbers of machines with coal; for 50 years we have pumped gas and oil into our factories, cars, trucks, ships, planes and homes without giving a thought to the future. Occasionally, the voice of a Cassandra has been raised only to be quickly silenced when a lucky discovery revised estimates of our oil reserves upward or a new coal field was found in some remote spot. Fewer such lucky discoveries can be expected in the future, especially in industrialized countries where extensive mapping of resources has been done. Yet the popularizers of scientific news would have us believe there is no cause for anxiety, that reserves will last thousands of years, and that before they run out, science will have produced miracles. Our past history and security have given us the sentimental belief that the things we fear will never really happen, that everything turns out right in the end, but prudent men will reject these tranquilizers, he says, and prefer to face the facts so they can plan intelligently for the needs of their posterity. Wouldn't it be nice if we were doing that? 
   Looking to the future from the mid-20th century, we cannot feel overly confident that present high standards of living will of a certainty continue through the next century and beyond. Fossil fuel costs will begin to rise as the best and most accessible reserves are exhausted, and more effort will be required to obtain the same energy from remaining reserves. 
   I suspect oil was $2 or $3 a barrel when he wrote this. Today it is over $60 a barrel. 
   It is likely also that fossil fuel costs will soon definitely be more expensive. Can we feel certain when economically recoverable fossil fuels are gone, science will have learned how to maintain a high standard of living on renewable energy sources? 
   I believe it would be wise to assume that the principal renewable fuel sources which we can expect to tap before fossil fuels run out will supply only 7 to 15 percent of our energy needs. 
   I would like to look at the next chart because he was really prophetic in what he said in 1957. 
   Here we have a chart that shows where we get our energy from. I use the analogy of a couple whose grandparents have died and left them a large inheritance and they now have established a quite lavish lifestyle where 85 percent of the money they spend comes from the inheritance and only 15 percent earnings. They note with their age and the amount of inheritance and the way they are spending it, it is going to run out before they retire. They either have to spend less or make more or a combination. I use that 85-15 because it is pretty precisely where we are relative to energy. So 85 or 86 percent of our energy comes from fossil fuels: Coal, petroleum and natural gas. And only 15 percent of it comes from what they call renewables, something other than these fossil fuels. More than half comes from nuclear here. So it leaves only 7 percent to come from the true renewables. And those that we will have to increasingly depend on in the future, and this is a 2000 chart, solar was 1 percent of 7 percent. That is 0.07 percent. So today it is 5 or 6 times bigger. Big deal. It is still less than 1 percent. 
   Wood waste products is from paper industry and lumbering. Waste energy is a really great idea, but remember that these enormous piles of waste are the result of profligate use of fossil fuels. In a fossil fuel deficient world, there will be diminished piles of waste. Wind can produce electricity at 2.5 cents a kilowatt hour, growing roughly at 30 percent a year, but when you start at 0.07 percent, it takes a lot of years to matter much. 
   Nearly half of all of this renewable comes from something we cannot increase in our country, that is major hydro. Micro hydro, where you are using energy from small streams, with small turbines, some guess it may produce as much as this, but that is thousands of these streams and energy produced locally for a home or a couple of homes. We cannot increase conventional hydroelectric because we have probably dammed up all the rivers we should have and maybe some we shouldn't have. 
   Alcohol fuel 1 percent, 0.07 percent. I would like to note a recent article in the Washington Post and I think I have a chart. Let's put that chart up. 
   This is the energy produced from corn by converting it into ethanol. I refer to the bottom first because this points out something that very few people know. Farmers know it because they are paying an enormous amount for nitrogen fertilizer. It is almost all produced from natural gas. Almost half of the energy used to produce a bushel of corn comes from nitrogen fertilizer, ordinarily produced from natural gas and little of it is in this country. It is produced where natural gas is stranded; that is, there is natural gas but not very many people to use it, and it is hard to transport. So they are using it to produce nitrogen fertilizer. 
   This shows a comparison what you get from petroleum and what you get from corn ethanol. They are noting here that you get 0.75 million Btus for every one that went in. This recent article in the Washington Post said if we use all of our corn to produce ethanol, that is no tortillas for Mexicans and no corn for our pigs and chickens, all of it for ethanol, and you discounted for the fossil fuel input, which this says is 75 percent, they used 80 percent, some would say it is 100 percent, we use as much energy if you cost all of the energy that goes into producing as you get out of it, but the article assumed 80 percent, that it would replace 2.4 percent of our gasoline. That is discounting it for the fossil fuel input. And they noted if you tuned up your car and put air in the tires, you would save as much gas. 
   So this points out some of the challenges we have. This is because of the enormous energy density in these fossil fuels. 
   One barrel of oil has the energy equivalent of the work output of 12 people for a year. That means in terms of work output, the energy you get from these fossil fuels from oil, represents hiring a man for $10 for a whole year. No wonder we have such a magnificent quality of life with energy this relatively cheap. Gas at $3 a gallon is still cheaper than water in the grocery store if you buy water in small bottles. 
   My next chart is one that Hyman Rickover referred to as more promise for nuclear fuels. I want to spend just a moment on some of his concerns for the sources of energy that we are lauding today. He says wood fuel and foreign waste are dubious as substitutes because of growing food requirements to be anticipated. He anticipated the tension between food and energy. In just 2 months last year, corn almost doubled from $2.11 a bushel to $4.08 a bushel, and tortillas went up in price for the Mexicans and my dairy farmers are going bankrupt because of the price of feed for their cattle. 
   Land is more likely to be used for food production than for tree crops. He was thinking of biomass. Farm waste may be more urgently needed to fertilize the soil than to fuel machines. 
   There is a lot of hype today about biomass, and it is worth noting that you will never get more energy from any biological source than you can by burning it. What we do in the other ways of using it is sometimes just a slow process of burning it, but you end up with the same product. You end up with carbon dioxide and water. 
   Our topsoil is our topsoil because of organic material, and his caution was if you keep removing this organic material, you are mining the soil and you will end up with poorer soil and not enough food production. 
   Wind and water power can furnish only a very small percentage of our energy needs. That was true then because we didn't have the big wind machines we have today that produce electricity at 2.5 cents a kilowatt hour, but that is such a tiny percentage of the total production it will take a long time to ramp up. 
   More promising is the outlook for fossil fuels. These are not properly speaking renewable energy sources, and let's take a look at this chart. We have finite sources here, and actually the second bullet looks at nuclear energy which is not really finite. Fissionable uranium may be. There is a limited supply of that in the world. That  fuels the light water reactors that essentially every nation today uses for its electricity production. In France, it is 75 percent of their electricity. 
   In spite of that, we are still the largest nuclear energy producer in the world. It is only 20 percent of our electricity, while in France it is 75 percent of their electricity. We are so much bigger economy than France, quantity-wise, we are the biggest producer of energy from nuclear today. 
   Let's look at the finite resources which he talks about. The tar sands, the oil shales, coal. There is more potential energy in the tar sands in Canada than all the oil reserves in the world. So why then aren't we complacent about the future because there is potentially so much energy there? And there may be more energy in the tides. The Moon lifts the whole ocean 2 feet a day. The problem is harnessing the energy, and we have a similar problem harnessing the energy in the tar sands. They are getting about a million barrels a day, a bit over 1 percent of the 84-85 million barrels a day of oil production. They have a shovel which lifts 100 tons. It dumps it into a truck that hauls 400 tons. They haul it to a cooker which I am told uses more energy from natural gas than they get out of the oil. The gas is stranded so it is not worth much in dollars and cents, and they are producing oil at about $18 to $25 a barrel and it is selling for over $60, so it is economically productive to do. But they know this is not sustainable because they will run out of the gas, and now they are thinking of building a nuclear power plant. But if you think of this as a vein, it is largely surface and they can do surface mining. But it will shortly duck under a heavy overlay, and they will have to develop a technology to develop it in situ, and they don't know how doable that is. There has been some experiments in doing that by Shell Oil Company. They believe it will be several years before they know if it is economically feasible for getting energy. So there are potentially huge amounts of oil available in the tar sands and the oil shales, but the big problem is the difficulty in getting them out. 
   We have a chart that I would like to look at that looks at coal because everybody is going to tell you not to worry about nature because we have got so much coal. Okay, we don't have that chart. 
   Let me talk about the coal chart. We have 250 years of coal. That is true at current use rates. But if you increase the use of coal only 2 percent, that 250 years drops to 85 years.     
   Well, a 2 percent increase doubles in 35 years. It's four times bigger in 70 years, and it's eight times bigger in 105 years, and we're talking about 250 years. So now our 250 years of coal shrinks to only 85 years if we are increasing its use only 2 percent, and we will certainly have to increase the use more than that as we find less and less readily available oil and gas. 
   But for most uses, coal is not very convenient. So we are going to have to convert it to a liquid or a gas, and that will use some of the energy of coal. So now it shrinks to 50 years, but the reality in today's world is that energy is fungible, particularly liquid fuel energy, and we're going to have to share that with the world. There's not much of a way not to share that with the world. If you do that, since we use 25 percent of the world's energy, that now reduces it to 12 1/2 years. 
   Be very cautious when somebody tells you about a resource that will last so many years at current use rates. It was Albert Einstein I think who said that the most powerful force in the universe was the power of compound interest. 
   We are running out of time, and I wanted to get to another quote here from Admiral Rickover's speech because he was so prophetic in his speech. ``In the 8,000 years from the beginning of history to the year 2000 A.D. world population will have grown from 10 million to 4 billion.'' He kind of missed that. We are what, over 6 billion today, but that is an enormous growth. ``With 90 percent of that growth taking place during the last 5 percent of that period.'' It would be more than 95 percent because we are now over 6 billion rather than 4 billion. ``It took the first 3,000 years of recorded history to accomplish the first doubling of population, 100 years for the last doubling, but the next doubling will require only 50 years.'' Matter of fact, it occurred in less than 50 years. 
   And then another chart from Admiral Rickover's talk: ``One final thought I should like to leave with you. High-energy consumption has always been a prerequisite of political power. The tendency is for political power to be concentrated in an ever-smaller number of countries. Ultimately, the Nation which controls the largest energy resources will become dominant. If we give thought to the problem of energy resources, if we act wisely and in time to conserve what we have and prepare well for necessary future changes, we shall insure this dominant position for our own country.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, I wonder if Admiral Rickover would think that we have done that. ``If we give thought to the problem of energy resources, if we act wisely and in time to conserve what we have and prepare well for necessary future changes, we shall insure this dominant position for our own country.'' That's the dominant position where you control a lot of the energy. We have only 2 percent of the world's energy. We use 25 percent of the world's energy. In a chart which shows the 10 largest oil containing countries we're not even near that. 
   Our oil companies, which pump a fair amount of oil, own very little oil. They are pumping somebody else's oil. The oil resources which we own in this country are very small. The largest, 70 percent, of all the resources of course are in the Middle East and northern Africa. 
   As I read this talk from Admiral Rickover, I was reminded of how wise and farseeing he was. He says, for instance, ``It will be wise to face up to the possibility of the ultimate disappearance of automobiles, trucks, buses and tractors.'' 
   Let me read that paragraph. That's a pretty interesting paragraph. ``Transportation, the lifeblood of all technically advanced civilizations, seems to be assured, once we have borne the initial high cost of electrifying railroads and replacing buses with streetcars or interurban electric trains.'' 
   He's talking about nuclear energy, which could be huge, compared to the rate at which we are using now which produces electricity. Of course, today we don't have much that runs on electricity. We have torn out all of our streetcar lines. We're now replacing what we call light rail, I think that's what streetcars were, and we are using railroads. Very little for transportation of people. 
   ``But, unless science can perform the miracle of synthesizing automobile fuel from some energy source as yet unknown,'' and I thought here of our corn ethanol and we were going to get so much from that. That article says if we turn all the corn into ethanol, discounted it for fossil fuel input, it would displace 2.4 percent of our gasoline. 
   Well, I commend this reading of Admiral Hyman Rickover's speech to anyone who's interested in energy. He was really farseeing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Madam Speaker, this is the 22nd time, I believe, that I have come here to the well of the House to talk about a subject which I think will be the overarching concern of our world for the next decades and several decades beyond that. That subject is energy and specifically the energy that we get from oil. 
   As an illustration of the problems we face, I have here a map of the world as it would be drawn if each country was sized relative to the amount of oil reserves that it had. So this is the world according to oil. And you see here Saudi Arabia, and it would swallow up the United States. How many times would it swallow us up, a dozen, 15 times? 
   Notice the incredible wealth of oil in the Middle East. Venezuela looms, what, two, three times the size of the United States as far as reserves of oil are concerned. The little United Arab Emirates, you can hardly find them on a map. They are kind of a little pinpoint on a usual map, and there they are six, eight times larger than the United States with their reserves of oil. The famed reserves of Russia up there. Notice that the United Arab Emirates have more oil than Russia has. And Saudi Arabia, of course, and Iraq. And little Kuwait, a little province that Saddam Hussein thought ought to belong to Iraq when he invaded it more than a decade ago, has many times as much oil as the United States and more oil than Russia has. 
   Remember this map when we put the next map of the world up here because this is an interesting map. And this is a map with the continents, the countries drawn relative to their actual size. And you will notice here the little symbols that represent several things, and one of them is oil that China has bought around the world. And this is Unocal, which they almost bought in our country. Everywhere you see this little symbol, the Chinese have bought rights to oil. They are scouring the world for oil. 
   And the next chart shows a statement by Condoleezza Rice, who recognized this. And this is a pretty interesting statement made by our Secretary of State: ``We do have to do something about the energy problem.'' 
   Thank you. I am pleased that you recognize that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. We have about 1 trillion barrels of recoverable known reserves. The undiscovered reserves are going to be a relatively small fraction of that. If we could pump those undiscovered reserves tomorrow, what would we do the day after tomorrow? And there will be a day after tomorrow. 
   I have 10 kids, 16 grandkids and two great grandkids. We are leaving them a horrendous debt, although not with my votes. Wouldn't it be nice to leave them a little oil? I am not anxious to find and exploit these undiscovered reserves. 
   I really would like to vote for this bill, because we desperately need an energy bill. The world, and particularly the United States, faces a real challenge on energy in the future. I cannot vote for this bill primarily because of the corn ethanol mandate. 
   A recent article in The Economist noted that our use of corn for ethanol doubled the price of corn about 1 year ago. Farmers then moved lands that would have been in soybeans and wheat to corn. We have now further increased the cost of corn, and we have increased the cost of soybeans and wheat the world around. One of the members of the United Nations said that what we have done is a crime against humanity. And the effect we have had on gasoline use has been absolutely trifling. The National Academy of Sciences says if we converted all of our corn to ethanol and discounted for fossil fuel input, it would displace 2.4 percent of our gasoline. 
   Mr. Speaker, this really represents one of those times, as the old farmer says, that the juice ain't worth the squeezing. We can do better. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Today oil, I think, went to its highest price ever, about $140 a barrel. So all of America is now thinking about energy and oil, and I would like to start this evening's discussion by referring to some comments made in a speech 51 years ago, the 14th day of this past May, by Hyman Rickover, the father of our nuclear submarine, to a group of physicians in Saint Paul, Minnesota. 
   I would encourage everyone to pull this speech up, a Google search for ``Rickover'' and ``energy speech'' and it will pop up. Or you can go to our Web site, and you will find a link there to it. 
   Hyman Rickover was a very perceptive person, and every time I read this speech I am again amazed at how prophetic and insightful he was. He says in this speech 51 years ago, Remember now, there is nothing man can do to rebuild exhausted fossil fuel reserves. They were created, he says, by solar energy 500 million years ago and took eons to grow to their present volume. In the face of the basic fact that fossil fuel reserves are finite, the exact length of time these reserves will last is important in only one respect--and this is 51 years ago--the longer they last, the more time do we have to invent ways of living off renewable or substitute energy sources and to adjust our economy to the vast changes which we can expect from such a shift. This was counseled 51 years ago. 
   What he's saying is that it's obvious that oil cannot be forever. That it is finite; one day it will run out. He noted that at this time we were about 100 years into the age of oil, which he called ``this golden age,'' and he noted that how long it lasted was important in only one regard: that the longer it lasted, the more time would we have to plan an orderly transition to other sources of energy which will, of necessity, be renewable sources of energy. 
   Then this last little paragraph here is one that I really like. It is so perceptive and so prophetic of what our attitude has been. Fossil fuels, he says, resemble capital in the bank. A prudent and responsible parent, that is the leaders of the world's countries, will use this capital sparingly in order to pass on to his children as much as possible of his inheritance. A selfish and irresponsible parent will squander it in riotous living and not care one wit how his offspring will fare. 
   The next chart is an additional quote from this same speech. He says, I suggest this is a good time to think soberly about our responsibilities to our descendents. We really haven't done that, have we? I have 10 kids and 16 grandkids and two great-grandkids, and I think a lot about our responsibility to our descendents, those who will ring out the fossil fuel age. Hyman Rickover noted that in 8,000 years of recorded history that the age of oil would be but a blip in the history of man. 
   We might give a break to these youngsters by cutting fuel and metal consumption so as to provide a safer margin for the necessary adjustments which eventually must be made in a world without fossil fuels. 
   Our behavior has in no way indicated that we recognize the inevitability of reaching a maximum production of oil and then less and less and less oil until finally there is none of it left. Obviously, it is not infinite. Obviously, one day it will be gone. Where are we? Where are we in this long sequence of events from the discovery of oil, its massive use, and finally the waning use of oil until we finally transition to other fossil fuels? 
   The next chart shows what's happened in our country, and we need to go back 52 years ago to kind of put this in perspective because 52 years ago, the 8th day of March, in San Antonio, Texas, an oil geologist by the name of M. King Hubbert gave a speech to a group of executives and other oil people assembled there in San Antonio. And he told them that in just 14 years, the United States--which was then, I think, king of oil, producing more oil, consuming more oil, exporting more oil than any other country in the world--he said in just 14 years, our country is going to reach its maximum production of oil. And after that, no matter what we did, the production of oil was going to fall off, as you can see from the chart here which shows the production of oil in our country. 
   And he was predicting the lower 48, Texas and the rest of the U.S.A., and to him the rest of the U.S.A. was the rest of the 48 States. And in 1956 at this point he was predicting that in 1970, just 14 years later, that we would reach a maximum oil production. After that, it would fall off. 
   Now, we found a lot of oil in Alaska, and we found some oil in the Gulf of Mexico, and we learned to get more natural gas liquids; but in spite of this huge discovery in Alaska and through that 4-foot pipeline--and I've been to Dead Horse, to Prudhoe Bay and seen the beginning of that pipeline--through that for a number of years flowed 25 percent of our domestic production. 
   In spite of that, except for this little blip, it's been down, down, down. And now in the lower 48 we produce well less than half of the oil that we did in 1970. 
   We have tried very hard to make M. King Hubbert out a liar. We have drilled more oil wells than all the rest of the world put together. We are really, really good at finding oil. We're really, really good at pumping oil. 
   The next chart shows that another prediction M. King Hubbert made has, in fact, almost certainly come true. In 1979, that's just 9 years after we peaked in our country, using his same analysis technique, he predicted that the world would be peaking about now. 
   Just a word about his analysis and how he did it. It's no magic. He observed that in our country that an individual oil field increased its production until it reached a maximum production, at which time about half the oil had been pumped, and then the last half of the oil, as is reasonable, was harder to get and so less and less was pumped. So you had a little bell curve produced by that. 
   And he reasoned that if he knew how many little bell curves there were in our country and how many more fields we would find, that he could then predict when we would be reaching our maximum oil production. And using that technique, he predicted correctly that we would reach our maximum production in 1970, just 14 years after he made that prediction. 
   Using that same technique, he looked at the world and the world fields and all of the countries producing oil, and he calculated that we should be reaching the world maximum production, called ``peak oil,'' about now. 
   On this chart are two curves. These are data collected by the two entities in the world that probably do the best job of keeping track of the production and consumption of oil, and of course they're the same. We use what we produce. This is the IEA, it's an international organization, and the EIA, the Energy Information Administration, a part of our Department of Energy. And both of these, as you can see, have oil production essentially flat for the last 36 months. 
   Now, what's happened with this flat oil production for the last 36 months is  shown by this lower curve here, and obviously this is a bit old because this shows oil at only $95 a barrel. I didn't make it all that long ago, this chart. It now would be well off the top. I think it hit $140 a barrel today. Well, that's what happens when you have a static supply and an increasing demand. The price goes up and up. 
   The next chart, and this is a really information-filled chart, and if you had only one chart to use, this would be the chart because it has so much information in it. The bars here show the discoveries of oil and the year on the abscissa here on which they were discovered. And you see that we were finding a lot of oil back in the 1940s. By the way, I can remember when gasoline was kind of a little gas war, and it was kind of on sale. It was $6 per gallon. Another age, wasn't it?     
   Then we found a bunch in the 1950s, and boy, it really peaked out in about the 1970s, which is interestingly the time that M. King Hubbert said that we would reach our maximum oil production. 
   And then ever since then, it's been down, down, down, down, down, and that's with ever better techniques for discovering oil. We now have 3-D seismic. We have computer modeling. And still our discoveries of oil, year by year, on average have gone down, down, down. 
   The solid black line here represents the consumption of oil, and we're going to see this curve on several of the other charts that we're going to show. And this shows a very interesting exponential growth through the Carter years, with a stunning statistic. 
   Every decade up through the Carter years, we used as much oil as we had used in all of previous history. Now, think about that for a moment. Had we continued on that path, when you have used up half of your oil, you would have just 10 years of oil remaining. But fortunately, we didn't think it was so fortunate at the time. Fortunately, we had the Arab oil embargo price spike hikes in the 1970s, and a worldwide recession resulted from that, and there was actually a decrease in the use of oil. It actually fell off. 
   Following that, we really put some effort into efficiency. Your refrigerator is now two or three times more efficient than it was then, and most of the energy using things, your refrigerator, your air conditioner, are very much more efficient than they were then. So now the rate of growth is very much slower, as you can see. Notice what would have happened had we not had that shock and put some effort into efficiency. This curve would have gone off the top of the chart here. 
   Well, you know that if you integrate under a curve, the area under the curve represents, in this case, the volume used. You can understand that, if you note that, you could round off these discoveries by putting a line like so, and the area under that line would represent the totality of the discoveries. So the area under this line represents how much we have used. 
   From about 1980 on, we have found less and less on the average each year, and we've been using more, but we had a lot of reserves back here that we hadn't used. So now we are dipping into these reserves, and we're filling in this area here with reserves from back here. 
   Now, yes, here are some reserves, and we'll find some more. There's a lot of dispute about how much more we're going to find, but I will tell you that most of the world's experts believe that we have probably found about 95 percent of everything that we will find, and the new finds are really interesting. The big one in the Gulf of Mexico, for instance, was under 7,000 feet of water, 30,000 feet of rock, and they haven't yet started to exploit it with oil at $140 barrel because it's very hard to get here. 
   Now, what will the future look like? Well, you're going to have to make some guesses and educated guesses as to how much more we're going to find. Those who put this chart together think that on the average it will be like so, but obviously, it won't be as nice, smooth like that. It will be up and down, but on the average like that. I'd draw the line a little lower actually if I were averaging, a little lower than that. 
   Then we have all of these reserves back here we haven't used, and so we now, in addition to what we find in the future, we can use more because we can use them back here. And so we will be going down, down, down. If we go up, up, up, by the way, you're soon going to run out of these and fall off of a cliff, but fortunately, geology won't let us do that because we can only get it so fast, which is our problem today. We aren't able to produce oil any faster than we are now producing it. Within some limits, we can control what the future looks like with enhanced oil recovery and so forth, but one thing you cannot do is pump oil that is not there. 
   I'd like now to return to the next chart to another quote from Hyman Rickover. He says: Whether this golden age, this age of oil which he called the golden age, will continue depends entirely upon our ability to keep energy supplies in balance with the needs of our growing population. 
   That is precisely what we have not done. You saw in one of the previous charts, the demand has grown and the supply is static, and when that happens, of course, you have an increase in price, and the price has gone up from $10 a barrel a relatively few years ago to $140 a barrel today. 
   The next chart is from one of four studies that our government has paid for. This was the first of those four studies and the biggest. This one was done by the big SAIC corporation, Science Applications International Corporation, a huge, very well-regarded company. And the study was headed by Robert Hirsch, and so this is called the Hirsch Report, and they present a chart there which is a very interesting one. 
   For reasons that are difficult to understand, some, including some in our Energy Department, are predicting that we will find as much more oil as all the reserves that are yet to be pumped. And it's a really interesting story how they got there to that conclusion. But they're predicting that we will find almost as much oil as we now know exists that we can pump. 
   Most of the world's experts--and this number will be up and down a little bit--but most of the world's experts believe that the recoverable oil at the end of the day will be about 2 trillion barrels. This table has it at 2.248 trillion barrels, roughly 2 trillion barrels. They're predicting that we'll find enough more to represent 3 trillion barrels. That's a lot more oil to find from that previous chart we showed. You would have to reverse the trends of the last 30 years, where it's been down, down, down, and now you're going to reverse that and it's going to go up? Laherrere says that what they're proposing is absolutely implausible. Laherrere is a French expert in this area. 
   But I show you this chart because even if we found that much more oil, the maximum production of oil would be pushed out only, according to this chart, to 2016. That curve that I told you you would see again and again, the rapid increase in use through the Carter years, the oil price spike shocks of the 1970s, the reduced demand worldwide, and then the slower rate of growth now, they're predicting a 2 percent growth. This is 2 percent. 
   By the way, exponential growth, Albert Einstein was asked what the next great force in the universe was going to be after nuclear energy, and he said the greatest force in the universe is the power of compound interest. You see, 2 percent growth, and that's so small that our stock market really doesn't like that, and it begins to go negative with 2 percent growth. But 2 percent growth doubles in 35 years. It's four times bigger in 70 years. It's eight times bigger in 105 years. And it's 16 times bigger in 140 years. So even very modest growth like 2 percent, gee, that's not much, but it's 16 times bigger in 140 years. And we still expect our children's children to be around in 140 years. 
   Now, this chart has another illustration on it. Suppose we're able to use some enhanced oil recovery and really suck it out fast, and you now continue up to 2037. You've now pushed the peak over to 2037, and then you fall off a cliff. Again, you cannot pump what is not there. 
   I will tell you that this is most unlikely to happen. I do not think the technologies are there to pump the oil that fast, but the point that I wanted to make in this chart was that even if  we found as much more oil as all of the oil that's now known to be there that can be pumped, it would push the peak out--this chart says only to 2016. That's not very out. That's just around the corner. 
   As a matter of fact, that Hirsch Report said that unless you anticipated peak oil by two decades you would have some economic consequences. If you anticipated it by only a decade, you would have very serious economic consequences. So even if this is true, even if this is true that we find as much more oil as all the oil that we currently know is out there to be pumped, it would push it out only to 2016. So we should have started an aggressive program of renewables a couple of years ago if we're going to avoid serious economic consequences. 
   The next chart is just another chart showing this same phenomenon, how little additional time you get with enormously increased discoveries of oil, and you need to think about this when you're thinking about pumping the oil in ANWR and on the Outer Continental Shelf and under our public lands. If ANWR has 10 billion barrels of oil--and that's the 50 percent probability. The 95 percent probability is considerably less than that, and 95 percent is more probable obviously than 50 percent probability. But suppose it has the 50 percent probability, that oil would last the world only 120 days. Now, I say the world because under present circumstances it is impossible not to share your oil with the world, because if we use oil that we produce, then the oil we might have bought from Venezuela or Saudi Arabia or Iran, someone else can buy. So, in reality, you are sharing your oil with the world. 
   Well, the only way not to do that, by the way, is to own so much oil that you don't need to get any from the outside, and then to use it all for yourself, even though others may need the oil more than you. Obviously we're not going to be doing that because we have only 2 percent of the known reserves of oil, and we use 25 percent of the world's oil. 
   This chart shows that roughly 2 trillion again. They show it as 1.92 trillion, and they show the peak occurring about 2010 roughly now with that. But if we find, again, this huge amount of additional oil and it goes up to 2.93 trillion, roughly the 3 trillion that you saw in the previous one, that will move the peak out only to about this point. It's a little different in their calculation, how far it moves the peak out, but all of this is within the lifetime of our children. And then they think that we will find a lot of unconventional oil. In a little bit I think we'll have a chance to talk about some of that unconventional oil. We may get a lot of that. We may not get much of that. 
   There's another dimension in this whole discussion that I have a couple of charts on, and the next chart introduces this, and that is the geopolitical implications of where we are. 
   This was a statement by Condoleezza Rice, our Secretary of State in 2006: We have to do something about the energy problem. I can tell you that nothing has really taken me aback more as Secretary of State than the way that the politics of energy is, I will use the word, ``warping'' diplomacy around the world. We have simply got to do something about the warping now of diplomatic effort by the all-out rush for energy supply. 
   And I'm sure that she had in her mind when she said that the next chart, which is a really interesting chart. And this shows the world according to oil, and this shows you what our world would look like if the size of each country was determined by the amount of oil that it had. 
   And you see here that Saudi Arabia really dominates the landscape, and it should because Saudi Arabia has, we believe, 22 percent of all the reserves in all the world. And notice the countries very near them: Iraq, tiny little Kuwait, Iran. These are one, two, three and four in terms of supply of oil in reserves in all the world. United Arab Emirates, you almost have to have a magnifying glass to find them on the map, and look how much oil they have. Here we are, United States, bunch up there in Canada and the Lower 48 here. We only have 2 percent of the oil in the world. This represents one-fiftieth of the land mass here.     
   And our biggest supplier of oil is Canada. Our third biggest supplier of oil--it was the second until a few months ago--is Mexico. And notice, they have less oil than we. As a matter of fact, together I don't know that they have any more oil than we have. They're exporters, because in Canada there aren't very many people, and in Mexico the people are too poor to buy the oil, and so they're able to export it. Now our second largest supplier is Saudi Arabia. Notice, Venezuela dwarfs everything else in this hemisphere. 
   Another really interesting thing to look at is the size of China and India in this ``World According to Oil.'' Here they are, China and India; about 2.3 or 4 billion people total, having less oil than the United States, with a booming economy. The economy in China, the last data I saw, growing at 11.7 percent. Japan in its heyday never grew faster than that, and notice the tiny amount of oil that they have. 
   Notice Russia. Russia is one of the largest exporters in the world today. They don't have the most oil by any means, but they're very aggressively pumping their oil and exporting it. And they are considerably larger, many times larger than we, and they have a much smaller population than we have. Well, very interesting map. And this points out some of the geopolitical realities in the world. 
   The next chart shows China's response to this reality. China has seen this ``World According to Oil,'' and this is their response to it. This shows our globe, and it shows the countries on it. And these little symbols represent who is buying the oil. Now, there are a few dollar signs, not very many, as you see. And there are a lot of these symbols that represent China. As a matter of fact, they almost bought Unocal in our country. Remember all of the hysteria over that possibility a couple of years ago? 
   Look what they're doing in the Middle East. Look what they're doing in northern Africa. Look what they're doing in Indonesia and in Russia. They're buying oil all over the world. At the same time, thinking about this geopolitical picture, at the same time that they are aggressively buying oil they are aggressively building a blue water navy. Why would they buy the oil when in today's world it doesn't make any difference who owns the oil? We own only 2 percent of the world's oil, but we use--and the next chart will show that. The next chart shows that we use 25 percent of the world's oil, owning only 2 percent of it. And we import almost two-thirds of what we use. And we're able to do that because he who comes to the auction block with the dollars buys the oil. 
   So why would China buy oil when in today's world it doesn't make any difference who owns the oil? The country that comes with the dollars buys the oil. Could it be that they're buying this oil and building this huge blue water navy because one day they may have to tell the rest of the world, gee, I'm sorry, we have 1,300,000,000 million people clamoring for the benefits of an industrialized society and we just can't share this oil. Something to think about, isn't it? 
   The next chart is another look at this geopolitical reality that we're in. And there are two bars here. The bar on the right shows the top 10 oil and gas companies on the basis of how much reserves they have. Well, pretty obvious from looking at that ``World According to Oil'' that most of those are going to be over in the Middle East. As a matter of fact, among the top 10, 98 percent of all the oil is owned not by companies, but by countries. And only 2 percent is owned by Luke Oil, which is kind of a company. One might argue that it had a lot of national control. 
   The bar on the left represents the top 10 oil and gas companies on the basis of how much they produce. Now, the really big guys that a lot of our people are concerned about because they're making big profits, they don't look big at all when you look at it from a world perspective. They own none of the oil of the top 10. They don't even count in the top 10 countries or companies that own oil. And they represent only 22 percent of the production of oil. They're pumping somebody else's oil is what that means, and not much of that relative to the oil that's produced by these countries. 
   The next chart is another quote from the Hirsch Report. And this came out  in `05. Our country has paid for four reports, all saying essentially the same thing. And you may ask a really legitimate question, how come I haven't heard about these? All saying essentially the same thing: ``The peaking of oil is either present or imminent, with potentially devastating consequences.'' 
   The first report was the Hirsch Report early in '07. Later in '07 was another report by the Army Corps of Engineers saying essentially the same thing. Then last year, in '07, there were two reports, one by the Government Accountability Office, and another requested by the Secretary of Energy and the President, the National Petroleum Council. They came out last year in '07. All four of these reports say about the same thing, the peaking of oil is either present or imminent, with potentially devastating consequences. Now, how come you haven't heard about this? Why hasn't your government told you about this? And why haven't you heard about a really aggressive program to address the challenge presented by this reality? 
   World oil peaking is going to happen. This was in the Hirsch Report, '05. ``World production of conventional oil will reach a maximum and decline thereafter.'' It happened in our country in 1970. The same person who predicted that predicted the world would be peaking about now. I have a very simple question I've asked myself over and over again. If M. King Hubbert was right about the United States--and he was, incontrovertible evidence that he was right about the United States--and if he predicted in 1979 that the world would be peaking about now--and by the way, by 1980, we knew of a certainty that he was right about his prediction of the United States because, in looking back from 1980, we can see, gee, he was right. In 1970, we really did peak, and we're now over the peak and sliding down the other side. Shouldn't someone have said, gee, if M. King Hubbert was right about the United States, might he not be right about the world? And if, in fact, he is right about the world, shouldn't we really be doing something about this? It's an interesting question. I'm not sure I know the answer to it. 
   People tend to hear what they want to hear, they tend to see what they want to see. My wife tells me that I shouldn't be talking about this. She said, don't you know that in ancient Greece they killed the messenger that brought bad news. And I tell her this is really a good news story. The good news is that if we start today to fix this problem, the ride is going to be less bumpy than if we start tomorrow. And the second good news about this is that--I'm really exhilarated by this. There is no exhilaration like the exhilaration of meeting and overcoming a big challenge, and this is a huge challenge. I believe that America is up to this. If America knew what the problem was, if America knew what needed to be done to solve the problem, I think that we would do now what we did in World War II. And I lived through World War II. I was born in 1926. Yeah, you've done the arithmetic right, I'm 82 now. And I lived through World War II, and I remember how everyone was involved in that war. And I think Americans would do 
   that again. 
   This maximum is called the peak. A number of competent forecasters project peaking within a decade. That was in `05. Now, 3 years later, this is within a decade, and most of them were predicting it peaking about now. Some uncertainty, and a lot of things contribute to that uncertainty, and that's what he talks about here in the rest of this paragraph. 
   ``Oil peaking presents a unique challenge.'' And then this statement, ``The world has never faced a problem like this without massive mitigation more than a decade before the fact.'' Now, if peaking is upon us, it is impossible to do this mitigation a decade before the fact. ``Without massive mitigation more than a decade before the fact, the problem will be pervasive and will not be temporary. Previous energy transitions, wood to coal and coal to oil, were gradual and evolutionary. Oil peaking will be abrupt and revolutionary.'' 
   The next chart is additional quotes from this Hirsch Report. ``The peaking of oil production presents the United States and the world with an unprecedented risk management problem.'' As peaking is approached, liquid fuel prices and price volatility will increase dramatically.'' Wow, that's exactly what's happened in the last few months, isn't it? ``And without timely mitigation''--which we have not done--``the economic, social and political costs will be unprecedented.'' 
   Now, these are the words of a very serious study done by one of the most prestigious organizations in our world today. ``Without timely mitigation, the economic, social and political costs will be unprecedented.'' 
   The next chart. And if a picture is worth a thousand words, this may be worth a million, huh? Here is a guy with his huge SUV, and he's standing beside the dwarf of a pump there, ``Demand and Supply.'' And he says, ``Just why is gas so expensive?'' That's what happens when the demand exceeds the supply. 
   The next chart looks at U.S. energy consumption by sector. I would like to spend a few moments now looking at the gross energy picture. Energy, by the way, is a very unique entity. You use it once. You can't recycle it. All energy eventually ends up in the lowest form of energy, which is heat. And then it gets radiated to space and it's gone. If you want more energy, you've got to either get it from the sun as it comes in, or the consequences of the sun, the wind blowing and so forth, or the waves. Or you've got to find energy that was produced by the sun a very long time ago. And of course it was the shining of the sun that made the little organisms grow in these ancient, subtropical seas that then settled to the bottom and sediment came in. And we believe the Earth opened up, the tectonic plates moved and they were submerged, so they were close enough to the molten core that, under the right temperature, the right pressure, with enough time, finally became gas and oil. And there is no gas there unless there is a rock dome over it to hold the gas, otherwise it escapes, and then you have some really gummy oil that's going to be extremely difficult to get. The Saudis are now trying to exploit a field like that, the Khurais field, I think they call it. And they may get 1,000,200 million barrels a day starting next year, but it's a very technical field. They've spent billions of dollars drilling wells. They're going to inject seawater under pressure to periphery the field to try to move the oil, which is very stiff and sticky, to the center of the field where they can then move it out to the well. 
   But this shows the U.S. energy consumption by sector. Electric power, 40 percent; transportation, 28 percent; residential and commercial, 11 percent; and industrial, 21 percent. 
   The next chart shows us what we use to produce the electricity. And I wanted to look at this because I want us to remember that we have two basic kinds of energy we use today; one is electric energy and the other is liquid fuels energy. And there is some ability to use one or the other, but there is a limit to what this transferability is. But some of the energy we use to produce electricity could be used in our cars and trucks and trains and so forth. 
   Coal, actually, we could use that; the Germans did it, the South Africans did it when they were producing oil from coal by the Fisher Tropes method. It's a 100-year-old method, we know how to do it. And we could convert our coal into a gas or a liquid. Here is natural gas, and you see city buses running on natural gas. Nuclear, that just produces electricity. Hydro, that just produces electricity. Petroleum liquids and coke, not very much there. About 3 percent of our electricity is produced by diesel, by liquid fuels. 
   I just wanted to show that, by conserving in electricity or by producing a lot more of our electricity with nuclear, which now produces only about 20 percent, we could free up some of the natural gas and some of the coal that could be converted to a gas or liquid because our really big challenge in the future is liquid fuels.     
   I'm pretty sanguine about what we can do electricity-wise for the future, much less sanguine about what we can do for liquid fuels. 
   We use some renewables. The next chart shows us the renewables that we're using. And I want you to look at the scale of this. This is 1 percent. I think totally 2 1/2 percent of all of our electricity is produced by renewables.  And we have lots of wind machines. We have lots of solar panels on the roofs of houses. And the biggest one of these is wood and then wind. 
   By the way, this is wood waste used by the timber industry and by the paper industry. The opportunities to massively grow this are not all that much. Waste energy is a great idea, but we need to remember that a huge waste stream is largely the result of profligate use of fossil fuels. In a fossil fuel-deficient world, that waste stream will be nowhere near as big as it is now. But for the moment, it represents an opportunity to create more electricity, and I think we ought to be exploiting it. 
   This is true geothermal. That's tapping into the molten core of the Earth. You go to Iceland. I didn't see a single chimney in Iceland. They get all of their energy there, as far as I know, from geothermal. We have some places in our country where we are close enough to the molten core of Earth that we could do that. 
   Here is solar, and I'm a big fan of solar. I have a little getaway place in the mountains of West Virginia, and I'm off the grid. All I have is solar there. But notice the trifling amount. This is 1 percent here, 1 percent, this whole thing. Notice the trifling contribution that solar is making now. 
   The next chart, this is an interesting one because what it does is it shows us how much of our energy we are getting from fossil fuels. 
   We are very much like the young couple whose grandparents have died and left them a big inheritance, and they now have established a life-style where 85 percent of all the money they spend comes from their grandparents' inheritance and only 15 percent of the money comes from their income. And the inheritance, if they live a normal life span, the inheritance is going to run out before they die, before they retire even. So, obviously, they have got to do something. They have got to either spend less or make more. That's precisely the predicament that we are in. It's the predicament that Hyman Rickover was cautioning about 51 years ago. We get 85 percent of all of our energy from coal, petroleum, and natural gas, and we get only 15 percent of it from other sources. The major part of those other sources is nuclear power, which provides 8 percent of our total energy for the country, about 20 percent of our electrical energy. 
   And here are the renewables. These are the things that Hyman Rickover was talking about, which we inevitably will transition to. Now, we may for a long time be able to get a lot of energy, maybe much more than this, from nuclear. But except for nuclear energy, this list, and you could make it a little bigger and include a few more things in it, but this is the kind of the things that we are going to have to be living on in the future. We will inevitably transition to renewables. Oil is not forever. It will run out. The only question is when. So we need to be doing something about this. 
   The next chart shows some things that I have personally been involved with to help this transition. Renewable energy and energy tax credits, I introduced a bill in the House which is a companion bill to the Senate, Senate 2821, the Cantwell-Ensign bill. And this passed the Senate, by the way, 88-8. And the House bill is 5984. What it does is to continue the tax credits for developing renewables. Without those tax credits, they are not yet competitive with oil. If we wait until they are, the challenge will be even greater and the problem even bigger. So we must get these things going now. We should have had them going a long time ago. And we really need these tax credits. They are about to expire. 
   Renewable domestic sources, H.R. 6107. I set up, with my good friend Tom Udall from New Mexico, the Peak Oil Caucus. And we have a resolution that we hope the Congress will vote on, recognizing the reality of peak oil and the necessity of doing something about it. 
   ARPA-E, I'm a very strong supporter of ARPA-E. DARPA, after which ARPA-E is patterned, is part of our defense organization, and it has been enormously successful in pioneering envelope-pushing things. The Internet is the result of early work by DARPA. All of our unmanned aircraft wouldn't be here if it weren't for DARPA, and we think that we need something like that in energy. The government needs to be involved in this. Some of the things we need to push are not near enough term that businesses can justify investing money in it. That's why we have DARPA. It has been enormously successful for the military. And I'm a big fan of ARPA-E. We need to prioritize what's probably going to work, where we should invest our money. 
   CAFE standards, I have been a big fan of increasing CAFE standards. 
   The other day driving to work, I noticed in front of me in one lane was an SUV with one person in it. In the lane next to it was a Prius, and I drive one. I bought the first one in Congress, the first one in Maryland, as a matter of fact. But I noted that the two people riding in that Prius were getting six times the miles per gallon per person as compared to the one person riding in the SUV. We have enormous opportunities for conservation. 
   Let me note at this point that there's only one thing that will bring down the price of oil. For the moment drilling won't do it because that oil will not flow for years. Investing in renewables will not do it because they will not be of any moment for a while. I'm a strong fan of renewables, and I now signed on to a bill to drill in ANWR if we use all of the Federal revenues to invest in alternatives because we desperately need to accelerate the development of these alternatives. Only one thing will reduce the price of oil, and that is to use less of it. Supply and demand. Now, there is a little bit of speculation in there, but the market will eventually punish them if they are artificially increasing the price of oil. If you buy oil for $140 a month from now if, in fact, it's $130, you've got to come up with $10 a barrel for every future barrel you bought. They cannot forever inflate the market. Ultimately they will pay for their sins if, in fact, this is going on. 
   Farms can't produce all of their own energy and some for the people living in the city. We're really in trouble for the future. 
   Tax credit for hybrids, we really need to extend that. People are buying hybrids. You know, $4 gas is a big incentive. We need to accelerate that. We need to incentivize people to park their SUV, to get in this hybrid, which will get more mileage. 
   Fuel flexibility, neutrality. This is an interesting one, the so-called DRIVE Act, and what this would do would mandate that all of America's cars in the future will be flex-fuel cars. It costs less than $100 per car, to build a car that would burn any fuel. The only cars produced in Brazil are flex-fuel cars. They can burn gasoline. They can burn ethanol. They can burn any percentage mixture of ethanol and gasoline. And we can have flex-fuel cars that can burn any fuel. We have no idea 10 years from now what fuels will be out there to use because the average car stays in the fleet for 16 to 
   18 years. So we need to be making these flex-fuel cars so we will be prepared to use whatever fuels are available in the future. 
   The next chart, and this is kind of an expansion of the previous chart we saw. What this looks at is the energy sources that are available to us as we transition from fossil fuels ultimately to renewables. We have some finite sources and we have nuclear. We have finite sources, and these are the tar sands and the oil shales and coal. Just a word about each of those, and I need to come to the floor and spend a lot of time talking about these because there is a lot of irrational exuberance, as Alan Greenspan would say, about the potential for production from some of these sources. 
   Just a word. The tar sands of Canada are getting a million barrels a day. They know what they are doing is not sustainable. By the way, the world uses about 85, 86 million barrels a day; so a million barrels a day is a bit more than 1 percent of what we use. But it's not sustainable. They're using gas that will run out. They're using water that will run out. They're thinking about putting a nuclear power plant there. I understand if you think of it as a vein which is now on the surface, when that's mined, it ducks under it and overlays; so they're going to have to develop it in situ. They don't know how to do that. There's a huge amount of potential oil there, more than all the reserves of oil in all the world. But how much we can develop it and how quickly we can develop it is really very uncertain at this time.  
   Oil shales, the same thing can be said about those. Those are in our country out in Colorado and Wyoming and so forth, Utah. We have probably 1 1/2 trillion barrels of potential oil there. This isn't really oil, but with some heating and so forth, it can be converted into oil. Nobody yet is exploiting any of that. A lot of money has been spent there. Shell Oil Company did a big experiment a few years ago. We may get a lot from that; we may get little or nothing from it. It is very uncertain. 
   Our coal, it's said we have 250 years of coal. Let me hold that discussion for just a moment because we are going to have a little chart in a moment if we have time for it. 
   Nuclear, I'm a big fan of nuclear. There are three ways to get nuclear power: One is the light water reactor, the fissionable uranium. That is finite. It will run out. We cannot build power plants forever and fissionable uranium. But we can go to breeder reactors, which, as the name implies, produces more fuel than they use. You borrow some trouble when you go to those, transporting fuel for enrichment, weapons-grade fuel, and so forth, but it produces really clean energy. 
   Then there's nuclear fusion. If we get that, we're home free. That's what the sun does, and that's what we do in the hydrogen bomb. But to control that, we have been working on it for a long while, and it's always very elusive, always way out in front of us. If you think you're going to solve our energy problems with fusion, you probably think you're going to solve your personal economic problems by winning the lottery. I think the odds are probably about the same. By the way, that doesn't keep me from enthusiastically voting for the $250 million a year we spend on fusion because if we get there, we're home free. That's all the energy we could ever need forever. But the high probability is we are going to be using a combination of these renewable sources. The next time I come to the floor, I'm going to spend a lot of time talking about realistic expectations for these renewables. 
   Two bubbles have already broken: the hydrogen bubble and the corn ethanol bubble. The National Academy of Sciences said if we use all of our corn for ethanol, it would displace 2.4 percent of our gasoline. All of it. And the amount we have used has now driven up the price of food around the world, as you have noted. They made a similar observation for soybeans. If we use all of our soybeans for soy diesel, it would displace 2.9 percent. 
   By the way, they noted that for corn ethanol, all of the corn going to ethanol, if you tuned up your car and put air in the tires, they said, you would save as much gas as using all of our corn to produce corn ethanol. We get incredible amounts of energy from these fossil fuels. The quality and quantity of energy in these fossil fuels is just incredible. 
   I mentioned earlier that I was excited by this. This presents a huge challenge to us. We had a huge challenge in World War II. I lived through that. And what I think we need to address this problem is a program that involves everybody in the Nation. And the last time that happened was in World War II. Everybody needs to be involved. We had a victory garden. We had daylight savings time. We saved our household grease. No new cars were built for people in 1943, 1944, and 1945. And then we need the technology focus of putting a man on the moon, and we need the urgency of the Manhattan Project. We are the most creative, innovative society in the world. I'm convinced that, properly informed, the American people can perform miracles. I think we once again can become an energy-exporting country, energy exporting in the terms of exporting the technology it takes to exploit these renewables. I'm excited about this. I think we need challenges. Our young people's lives are just too easy in this country. As I tell audiences, young people, some of them, not a majority of them, spend far too much time watching dirty movies and smoking marijuana. They wouldn't be doing that if they had a real challenge. I can imagine Americans going to sleep at night saying, ``Today I used less energy than I did yesterday and I'm okay.''     
   Just one last chart and then I have got to close. The last one. 
   Using less energy doesn't mean you have a lesser quality of life. It doesn't mean you have a lesser quality of life. This chart shows a number of the countries of the world and the amount of energy they use and how good they feel about life on the ordinate. Here we are, using more energy than anybody else in the world, but notice, there are I think 24 countries, some of them using only half the energy we use, that don't feel as good about life as we do; they feel better about life than we do. 
   There are lots of opportunities for efficiency and conservation. We will come to the floor and talk about realistic expectations for what we can get out of these renewables and about all of the opportunities that we have for efficiency and conservation. 
   I'd just like to close, Mr. Speaker, by saying that America really can respond to this. We have performed miracles in the past, we can do it again. So I am excited about this. With my wife's counsel that I shouldn't be talking about this, I think that this is a good news story because America really, really, really responds well to a challenge. We did it in World War II, we did it in putting a man on the moon. We can do it here again. 
   Thank you, Madam Speaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (OUR RICH HISTORY OF FAITH -- (House of Representatives - June 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Thank you very much, Randy, for organizing this special order this evening. 
   Most of the founders of our country were deeply religious. You wouldn't know that by reading our textbooks. They have been bled dry of any meaningful reference to how religious our founders were. 
   One of those founders was Patrick Henry. And his words, some of his words may be in our textbook, ``Give me liberty or give me death.'' But I will bet you the textbook will not include the context of this. 
   This was said on March 23, 1775, at St. John's Church in Richmond, Virginia; and this is what he said. ``An appeal to arms and the God of hosts is all that is left us. But we shall not fight our battle alone. There is a just God that presides over the destinies of nations. The battle, sir, is not to the strong alone. Is life so dear or peace so sweet as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it Almighty God. I know not what course others may take but, as for me, give me liberty, or give me death.'' 
   Alexis de Tocqueville, the young Frenchman, toured this country in 1831, and this is what he said. ``I sought for the key to the greatness and genius of America in her great harbors, her fertile fields and boundless forests, in her rich mines and vast world commerce, in her universal public school system and institutions of learning. I sought for it in her democratic Congress and in her matchless constitution. 
   ``But not until I went into the churches of America and heard her pulpits flame with righteousness did I understand the secret of her genius and power. America is great because America is good. And if America ever ceases to be good, America will cease to be great.'' 
   In 1863 Abraham Lincoln declared a National Day of Humiliation, and I really love his words. He was not supposed to be a really religious man, but listen to what he said. ``We have been the recipients of the choicest bounties of heaven. We have been preserved these many years in peace and prosperity where we have grown in numbers and wealth and power as no other Nation has ever grown. 
   ``But we have forgotten God. We have forgotten the gracious Hand which preserved us in peace and multiplied and enriched us, and we have vainly imagined, in the deceitfulness of our hearts, that all these blesses were produced by some superior wisdom and virtue of our own. 
   ``Intoxicated with unbroken success, we have become too self-sufficient to feel the necessity of redeeming and preserving grace, too proud to pray to the God that the God that made us! It behooves us then to humble ourselves before the offended Power, to confess our national sins, and to pray for clemency and forgiveness.'' 
   Abraham Lincoln understood that this was an experiment. In his Gettysburg address he said ``Four score and seven years ago, our forefathers brought forth on this continent a new Nation, conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.'' 
   We're now engaged in a great civil war testing where that Nation or any Nation so conceived and so dedicated can long endure. Mr. Lincoln, this has been a very successful experiment. But I think the words of Alexis de Tocqueville are true, that America will continue to be great so long as America continues to be good. 
   And Mr. Forbes, it will be very difficult for America to continue to be good if we forget how much we depend on God. Thank you for yielding to me, sir. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - June 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I will submit for the Record two short articles, one from Business Week and the other from the Washington Post, at the end of my remarks. 
   It's been roughly 2 years now since I have been coming to the well to talk about energy and, more specifically, about peak oil. When I first came here to do that, we had quite a discussion in our office what we would call it because it was a phenomenon that very few had any interest in or any knowledge of. 
   And I had heard two descriptive terms. One was peak oil, which is the one we finally decided to use, and the other was the great rollover. When we talk about it this evening, you will understand what the great rollover is. It's the rollover from adequate production. You come to the peak and then you roll over the peak and start down the other side. We wisely, I think, chose to call it peak oil because that's apparently what everybody else is calling it. 
   And I wanted to start this evening with two articles that a couple of years ago when I started coming here I would never have dreamed that I would be able to come to this well and one day find two articles like this in two of our major publications. One of them is from the Washington Post and the other is from Business Week, and I'd like to begin this evening by reading from these articles. It's the kind of thing that I have been saying for 2 years, and it's very satisfying to be able to read it now from somebody else's pen. 
   This is the one from the Washington Post called, ``A Wind-Powered Town, an Energy Bill and a Lot of Hot Air.'' You might suspect by that title that the author is Dana Milbank. 
   ``There's a certain irony in Washington's failure to devise a modern energy policy. This is, after all,'' he says, ``the one place on earth that is powered almost entirely by wind. 
   ``Lawmakers are growing further apart on energy legislation, as Democrats demand alternative fuels and Republicans insist on more drilling. But for both sides, the ability to talk about energy is both plentiful and renewable. 
   ``While the Senate held its fourth day of debate on an energy bill, three congressional committees held hearings on the subject yesterday, and the House and Senate Renewable Energy Caucuses held an all-day `expo and forum' in the Cannon Caucus Room. Democratic senators held two news conferences on the subject, Republican senators held a third, and bipartisan groups of lawmakers contributed a fourth and fifth.'' And this is all in one day. 
   ``Not to be left out, the National Association for Business Economics, the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission,'' before whom I testified this afternoon, ``the Electric Power Supply Association, the Nuclear Energy Institute, and a coalition of environmentalists all hosted energy events of their own. 
   ``Talk about a large carbon footprint. The amount of CO  
   2 emitted from the mouths of all these lawmakers, lobbyists and activists was enough to cause part of Greenland to melt into the sea. 
   `` `This bill's going to have a tough time,' said Senator Larry Craig ..... That's a safe guess, given that the Senate plans for about eight days of debate on the bill, and Republicans such as Craig are hinting at a filibuster that could derail the whole thing.'' 
   ``The Senate energy legislation is fairly modest. It stays away from radical policies, such as a carbon tax or a cap on carbon emissions. Its toughest provision, a plan to increase fuel-efficiency standards to 35 miles per gallon by 2020, is under siege by a bipartisan group of lawmakers from car-manufacturing States. 
   `` `The Senate energy bill started out fairly weak, and we don't see the debate getting any better,' complained Eric Pica, who represented Friends of the Earth at a protest by environmentalists on the Senate grounds yesterday. 
   ``Minutes later, Republican lawmakers assembled in the Senate television gallery to voice similarly bitter objections to the bill, for completely opposite reasons. `It doesn't do anything to lower the price of gasoline,' argued Senator MITCH MCCONNELL, the Senate Republican leader.'' 
   ``Did that message get out? Not without some difficulty. The Republican event was squeezed in between a Senate hearing on `the impact of rising gas prices,' and a pair of House committee sessions on biofuels and `climate change mitigation.' Within minutes of the GOP's departure from the television studio, Democrats walked in with a rebuttal. 
   `` `We do not believe in the President's theory, the Republican's theory: Drill, drill, drill, more of the same,' Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, taunted. `It reminds me of Iraq.' '' 
   Over in the Cannon Caucus Room, where the Renewable Energy Caucus was caucusing among displays of pea pellets, switch grass and filament-free lightbulbs, exhibitors were on hand to talk about landfill gas and to hand out lollipops and bumper stickers saying I love wind energy. 
   ``It was a festive gathering, but Representative ROSCOE BARTLETT, Republican from Maryland, a champion of renewable energy, delivered a somber message about progress in the capital. `We've been crawling at a snail's pace,' he said. `We've been doing little more than nibbling at the edges. 
   Now, for the article from Business Week, and we will kind of be reading this together because I have seen it for the first time just a couple of moments before I came to the well.  
   It's by Eugene Linden, and it's called, ``From Peak Oil to Dark Age?'' And this is what he says. 
   ``Oil output has stalled, and it's not clear the capacity exists to raise production. 
   ``With global oil production virtually stalled in recent years, controversial predictions that the world is fast approaching maximum petroleum output are looking a little bit less controversial.'' 
   I would note as an aside that a couple of years ago when I began to talk about this, I ran the risk of being relegated to the lunatic fringe. But in another life I was a scientist. I'd been concerned about this problem for 40 years, and I thought these statistics in reality were on my side. 
   ``At first blush, those concerned about global warming should be delighted. After all, what better way to prod the move toward carbon-free, climate-friendly alternative energy. 
   ``But climate change activists have nothing to cheer about. The U.S. is completely unprepared for peak oil, as it's called, and the wrenching adjustments it would entail could easily accelerate global warming as Nations turn to coal. Moreover, regardless of the implications for climate change, peak oil represents a mortal threat to the U.S. economy.'' 
   This isn't some wild, left-wing publication. This is Business Week who is saying this. 
   ``Peak oil refers to the point at which world oil production plateaus before beginning to decline as depletion of the world's remaining reserves offsets ever-increased drilling. Some experts argue that we're already there, and that we won't exceed by much the daily production high of 84.5 million barrels first reached in 2005. If so, global production will bump along near these levels for years before beginning an inexorable decline. 
   ``What would that mean? Alternatives are still a decade away from meeting incremental demand for oil. With nothing to fill the gap, global economic growth would slow, stop, and then reverse; international tensions would sore as Nations seek access to diminishing supplies, enriching autocratic rulers in unstable oil States; and, unless other sources of energy could be ramped up with extreme haste, the world could plunge into a new Dark Age.     
   Even as faltering economies burned less oil, carbon loading of the atmosphere might accelerate as countries turn to vastly dirtier coal. 
   When I read this, I was reminded of the observation of one of the giants in the area, one of the experts, Kenneth Deffeyes from Princeton University, who said that the least bad outcome from peak oil would be a deep worldwide recession that might make the 1930s look like good times. 
   Sound familiar to what I just read? He says, if you don't like that, try the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse or famine, pestilence and death. 
   ``Given such unpleasant possibilities, you would think peak oil would be a national obsession. But policymakers can hide behind the possibility that vast troves will be available from unconventional sources, or that secretive oil-exporting nations really have the huge reserves they claim. Yet even if those who say that the peak arrived are wrong, enough disturbing omens--for example, declining production in most of the world's great oil fields, and no new super fields to take up the slack--exist for the issue to merit an intense international focus.'' 
   When I read about the decline in our big oil fields, I thought of another article about 3 weeks or so ago in the Post about the second largest oil field in the world, the largest one in Mexico, the Cantrell oil field, whose discovery was quite interesting. A Mexican fisherman by the name of Cantrell kept having oil-foiled nets. When oil foiled his net, he knew where to go, because there was only one oil company in Mexico, Pemex, so he went to Pemex, look what you did to my net, give me a new one. 
   So they did, but he came in so many times they wondered, do we really spill that much oil? So they asked, where are you finding all that oil? He said, come, I will show you. He showed them oil bubbling up out of the ocean. They drilled there, and for a number of years that has been the second largest field in the world, producing 2 million barrels of oil per day, the Cantrell oil field. It has declined down to 20 percent, down to 1.6 million barrels a day in the last 2 years. 
   The reality is that it will be here much sooner for the U.S. in the form of peak oil imports. Since we import nearly two-thirds of the oil we consume, global oil for export should be our bigger concern. 
   In that article about 3 weeks ago in the Post, they noted that in 8 years they estimate that Mexico will be an oil importer. I think it was in that same article that noted in 10 years Iran may very well be an oil importer. Maybe it has something to do with the reason they are interested in nuclear energy. 
   Fast-growing domestic consumption of oil-exporting nations and increasing appetites by big exporters such as China portend tighter supplies available to the U.S., China now the number two importer in the world, with an economy growing at 11.4 percent, the last quarter for which I saw data. With our economy barely 2 percent, how soon might they be the biggest oil importer in the world? 
   Unless world oil production rises rapidly, but output has stalled, call it de facto peak oil or peak oil light, it means that the United States is entering an age when it will have to scramble to maintain existing import levels. 
   We will know soon enough whether the capacity to raise production really exists. If not, basic math and the clock will tell the story. All alternatives, geothermal, solar, wind and so forth, produce only 3 percent of the energy supplied by oil. 
   If oil demand rises by 2 percent, while upward remains flat, a generation of alternative energy would have to expand 60 percent a year. That's more than twice the rate of wind power, the fastest-growing alternative energy. 
   All this incremental energy would somehow have to be delivered to transportation, which consumes most of the oil produced each year just to stay even with the growth in demand. 
   Nuclear and hydropower together produce 10 times the power of wind, geothermal and solar. But even if nations ignore environmental concerns, it takes years to build nuclear plants and even identify suitable, undammed rivers. 
   There are many things we in the United States can do and should have been doing other than the present policy of crossing our fingers. If an oil tax makes sense from a climate change perspective, it seems doubly worthy of it if it extends supplies. Boosting efficiency and scaling up alternatives must also be a priority. Recognizing that nations will turn to cheap coal, recently 80 percent of growth in coal use has come from China. More work is needed to defang this fuel which produces more carbon dioxide per ton than any other energy source. 
   Even if the peakists are wrong, and I will tell you each night I pray I am wrong, because if I am not wrong we are in for a pretty rough ride. Even if the peakists are wrong, we would still be better off taking these actions. If they are right, major actions right now may be the only way to avert a new dark age in an overheated world. 
   Again, I would like to emphasize, these are not articles from some left-wing environment magazine. These are articles from Business Week and the Washington Post. 
   Now I would like to turn to the first slide here on the easel, and this is a kind of an interesting slide, I think, that points to our problem. Here is a fellow looking at the gas pump and the $3 gasoline, he is in his huge SUV there. Demand, and looking at the supply in the pump, just why is gas so expensive? 
   Mr. Motorist, it's expensive because of supply and demand. 
   One of my colleagues asked me, what can I tell my constituents who are asking me what can we do to reduce the price of gas? I told him, tell them to drive less. It will certainly reduce their cost if they are driving less, and also, if collectively we drive less, then there will be more supply and less demand, and the price of gasoline and oil will drop. They are both exquisitely sensitive to supply and demand. 
   The next chart is one of my favorites, and this was referred to by Hyman Rickover who gave a speech 50 years  ago, the 14th day of last month, to a group of physicians in Saint Paul, Minnesota, and I would encourage a reread of this article several times over, very, very perceptive article. 
   He talked about 8,000 years of recorded history, and on our chart here we have only about 400 years, the last 400 years of that 8,000 years of recorded history. If we extended it this way, the others, 7.6 thousand years, it would be the same thing, very little energy being used. You could hardly see that energy was used here. It looks like zero because of this scale, it's hard to differentiate the tiny amount of energy that prehistoric man used that's compared to the energy we use today. 
   Then we began the industrial revolution. We see it here with brown, which was wood, and that industrial revolution was sputtering when we found coal. Then we found gas and oil. It took off. That's the red curve there. Look how sharply that is rising. 
   Now, this is a compressed abscissa because we have 400 years, and we will see that curve again, and it will be very flat, but that's because we will have stretched out abscissa and made the curve look flatter. 
   But notice what happened up about the 1970s up there. Had that curve kept going, we will be through the ceiling right now. Notice what happened in the 1970s where we had a drop in use, a world wide recession as a result of the oil price shocks, and much increased deficiency. The efficiency of your refrigerator today is probably three times of the 1970s, and your air conditioner the same thing. 
   Hyman Rickover pointed out, when he gave his speech 50 years ago, that we were 100 years into the age of oil, and he wondered how long the age of oil would be. We have, today, a much better understanding of that, because in the last 50 years, we have seen the peaking of oil in our country. It occurred in 1970. The peaking of oil, and I think 35 of the 48 top oil producing countries in the world, he noted that the age of oil would occupy but a relatively brief moment in the stretch of human history, and 8,000 years of recorded history, the age of oil will occupy about 300 years. 
   We are not running out of oil. There is a lot of oil left. But it's going to be very difficult to get. That's going to make it very expensive, and each year we will get less and less. That happened in the United States. 
   Now, we work very hard to prove that M. King Hubbert was a liar. He was mentioned in one of the articles. M. King Hubbert predicted in 1956 that we would peak in 1970. 
   Now, we knew by 1980 that he was right, because we were already 10 years down the other side of Hubbert's speech. Our response to that was exactly the wrong response. Our response was let's see if we can't find more. So we gave tax incentives to see if we couldn't get the oil people to drill more, and it worked. They drilled more, but they didn't find more. 
   Now, in spite of having drilled more oil wells in our country than all the rest of the world put together, we're producing about half the oil today that we produced in 1970s, in spite of the fact that we found enormous amounts of oil in Alaska and in the Gulf of Mexico. 
   The next slide is a very interesting slide. This is the world according to oil. 
   This imagines that the size of the country would be relevant, consistent with the amount of oil that they have. So, if you are thinking about oil, who are the biggies in oil? 
   Obviously, Saudi Arabia dominates the landscape. They have about 22 percent, not quite a fourth of all of the oil reserves in the world. 
   Then there is Iran and Iraq and Kuwait. Kuwait, it looks like a little province. That's what Saddam Hussein thought, a little province that ought to belong to Iraq, so he went to take it. Tiny little country. Look at the amount of oil that it has. Here we are in the United States, pretty anemic, 2 percent of the known reserves of oil in the world. 
   But I want to point to something even more alarming than that. If I lived in China, look at it over there, 1.3 billion people. Today they are getting about 70 percent of all of their energy from dirty coal. They are near suffocating under it. Even worse in China, with 1 billion people and growing, soon to surpass China's 1.3 billion is India, which has only half the energy of China, and China has less oil than we do. So the world is poised if we are approaching peak oil. The world is poised for some very serious times. 
   The next chart is one that inspired 30 of our leading Americans, and I had the privilege of testifying with one of them yesterday, Jim Woolsey, and McFarland and Boyden Gray and 27 others, several of them, very senior four-star admirals who wrote a letter the President saying Mr. President, the fact that we have only 2 percent of the world's reserves of oil and use 25 percent of the world's oil and import almost two-thirds of what we use is a totally unacceptable national security risk. We really have to do something about that. 
   The President mentioned this at one of his State of the Unions, and he noted that we get this oil from countries which, as he said, which don't even like us. 
   Two more facts on this chart. We represent, it says here, 5 percent. We are less than that. We are one person out of 22 in the world, less than 5 percent of the world's population. We use 25 percent of the world's oil and import almost two-thirds of what we use. 
   The other figure on here really is an interesting one. We have only 2 percent of the world's oil reserves, but we are producing 8 percent of the world's oil. 
   What that means, of course, is that we are pumping our oil four times faster than the rest of the world. It's not hard to understand that when you realize we have drilled, as I said, more oil wells than all the rest of the world put together. 
   The next chart here, this isn't really a very good one, because you have to read the numbers and don't pay much attention to the symbols, because they make it look kind of even, but these are some data from Hyman Rickover's speech. He went through a development of civilization and, particularly, our industrial civilization, and the role that energy played, and if in fact that is going to be a bell curve kind of experience, as we go down the other side will we retrace in reverse the steps that he so well defined in the contribution of energy to the development of our civilization. 
   He noted that each person, I generally use about 75 watts, but that's, I guess, sitting here, and he had them sleeping, and he said that we are about 35 watts of electricity, or \1/20\ of a horsepower.     
   That's how much energy we represent, \1/20\th of a horsepower. In modest activity, you're something like a 70-watt bulb. That's all the energy that you are producing. 
   The household appliances he said that were available to the housewife of 50 years ago, it would be more than that today, wouldn't it, he said that represented the work of 33 faithful household servants is the way he expressed it. This energy has been such a cheap servant. 
   We had some factories then. We don't have many now. We had some factories then, and he said that the energy available to assist that factory worker in his productivity was the equivalent of being supported by 244 men. The automobile, and they got roughly the same mileage then as now. The automobile, he said, when going down the road, represented the work output of 2,000 men, and the locomotive that pulled the cars, 100,000 men, and the jet plane, 700,000 men. 
   Each barrel of oil has an energy equivalent, and you can see it here from these numbers. Each barrel of oil has the energy equivalent of 12 men working all year. And you will pay $125 roughly at the pump. So you can buy yourself the work equivalent of 12 men working all year with a barrel of oil. 
   When I first read that number, I said, that can't be. And then I thought about it, and I drive a Prius, and we've been averaging, for the past several thousand miles, it's 49 miles per gallon. And I asked myself, how long would it take me to pull my Prius 49 miles? That little gallon of gasoline, still cheaper at $3, by the way, still cheaper than water in the grocery store, pulls my car 79 miles. How long would it take me to pull the car that far? 
   Another statistic that really helped me understand that that's probably right is that if a man works really hard in his yard all day, his wife could get  more work out of an electric motor for less than 25 cents' worth of electricity. Now, that may be humbling to recognize that we're worth less than 25 cents a day, but that's the reality of this incredibly dense, cheap, so far ubiquitously available fossil fuel energy. It's just been everywhere. We assume it's there just like we assume that water and air are there. 
   The next chart, and if we could have only one chart to speak to, so that we can understand where we are and where we've come from and where we're going, this would be the chart. This shows the discoveries of oil. And you can see them there. Way back in the 1930s we found them, a bunch in the 1940s, and, boy, did we start finding it in the 1950s and 1960s and 1970s. 
   And then starting from 1980, down, it just has been going down, down, down. And that's in spite of the fact that we're drilling more and more wells. We have computer modeling and three-D seismic technologies we didn't know back when we were finding most of this oil. We pretty much have mapped the Earth geologically. We know the kinds of the formations oil is found in. 
   It is unlikely, very unlikely we will find any more large reservoirs of oil. The solid black line here represents the rate at which we've been consuming oil. Well, actually the production and consumption has been the same. There are no big lakes of oil anywhere so we've been using all we've produced. So this is the consumption curve. It's also been the production curve because up till now we have consumed everything we produced, or we've produced everything we would like to consume. 
   But look what happened to this curve. This was an exponential curve. And up through the Carter years, the Carter years about here, up through the Carter years we used as much oil in each decade as we had used in all of previous history. That is a stunning statistic. That means that when you've used half the world's oil, there would remain only 10 years of oil at present use rates because we would have used as much oil as in all of previous history. 
   Well, things really change. If they hadn't changed, extrapolate this. It would be above this graph, well above this chart. So really good things happened as a result of the shocks we had at the Arab oil embargo. We're very much more efficient than we were. 
   And by the way, our citizens in California use maybe two-thirds the energy that we use here. Do you think they're less happy than we are? I have a lot of colleagues in California. They would really debate that if you suggested that. 
   Well, since about 1980, as these curves show, we have not found as much oil as we've been using. Today we're pumping what, 4 or 5 barrels for every barrel we find. So now we've been dipping into the past reserves. This chart says that peaking should be occurring, what, about now, or 2010, something like that. 
   Now, we can make the future look different within limits, depending on how aggressive we are with enhanced oil recovery, sending live steam down there, flooding it with the CO  
   2 for CO 
   2 sequestration, flooding it with seawater as the Saudis do. They pump 3 or 4 barrels of seawater for every barrel of oil that they pump. 
   They have suggested here in the lightly shaded areas to the right what future discoveries will be like. They certainly won't be that smooth curve. They'll be up and down. But I'll tell you, if you were smoothing a curve out you wouldn't have come that high, would you, if you just look at this chart. So they're being generous, I think, in how much oil we might find. 
   Well, unless you think we're going to find enormously new reservoirs of oil, and I know of no responsible experts who believe that, it's clear that you cannot pump what you have not found. And unless we find a great deal more, the area under our consumption curve cannot be larger than the area if you put a smooth curve around this, the area under the discovery curve. 
   And so these two articles I read were reflecting the reality that we're probably at peak oil and face a very challenging future. 
   The next chart shows one depiction of what's called Hubbert's peak. This is U.S. oil production. This is the whole country's production. He predicted only the lower 48, by the way. But you see we've reached a peak. In about 1970 we reached a peak, and now we're about half the oil production in spite of having more oil wells than all the rest of the world. 
   The next chart is really an interesting one, because this chart is used by one of the few groups that I think are in denial. This is the Cambridge Energy Research Associates. They are predicting that peak oil, if it occurs, is going to be an undulating plateau somewhere well out into the future, not to worry about it today. And they need to discredit M. King Hubbert, because M. King Hubbert predicted that the United States would peak in 1970 and we did peak in 1970. And in 1979, I think, or 1969, I forget which date, he predicted the United States would be peaking, I'm sorry, the world would be peaking about now. 
   Well, a very obvious question, if he was right about the United States, which is clearly a microcosm of the world, why shouldn't he be right about the world? 
   And knowing he was right about the United States by 1980, because we peaked in 1970, we've now lost 27 years when we should have been addressing this problem. 
   Well, they use these curves to try to convince you and me that you shouldn't have any confidence in M. King Hubbert; therefore, don't worry about the future. 
   Hubbert peak for the lower 48 was the red going up this side and the yellow coming down over there. 
   Now, the actual lower 48 was the green, and they think that deviates a great deal from the yellow. Gee, I think they're pretty close. From my perspective, I think that they confirm the predictions of M. King Hubbert. 
   And then the red, now, the red is off a little bit. That's because he didn't include Canada and the Gulf of Mexico. And this little bump on the way down is the oil from Alaska, from Prudhoe Bay. I've been there, Prudhoe Bay. A 4-foot pipe right where 3 starts there at Prudhoe Bay. For years, less now, it's running down. For years a fourth of all our domestic production came through that pipeline. 
   The next chart is just one of many quotes from one of four studies, a fifth one, which is now out, but it's been embargoed so we can't really talk about it until they've released it. This is from the first report paid for by the Department of Energy, done by the big prestigious SAIC, Science International Applications Corporation, known as the Hirsch Report because Robert Hirsch was the principal investigator on it. 
   And I just want to mention the highlight here. He says the world has never faced a problem like this. There is nothing in history, which is what these articles were saying, right? There is nothing in history that is a precedent to this. There's nothing to guide us as to what will happen and where we should go. 
   The next chart is a schematic of the peak. Now, I said we were going to spread out the abscissa and flatten the peak. That's exactly the same peak that you saw before when we compressed the abscissa in a 400-year scale. This is the schematic. The yellow area is about 35 years. Two percent growth, by the way, doubles in 35 years; four times, bigger in 70 years; eight times bigger in 105 years. 
   No wonder Albert Einstein, in response to a question, Dr. Einstein, what will be the next big energy force in the universe after nuclear? And he said the most powerful force in the universe is the power of compound interest. Exponential growth. And we see it here. 
   So if this is, in fact, where we are, and it's now being more and more widely recognized that that's probably correct, this is what the future will look like. That dark green area represents the amount of oil that will be available. If our economies are going to continue as they are now, with just a modest 2 percent growth, this is a 2 percent growth curve, we're going to need that much more oil. We're going to need twice as much oil at the end of 35 years. That is a daunting challenge. 
   When you represent that, when you remember that we use 21 million barrels of oil a day in our country, a fourth of the world's production and the total amount we get from all of the usual alternatives is something like 3 percent of everything; and they're growing rapidly, but it's still only about 3 percent of all of our energy use.  
   The next chart, it's really an interesting chart and it points to two things that I'd like just for a moment to emphasize. Here we see that typical curve. You saw it before, the rise and then the stuttering in the '70s. We became more efficient or this would be off the top of the chart here. And I won't this evening go into how they got there, but using some very suspect data, our energy information agency is predicting that we will find as much more oil as all the reserves that we now know exist. 
   Even if that is true, from their own chart, that pushes the peak out from only now to 2016. That's 9 years from now. And the Hirsch report said, unless you started preparing 20 years before peak oil, you were going to have a pretty rough ride. 
   Now, if they're not going to find this enormous amount of additional oil, and I think the odds are very good they will not, then peaking is about now, and the curve starts down here. 
   Let me point to the other thing they note here; that is, if you have some really vigorous enhanced oil recovery, and you extend that peak production of oil, you might push it out to 2037. But then look what happens. You fall off a cliff. Obviously, the area between these two curves has to be the same as the area between these two curves down here. You know, you can't pump what's not there. 
   Now, you may get a little more. You will get a little more by enhanced oil recovery. But compared to the trillion barrels of oil that we've used so far, the trillion that we will use in the next 150 years as we run down the other side of Hubbert's peak, the additional oil we get is going to be fairly limited. 
   The next chart has a quote by one of the giants in this area, Laharrere, who says the USGS estimate implies a fivefold increase in discovery rate and reserve addition for which no evidence is presented. Such an improvement in performance is, in fact, utterly implausible, and I would agree, utterly implausible, given the great technological achievements of the industry over the past 20 years, the worldwide search and the deliberate efforts to find the largest remaining prospects. 
   Boy, we have plowed that ground and Laharrere is exactly right. Their predictions I think are implausible. 
   The next chart is one that I hope more and more of us look at and reflect on. This is an interesting one. I wish it was in living color. It's just kind of plain Jane. But on the abscissa here we have how much energy we use per person, and where would you expect to find us using more energy per person than any other person in the world. There we are, way up there. And the ordinate here is how happy we are with life, how content we are.     
   And we are okay. We are pretty content. But notice on this chart that there are, I think, 20 some nations, all of those from here up, that use less oil than we, less energy than we, who are happier than we. Not just as happy as we, happier than we are. 
   Now, it is obvious at this end of the curve it is really hard to be happy when you don't have much energy. When you are burning cow dung and so forth for your heat, you are not really happy. But many nations with about a fourth of energy that we use are just about as happy as we are. 
   So this is very encouraging. What that means is that you don't have to use as much energy as we are using to be happy. We are the most creative, innovative society in the world. We can use far less energy and be, I think, happier because we will have the satisfaction of really making a contribution. 
   The next chart kind of points to some of the difficulties, and these two articles I read mention those. I use a really simple analogy to help us understand where we are. We are like the young couple whose grandparents have died and left them a big inheritance, and they now are lavishly spending that inheritance, and 85 percent of everything they live on comes from their grandparents and only 15 percent from what they earn, and the inheritance is going to run out a long time before they retire; so they have obviously got to do something. They got to make more or spend less or some combination of those two. 
   I use those figures because that is where we are in terms of the amount of fossil fuel energy we use, 85 percent. Some will say 86 percent. Coal, oil, and gas make up about 85 percent of all the energy we use. More than half of the rest comes from nuclear power. 
   By the way, we are the biggest nuclear power producer in the world. France produces 75 percent of their electricity. We produce 20 of ours. But since we are so much bigger than France in terms of total quantity of electricity, we produce more than France does at a much smaller percentage. Well, nuclear power could and maybe should increase, but it comes with problems, as you know. And, also, unless you go to some different technologies, there is not a forever supply of fissionable uranium in the world. That is a very finite supply. So you are going to be going to burning something else or using a breeder reactor, which has problems of enrichment and moving fuel around that is weapons grade and so forth. So this comes with some obvious drawbacks. But shivering in the dark has some obvious drawbacks too, and we need to trade those off as we are looking at maybe using more nuclear power. 
   Then we come to the true renewables. And I will tell you that we will transition, the world will transition, to sustainable renewables, either because geology demands it as we run down the other side of Hubbert's Peak, and for the last 150 years of this glorious age of oil, we will move to sustainable renewables. If we do it on the terms of geology, it may be a really rough ride. If we do it on our terms, it will be a much less rough ride and it could really be fun because there is no exhilaration like the exhilaration of meeting and overcoming a challenge and, boy, this is a huge challenge. I can see this really turning Americans on. This is a far bigger challenge than we faced in World War II and that turned everybody on. I am 81 years old. I lived through that. Everybody had a victory garden. We had daylight savings time, I think, for the first time so you could work in your victory garden. There were no new cars for us. We made all sorts of sacrificing. We did it because we knew we needed to do it. 
   And before I forget as far as what we ought to be doing for the future, let me tell you that I think we can get there with our enormous creativity and innovation if we have proper leadership. We need a program that has the total commitment of World War II, that has the technology focus of putting a man on the moon and the urgency of the Manhattan Project. And I think Americans could be marshaled. I think we could make a tremendous contribution and really feel good about it. In that little chart that showed how satisfied we are with life, I think we would be even more satisfied with life, living just as well as we live now on a whole lot less energy and feeling good about the fact that we are able to live that well with less energy. 
   I want to spend a moment looking at the renewables that we will be turning to increasingly. This is a 2000 chart; so there are more now. But in 2000 solar was 1 percent of 7.07 percent. So it is five times bigger now, 0.35 percent. Big deal. And I am a big solar fan. I have on off-the-grid home and I get all of my electricity from solar and wind, but I recognize this is a tiny contributor now and has a long way to go. 
   Wood: That is waste products, and the timber industry and paper industry probably can't grow a whole lot without raping our forests. 
   Waste energy: We can do a whole lot more of that. But please note when you look at that waste pile that is going into the furnace, much of it came from oil. In an energy deficient world, that huge stream of waste will have really shrunk. There will be nowhere near as much. 
   Wind: The rapidest growing, at 30 percent per year that industry is growing. Still a tiny percentage. A huge frontier: conventional hydro. We don't have any more big rivers to dam in our country. We could get maybe as much more hydro from microhydro. Microturbines, that technology is really improving now. 
   Let's look at the next chart because that helps me talk about fuel from food. This is a chart on comparing the energy history with petroleum and with corn. And 75 percent of all the energy you get from corn comes from the fossil fuels you use to grow the corn  and haul it to the mill and ferment the grain and so forth. 
   The article in the Washington Post of a couple weeks ago noted that if you use all of our corn for ethanol, all of it, and discounted it for the fossil fuel input, which they said was 80 percent, and this is a little optimistic but 80 percent is not bad, that it would displace 2.4 percent of our gasoline. And they noted correctly that you could save that much gasoline if you tuned up your car and put air in the tires. That just points out the incredible challenge we have. The enormous amounts of energy that we get from this, 21 million barrels of oil we use a day, 70 percent of it in transportation. 
   Just to look at this bottom pie chart here, why it is not more efficient. Look at this purple section here. That is almost half of it. That is nitrogen fertilizer that we produce from natural gas. Not much in this country because it is too expensive. We produce it some places overseas from gas where gas is stranded. That is, there is gas and nobody to use it and it is hard to haul; so it is cheaper. So we make the nitrogen fertilizer there. Enormous investments of energy in growing corn. 
   I have several charts that relate specifically to agriculture. Farm productivity and number of farms: And to nobody's surprise, the number of farms have been going down, down, down. You see it in the red line there. While the productivity for the farm has going been going up up, up, up. That is because the farms have been getting bigger and bigger and bigger. 
   Now, to support all of that big expensive equipment, you have to have to farm, you need to farm several thousand acres. I bought a farm in Frederick County. I milked cows. I had 144 acres. I milked 60 cows, and I grew almost everything on the farm that I fed those cows. You can't do that today. The farms are very much bigger and they have huge equipment and just a very different kind of agriculture. 
   There are several charts here that present a very disturbing story for the family farm. Today, only 2 percent of our people farm, but almost everybody remembers an uncle or aunt or grandparent whose farm you went to. There is a lot of nostalgia in our country for farms. And this shows a percentage of U.S. farms. And these are the little farms. The small family farms are more than 90 percent of all of the farms. But look at the value of production. This little 7.5 percent of the farms which are large-scale family farms, the big family farms, represent 60 percent of all of the productions. And we will see in some future charts that almost all those small family farms are losing money. The people are working off the farm to support them. 
   Here is the next chart. These are things that our farm bill is going to have to take into consideration. This is a share of farm business assets, acres owned, and acres enrolled in a conservation wetland reserve program. 
   These are the assets. And you see again that most of the assets are in the small farm. And land owned is nearly the same as assets because the land is the biggest asset the farmer has. That is why that little circle there looks very much like this one. The assets and the land owned are about the same thing because 90 odd percent of all the assets are the land. And this shows that our small farms are really cooperating with these programs. Notice these small farms. That part of the circle has gotten larger. Our small farms are doing a really good job of respecting our wetlands and putting their land in reserve and so forth. 
   The next chart is almost one that almost makes me weep because I represent a farm district. It still is the biggest industry in my district. And this shows the size of farms and whether they are making money or not. The yellow is if you are making 20 percent or more. The next one is if you are making 10 percent or more, and then 0 to 10 percent in the red. Look at it. Losing money. This is by size of farm. Every farm group loses money. Generally speaking, the smaller you are, the more you lose. 
   But even our big farms, our biggest farms, large-scale farms, more than a fourth of them are losing money. There is no other segment or society that has as much capital at risk who work so hard and get so little for it as our farmers. Please remember your farmer when you go to the grocery store tonight. When I was a kid 25 percent of the average family budget went for food. Now it is less than 10 percent. And that farmer is subsidizing your quality of life by 15 percent because of his ingenuity and hard work and his willingness to work for less than nothing. He is losing money here. So he is subsidizing your quality of life. Please remember your farmer when you go to the grocery store. You are living as well as you are because he is working as hard as he is. 
   The next one shows the farmer on the tractor. And, boy, has he got a red tractor. And these are the low sales and the medium sales farms, and if you sell a little more, you don't lose as much. 
   You have to be a pretty good farmer today to break even, by the way, and a really good farmer to make money. 
   The next chart: Principal farm operators reporting off-farm work. Boy, the small farms, they are working a lot off the farm, aren't they? I guess you heard the story of the farmer who won $5 million in the lottery. They asked him what he was going to do with it. He says, ``I guess I will just keep farming until it's gone.'' And that is kind of a sick joke but it is true. That is what our farmers are doing. Many of our farmers are farming away those huge assets you saw in the form of land. They are farming those assets away. 
   The next chart, this is principal farm operators and self-employed workers and nonagriculture industries who are at least 65 years old. Every year the average age of our farmers gets almost 1 year older. I know a lot of farmers. I know almost no farmer whose kids want to farm. It is really tough work. There is little financial reward for it. Huge risks, risks that you can't control. Drought, cold weather, frost in the spring, you can't control any of these things and you are at risk by all of those. A very serious problem. Our farmers are getting older and older and who is going to replace them? 
   Next chart: Gross sales of $1 million or more. And it is still the family farm but these are, many of them, big family farms. They farm their farm and they lease maybe ten farms around them. And the others have the nice quality of life of living on a farm. And you can have cover 100 acres of land and you lease it to one of these big farmers, and they will be a family farm and they may spend 6 days a year on your farm. They come in with two combines and cut the whole thing. They put Paraquat on it that kills the weeds in the spring and then in 1 day they will plant the whole farm to corn, for instance. They may spend 6 days a year on your farm total. 
   The next chart is a really interesting chart, and this shows the problem that we would be in if we hadn't been as efficient as we have been. And you saw from those previous charts how our efficiency has slowed that rate of increase in the use of oil, of energy generally, and this shows the avoided supply. That is our efficiency. Wow, that is about a third of it, isn't it?     
   We would be using a third more if it weren't that we were as efficient as we are. 
   So what do we do now? Well, I mentioned that I thought that we needed a national program that had the total commitment of World War II. Everybody has to be involved. These two articles, boy, I was appreciative for these two articles. We scheduled this time with you before these articles came out. This was great that they came out because they make my point. We face huge problems. 
   I have a bill, H.R. 80, the Self-Powered Farm Energy bill. If our farmers can't produce enough energy to run their farm and a bit more for the guy who lives in town, we're in for a really rough time, aren't we? So this is a bill which challenges our farmers to be energy independent. And there's a reward for that. This is not going to cost the taxpayer much money. You know, people work really, really hard for an award, maybe harder than they would work if you were paying them. We are going to give an award for this, for the farms that do the best in this. And we think there is a lot of creativity and ingenuity out there and we should do very well with this. 
   Another bill that's a good bill, H.R. 670, the so-called DRIVE bill, and  American Energy For America's Future, the bipartisan DRIVE Act, Dependence Reduction through Innovation in Vehicles and Energy Act. By the way, driving that SUV does not make you safer. Look at the fatality statistics. They are higher in the SUV than the family car. Because they turn over so easily, the actual fatality figures are higher for the SUV than they are for the standard family car. You don't need to be in an SUV to be safer. 
   Well, Mr. Chairman, I think that Americans will really rally to this challenge. As I have said, there is no exhilaration like the exhilaration of meeting and overcoming a big challenge, and boy, this is a huge challenge. And I think properly motivated, the American people will turn to and demonstrate to the world that we are still the most creative, innovative society in the world. I think we can again become an exporting Nation. 
   There is going to be a lot of technology associated with moving to these sustainable alternatives. Who better than we to develop those technologies. And let's sell them to the world. Let's not turn over the manufacture of these technologies to somebody overseas, let's sell them to the world. 
   There are two reasons for doing this. One is that if we are going to maintain anything like the quality of life we have now, we really need to do this. And the other thing is there is going to be a mad global scramble for energy. If we haven't led the way, if somebody hasn't led the way to move us to renewables, what will the world do when we come to the reality that there just isn't going to be enough oil there? 
   Just one little note in closing. We need to rethink a lot of things. Our whole financial structure needs to be rethought. If you think about our financial structure, and I am not an economist, I don't think you have to be an economist to understand obvious things. When we put more money in circulation, it is printed by the Feds. And they put it into the circulation by loaning it to somebody. Now, if there are only two of us in the world, and I borrow money and I have to pay interest on it, one of two things has to happen, either there has to be growth so that I have the money to pay the interest with, or you, if you are the only other guy in the world, you have to lose money. So I have some of your money so that I can pay interest on the money that I borrowed. That's why we start to shudder about the economy when it drops below 2 percent growth. Because we can't imagine an economy that doesn't include growth because our whole financial system is predicated on growth. We have got to have growth. 
   Now, we can have growth without using more energy if we become more efficient. That's a challenge. So we still can grow some. But that is not limitless growth because that you can't be infinitely efficient. So we will have to, one day, sooner or later, come to the realization that we've got to have a financial system that doesn't require growth. But we can do that. 
   We have met a whole lot of challenges in the past and done very well with overcoming. And Mr. Speaker, I am very encouraged that with proper leadership, and you know, I will tell you, we don't have much oil in this country, but we have even less real leadership on energy. But with responsible leadership in this country, I think that Americans will heed to, and we will surprise the world with what we can do in meeting the challenges of peak oil. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (WELCOMING THE REVEREND ERIC W. JORGENSEN -- (House of Representatives - October 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Madam Speaker, I want to thank one of my constituents, Pastor Eric W. Jorgensen of St. Stephen's Reformed Episcopal Church in Eldersburg, Maryland, for serving as a guest chaplain of the House of Representatives and providing us a beautiful prayer before we begin our work. 
   This is a tradition begun by Benjamin Franklin that has been followed ever since by the House of Representatives and the Senate. Benjamin Franklin, then 82 years of age, rose during a moment of crisis during our Constitutional Convention. This is part of what he said: ``In the days of our contest with Great Britain when we were sensible of danger, we had daily prayer in this room for divine protection. I have lived, sir, a long time, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth, that God governs in the affairs of men. If a sparrow cannot fall without his notice, can a Nation rise without his aid? 
   ``I therefore beg leave to move that henceforth prayers imploring the assistance of heaven and its blessings on our deliberations be held in this assembly every morning before we begin to proceed to any other business.'' 
   Thank you, Mr. Franklin, for this precedent. Thank you, Pastor Jorgensen, for helping to continue this great tradition. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (CAMPAIGN FINANCE REFORM AND PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - March 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor today to address two very timely items. One is a just-released report by the General Accountability Office entitled: ``Crude Oil: Uncertainty about future oil supply make it important to develop a strategy for addressing a peak and decline in oil production.'' This report was released at a news conference at two o'clock today, and so we want to spend some time discussing this report. 
   But there is also the fifth anniversary of the adoption of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act, and so I wanted to take a few minutes to talk about this Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act. 
   This is the fifth anniversary. In 2002 when we debated this law, there were those who looked upon our deliberations as inconsequential because they thought that either the President would veto the bill or the Supreme Court would overturn the law. Indeed, the President did not veto it because he said that the Supreme Court would probably overturn at least a very important part of that law. Except the President signed the bill and the Supreme Court upheld it. 
   As it turned out, the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act has great consequences, the erosion of Americans' first amendment rights to freedom of speech. With regard to speech, the first amendment to the Constitution simply States Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech or the press or the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to petition the government for a redress of grievances. 
   I think it is worth just a moment, Mr. Speaker, to reflect on how we got here in this country and the milieu in which our Founding Fathers wrote this first amendment to the Constitution. 
   Our Founding Fathers came here primarily from the British Isles and the European continent, and they came here to seek relief from two tyrannies. One was the tyranny of the church and the other was the tyranny of the Crown, and they address both of these two tyrannies in the first two amendments. 
   Indeed, in the first amendment, they address their concerns both for the tyranny of the church, shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, do not make a State religion, and furthermore, let people free to worship however they wish. And the tyranny of the Crown. They wanted to make sure that the people could say whatever they wished about governing. It was political speech that they most wanted to protect. 
   And to understand that, you have to go to the second amendment. The second amendment again was to assure that our people would never ever be persecuted, oppressed by a central government, because they said that every citizen had the right to be a member of the militia and to carry a gun. They said that was in order to secure freedom in our country, that every person should have the right to carry a gun. 
   So this was the milieu in which this amendment was written, and the speech that our Founding Fathers found most precious was political speech, and it is just this speech that this unfortunate legislation denies our people of all rights derived constitutionally. The Framers dedicated little formal debate to freedom of speech. It was not until the 20th century that Supreme Court actions began to address the definition of free speech. Until that time, the only limitation placed on the press involved slander or libel. They felt they did not have to talk about it because it was generally understood how important that right was to the people. 
   Freedom of speech did not generate great debate amongst the Founders, who believed that this freedom was so basic that no lengthy debate or independent editorials were needed.     
   One can only surmise that by its prominent location in the Bill of Rights that the Founders agreed that freedom of speech was an obvious right of any citizen. The Bill of Rights was designed to protect rights so important that it was necessary to explicitly restrict the government usurping these rights from the people. Our government serves the people, not the other way around. You might wonder about that from some of the laws we pass here. 
   The concept of freedom of speech depends on truth and opinions expressed openly and honestly by an individual or an association with others by groups. It is a right of our Founders reserved for us. Here in America we cherish being allowed to question our government, to criticize our government and advise our government, those individuals who are elected or appointed leaders of our government.  
   Freedom of speech does have limitations. You can't falsely shout ``fire, fire'' in a crowded movie theater to falsely cause panic. You can't threaten violence or use fighting words to invoke violence. You can't knowingly lie or libel, although here there is a higher standard for proving libel against a public official. 
   Until BCRA, this Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act, a 1976 Supreme Court decision, Buckley v. Vallejo, helped define the framework of public discourse regarding political speech. In part, the decision states, ``Discussion of public issues and the debates on the qualifications of candidates are integral to the operation of a system the government established by our Constitution. The first amendment affords the broadest protection to such political expression in order to assure the unfettered interchange of ideas for the bringing about of political and social changes desired by the people.'' 
   Not my statements, the statements of the Court. 
   The Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 chips away at the unfettered interchanges of ideas the Buckley decision strove to ensure. Of all the provisions in the Campaign Reform Act, I am most concerned with the chilling effect it inflicts on labor unions, trade associations and nonprofit organizations. 
   These are associations that individuals choose to join. The restrictions of these organizations on behalf of Members to engage in issue advocacy under this law must be addressed and reversed. 
   The authors of this legislation were so unsure of the Campaign Reform Act's constitutionality that a severability clause was inserted which provided that if any provision of this Act is held unconstitutional, the remainder of the Act would not be affected. 
   This is hardly the language of a steadfast law, but, rather, language used when treading on shaky constitutional grounds when forging a new dimension or direction of law. This change in the wrong direction limits freedom. I believe it needs to be reversed before more laws limiting freedom of speech are adopted. 
   In particular, the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act limits a citizen's freedom of speech and freedom of association by banning specific groups of issue advocacy before elections at precisely the time when that advocacy is most advantageous to affect change in government. This is the time when voters are most focused on government and whether they are satisfied with their elected representatives. 
   Specifically, this law bans unions, grassroots organizations and trade organizations from using their general Treasury funds to broadcast, issue advocacy and advertisements 30 days before a primary and 60 days before a general. 
   Last year, in my home State of Maryland, due to a September primary date, these groups were banned 90 days from advertising before the general election. Few people were thinking about the general election 90 days before that date. 
   Fortunately, there are two courses of action which are currently being taken. As in past Congresses, I am offering the First Amendment Restoration Act, H.R. 71. This Act simply repeals the most onerous sections of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002, which contorts citizens free speech by lifting the current ban on electioneering communications 30 days before primary and 60 days before a general election. 
   This legislation hopefully may not be necessary. On April 25, the Supreme Court will hear the arguments in the case of Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc. v. FEC. Wisconsin Right to Life has prevailed in a lower Federal court. The facts of the case are these, and I am paraphrasing from the James Madison Center for Free Speech, which is closely watching the case: 
   In 2004, WRTL, Wisconsin Right to Life, challenged a 2002 provision of campaign finance law that prohibits citizens groups from broadcasting communications that mention a Federal candidate during blackout periods before elections. Now, listen to this, because this is very interesting. WRTL had been running grassroots lobbying ads about the filibusters of President Bush's judicial nominees. The ads informed citizens they could call Wisconsin Senator Kohl and Senator Feingold and ask them to oppose the filibusters. This ad did not state the position of either Senator or on the filibuster. Since Senator Feingold was then a candidate, WRTL had to stop its ad many days before the election because of the Campaign Finance Reform Act, which banned electioneering communications. 
   In December, 2006, a Federal district court in D.C. held that the ads were constitutionally protected. I hope so. The case was appealed to the Supreme Court. 
   Members of Congress have intervened in the case so that they could argue that the government has every right to restrict WRTL's ads because they criticize a candidate on the issue. The ad, in fact, did not criticize Senator Feingold. Even if it had, WRTL's brief argues that criticizing official actions by public officials is a bedrock foundation of our government and exactly what our Founding Fathers tried to protect in this first amendment. The people are sovereign, and the government may not silence their criticism. That is what led to the first amendment mandate that Congress should not restrict the people's expression, association and petition. 
   I understand the goals of my colleagues who supported the Campaign Reform Act, disclosure and transparency. I support these goals. Disclosure of how much money was being spent by whom; transparency in identifying the citizens' groups which were sponsoring any electioneering communication. But I maintain that this disclosure is not for the government to demand from the people, but, rather, for the people to demand from the government. 
   Disclosure and transparency are better served when it is the government official who should disclose his votes both on the floor and in committee, his earmarks and direct campaign contributions over which he exercises complete control. It is up to the public to decide motives of elected individuals. Motives of citizens should not be suspect. We cannot be afraid of honest debate. Citizens have the right to express themselves individually or by association. The rights of the citizen must be paramount. 
   That is why on rise I the fifth anniversary of BCRA and to urge support of H.R. 71 to repeal its electioneering communication provisions. I hope the Supreme Court will rule these provisions as 
   unconstitutional. 
   Mr. Speaker, there is another very important thing that happened today, as I mentioned as I began. That is the GAO, the report is dated February 2007, but it was embargoed until today until our press conference, which released it. 
   I have several charts here from that report. I think that might be a good way to begin this discussion. Let's look at the first chart. 
   Now, I have been to the floor a number of times before, and I have shown other versions of this same phenomenon, and that is the reality that our country a number of years ago reached its maximum oil production, and it has been downhill since then. This was predicted in 1956 by a Shell Oil Company scientist to a group of oil engineers and executives in San Antonio, Texas, on the 8th day of March, just a little over 51 years ago. 
   In 1956, he predicted that the United States would reach its maximum oil production in 1970. Now, in 1956, we were perhaps the largest producer of oil in the world. We were a large exporter of oil, and oil was king. 
   The industrial revolution was in full swing, and Shell Oil company told M. King Hubbert that he should not give that speech because he would certainly embarrass himself and them because he was employed by them. He gave the speech anyhow. For 14 years, he was a pariah. 
   On schedule, as he predicted, in 1970, we reached our maximum oil production. He had indicated that at that point about half of all the oil that we would ever produce would have been produced, and the second half, which is reasonable, would be harder to get and, therefore, would be produced more slowly. It would be downhill after that. 
   Yes, you know, advertise a little bump on the downhill. That little bump is that huge supply of oil that we found in Prudhoe Bay, up in Alaska. M. King Hubbert's predictions were for the lower 48. He didn't include the Gulf of  Mexico. There is a little wiggle in the curve, hardly discernible by those discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico. But there was a little blip in the downhill slope, when we lowered the top of Hubbert's peak. So, right on schedule, we peaked in 1979. M. King Hubbert indicated, I think, it was in 1969, he predicted that the world would be peaking about now. 
   The question I always asked myself, if M. King Hubbert was right about the United States, and he gave us the basis of his analysis, which was very logical, if he was right about the United States, and since the United States is obviously a microcosm of the world, why shouldn't he be right about the world? If he was right about the world, shouldn't we have been doing something in anticipation of reaching a maximum oil production beyond which additional oil production would be impossible, prices would rise, oil, $65 a barrel today, and production would inexorably decline. 
   There is nothing that we have done in the United States to stop that. We have drilled more oil wells in the United States than all the rest of the world. Still we have not stopped that downward slope, just that blip from Prudhoe Bay; and now we are down to a bit over half of the oil that we produced in 1970, in spite of a vastly improved technique for enhanced oil recovery, for discovery of oil, 3-D seismic computer modeling and so forth. 
   The next chart that they showed is an interesting contrast, and this is a chart from our Energy Information Agency. In spite of the fact that they know that M. King Hubbert was right about the United States, that we did peak in 1970, and in spite of the fact that they know that he predicted that the world should be peaking about now, and there is every indication that he may have been right, they still are forecasting that the total production of oil, which is now they have it about 80, I think it's now about 85 million barrels a day, will do nothing but go up and up. They have this clear through 2030. 
   Now, they do show that the non-APEC nations are peaking and will fall off. That is true. Most of them have peaked, and they are falling off. But they believe their oil production will simply go up and up. 
   The chances that that is true, by the way, Dr. Lahere, who has written a couple of books on this subject, says it is absolutely impossible, considering the vastly improved techniques we have for finding oil. They are predicting that we will have as much more oil as all of the reserves we now know to exist in this country, that we are going to find at least that much more oil. 
   The next chart is a compilation of a number of authorities and their predictions of when peaking will occur. Some of them have very, narrow projections. A number of people think that peaking has already occurred. Others have gross uncertainty in their predictions. It could be any time between now and the next century. But if you look at the preponderance of these, most of these authorities believe that peaking will occur or could occur before 2020. 
   Now, of course, this kind of a consensus by the world's leaders is grossly inconsistent with the chart that we just saw where our Energy Information Agency is projecting an ever upward and upward projection production of oil. 
   The next chart is an interesting one which they showed us, and this is worldwide proven oil reserves by political risk. This is a very good report, and they are a very credible organization, which is why I asked them to do this report a bit more than a year ago. I am pleased it is out now, because they do have a lot of credibility. When the GAO speaks, people tend to listen. 
   They note that there are a lot of uncertainties about when the peak will occur, and probably the biggest uncertainties have less to do with how much oil is under the ground rather than risks above ground. One of these risks is a political risk. A lot of oil comes from places like Saudi Arabia and Venezuela and Iraq and Iran and Kuwait and so forth. So they list here the high political risk, the medium political risk, and the low political risk. 
   You see here that about two-thirds of all the oil in the world is in countries where, by their judgment and the judgment of experts which they quote, either high risk or medium risk. Indeed, the night before last, when England and Iran were kind of yelling at each other over the sailors that Iran has taken, oil jumped up $4. Now, it quieted down by yesterday morning, so oil was only up a bit more than $1 yesterday. But this shows the volatility of the market relative to the political uncertainty in these areas. 
   The next chart is a really interesting chart, and it shows another risk, and that is investment risk. A venture capitalist is unwilling to invest in places where they may lose their capital or a country, for instance, which now will permit venture capital but tomorrow may decide they are going to nationalize all the oil fields. Then you have lost all of your investment. So they are listing this by high and medium and low. 
   By the way, for about a third of all the places that oil comes from, there is no foreign investment, also no foreign visibility. We just have to go by faith on how much oil is in their reserves, because they won't let our people in. You can't make any investments there.     
   But I think here about 95 percent of all the oil in the world represents, in their view, high and medium risk. So when you add the political risk and the investment risk, you have a lot of uncertainty as to how much oil we are going to produce in the future, and this is added to the uncertainty of how much is there and when we will, in fact, reach that maximum capacity for producing oil. 
   The next chart is an interesting one. And I should have brought another one that shows it in a very poignant way by showing what the world would look like if the nations' size was determined by how much oil they have. And of course we are dwarfed in that because Saudi Arabia has many, many times as much oil as we. We represent a fourth of the world's economy and we have two percent of the world's oil. We use a fourth of the world's oil and import almost two-thirds of what we use. 
   Here they have the oil in the non-OPEC nations and the oil in Saudi Arabia. Look how big Saudi Arabia is. And then the rest of the OPEC nations, and then they have blown this up over here so you can see who else is involved in the OPEC nations. Notice that, what, over three-fourths of all of the oil is controlled by OPEC nations, and about a fourth of all of that oil comes from Saudi Arabia alone. 
   The next chart is a really interesting one and this shows, the two bars here, and one, these are the top 10 companies on the basis of oil production and reserve holdings. Now, these reserve holdings are sort of iffy, because for most of these countries there is little or no transparency, and they really won't let us look at their data. But we do know who is producing oil. 
   And here we see that big guys like ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell and BP and so forth are producing 22 percent of the oil. And Saudi Arabia, a bunch of national companies are producing 78 percent of the oil. 
   But look at the next bar over there, and that shows you who owns the oil. Ninety-eight percent of all that oil is owned, our big guys here that are pumping it, they don't own any of it. They have leases. They don't own the oil. The oil is owned by mostly OPEC Middle East countries and there they have up top, and that ought to be shaded gray because LUK Oil, I don't know if LUK oil is private or whether it is national. It is a huge oil company in Russia. 
   Well, this points to the problems that we have, and these problems encouraged 30 of our prominent citizens, Boyden Gray and Jim Woolsey and McFarland and 27 others, a couple of years ago to write a letter to the President with these facts in mind saying, Mr. President, the fact that we have only 2 percent of the known reserves of oil and we use 25 percent of the world's oil, and import two-thirds of what we use, and as the President says, much of that from countries that don't even like us, read down that list, this represents a totally unacceptable national security risk. And, Mr. President, we really need to do something about that. 
   Well, the next chart is the one that I stopped with a couple of weeks ago when I was on the floor here, and I  want to spend the rest of the time that we have today in talking about this chart. And, indeed, we could spend a couple of weeks talking about the chart, because what this looks at is the potential alternatives to these fossil fuels. 
   I would like to mention that there are several groups that have common cause in that area. Al Gore came to the Congress last week, I believe it was, and testified before obviously a packed committee room. He believes that we have global warming. Indeed, I think, a majority of our citizens and a majority of scientists now believe that we have global warming. You may or may not agree with whether our Earth is warming or not, but if you believe that we have a national security risk because we get too much of our oil from overseas, or if you believe that it simply may not be there because the world will peak out and there won't be enough oil because the demand keeps going up at about 2 percent, exponential growth, then you would want to do pretty much exactly the same things that those people who believed we have global warming want to do. 
   They want to get away from the fossil fuels because what we are doing in using these fossil fuels is releasing carbon dioxide that has been locked up by nature for a very long number of years. And we are now releasing that over a very short time period. We have about 8,000 years of recorded history in the world, and the age of oil, from pumping that first barrel of oil to pumping the last economically feasible barrel of oil, will probably be about 300 years. We are about 150 years into the age of oil, and in another 150 years we will probably have transitioned out of the age of oil and gas and coal. This is a relatively short time in the history of the world. 
   As I mentioned before, with the knowledge that M. King Hubbert was right about the United States, and we knew that of a certainty by 1980, because when we were already 10 years down the other side of Hubbert's peak. And the Reagan administration, my second most favorite President, decided that the thing to do, which by the way was totally the wrong thing to do, the thing to do was to encourage, to give our oil people a profit motive to go out and find oil. Now, you can't find oil that is not there. And you can't pump oil you haven't found. 
   But they were encouraged to drill, and drill they did. We now have 530,000 operating oil wells in our country. That is more oil wells than drilled in all of the rest of the world. They drilled and drilled. And if you have a pot that compares drilling with production, you will see that there was little or no increase in production as a result of this drilling, because this was 1980. We are already 10 years down the other side of Hubbert's peak and you can't pump what is not there. And M. King Hubbert was right, and we couldn't reverse that by drilling more wells. So now we are faced or will be faced very shortly in the future with the reality that we can't pump more oil; that we will have reached peak oil. And as you saw, a majority of all the experts in the world believe that that is either present or imminent. So we began to look for alternatives for this. 
   Now, I know that for the last several years we have had some programs in Congress where we have been sponsoring green things like corn, ethanol and so forth; and this is supposed to free us from our large dependence on fossil fuels. There are some finite resources. These are fossil fuels, but they are not the oil that we ordinarily, or gas or coal we ordinarily exploit. And they are exploitable. And we will get some energy from them. How much is yet to be determined. 
   Let me mention some of those. There are the tar sands in Alberta, Canada. These are huge reserves. They represent as much potential oil as all the known reserves of oil in the world, perhaps more than that. So why should we worry since there is that much there? They are now aggressively exploiting those fields. They have a shovel that lifts 100 tons at a time. They dump it into a truck that hauls 400 tons, and they haul it to a big cooker where they cook it and this oil, which is too stiff to flow, now is heated up so it will flow and some short chain volatiles are added to it so it will continue to flow when it is cooled. 
   And they are now producing about a million barrels a day. Boy, a million barrels a day. I can hardly count to a million. That sounds like a lot. And it is a lot. 
   But it is just barely over 1 percent of the 84 or 85 million barrels a day that our world produces and our world consumes. And they are using enormous amounts of energy, from what we call stranded natural gas. Now, natural gas is stranded when it is in a place where there aren't very many people. And since natural gas is hard to transport, it is very cheap there and so we say it is stranded. So they have some cheap gas there and they are using this gas, and I am told, everything you are told is not true, but I am told that they may be using more energy from the natural gas than they are getting out of the oil. 
   But from a dollar and cents perspective, it makes good sense because it takes them somewhere between 18 and $25 a barrel to make the oil, and it is selling today I think for about $65 a barrel, so that is a pretty good markup. 
   But the profit ratio you really should be looking at is the energy profit ratio. How much energy do you get out per unit of energy that you put in. And they may be getting out less than they put in. They know that what they are doing now is not sustainable for two reasons. One is the natural gas there will not last forever. Indeed, talking about natural gas, we have peaked in natural gas in our country. That stunned us. It was a couple of years ago we reached our maximum production of natural gas. We thought that was way off in the future. We reached that a couple of years ago. They know the natural gas will run out so they are talking about building maybe a nuclear power plant there to get energy to cook this oil. But another problem looms. 
   This vein, if you can think of it as a vein, is now near the surface or on the surface and so they are in effect mining it with huge pits. And they have a huge lake they call a detailing lake. It is really pretty noxious stuff there. And environmentalists are very concerned about it. But, soon, this vein will duck under an overlay and economically, they won't be able to take off that overlay. So what they are going to have to did is develop it in situ. And they yet don't know, economically, whether that is doable or not. So although there are potentially enormous amounts of energy available there, how much can we really get out, net energy? 
   Now, we may be getting out less than nothing net energy. We may be putting in more energy from natural gas than we are getting out of the oil. But the natural gas is stranded. It is hard to ship and the oil is in high demand and so it makes dollar and cents sense to do this. 
   Then we have the oil shales and they are a little different. They are not just a very heavy oil. It is bound in a rock, and it can be released with heat and pressure. And these reserves, primarily in Colorado or Utah, are enormous, perhaps as large as the tar sands in Alberta, Canada. So why aren't we sanguine about our future since we have a lot of this in our country? 
   None of this has really been economically exploited so far. In the last few years, Shell has conducted an interesting experiment there. They have gone in and drilled a number of holes and frozen those so as to kind of make a frozen vessel because they don't want this oil they are producing to leak out to contaminate aquifers. And then they cook it for a year, drill some other holes in the middle and cook it for a year. And they have gotten meaningful amounts after some processing because it doesn't start out as an oil. They get some meaningful amounts of oil from it. But, you know, how much can we surge that? How much will it cost to build? What is really the energy profit ratio from that? 
   The news accounts of this have been much more optimistic than the Shell Oil scientist who gave a report in Denver, Colorado, a couple of years ago that I attended. And he said, I think, that it would be 2012 or 2013 before they even knew whether it would be economically feasible to develop those oil shales the way they were developing them. Potentially, there is an enormous amount of energy there. 
   Let me note also that there is an incredible amount of energy in the tides. The moon lifts the whole ocean, what,  2 or 3 feet. I carry two 5-gallon buckets of water, and they are heavy. This is a lot of energy. So why should we worry about the future? We have got all that energy from the tides. The reason to worry is that the energy is out there, but it is frightfully difficult to harness it. There is an old adage that says energy, to be useful, must be concentrated; and it is certainly not concentrated in the tides. And we have huge engineering problems in getting energy out of these oil shales. It may be there, but it is not something you would want to bet the ranch on. 
   The third one is coal. And there will be people who tell you don't worry about our future; we have 250 years of coal at current use rates. That is true. But be very careful when people say at current use rates because if we increase our use of coal only 2 percent, and I submit we will have to ramp up its use more than that as we run down the other side of Hubbert's peak and more and more energy is needed, but if we increase our use of coal only 2 percent, that 250 years shrinks to 85 years. You have to understand that at 2 percent increase, it doubles, that it is compounded, exponentially compounded, it doubles in 35 years. It is four times bigger in 70 years. It is eight times bigger in 105 years. This phenomenon, Albert Einstein said, was the most powerful force in the universe. He was asked, after the discovery of atomic energy, Dr. Einstein, what will be next? And he said, well, the most powerful force in the universe is the power of compound interest, and that is what we have here in this exponential compound growth.     
   But for most of our uses, we can't use coal. You can use electricity with it, but you can't run your car with it. So if we are now going to gasify or liquefy the coal, which, by the way, is very easy to do. Hitler ran his whole country on it, and South Africa did a lot of that, too. So we know how to do that, but it takes energy to do that. And if the energy to do that comes from coal, now you have reduced the supply of coal to about 50 years. 
   But we live in a world economy, and we share our oil with the world. It really doesn't matter today who owns the resource. He who has the dollars can buy it. It is bid up, which is why it is different prices different days, and he who has the dollars buys it. 
   So if we have to share our oil with the world, there is not much of a way to do that. Since if we keep all our coal, we won't be buying oil from someplace else, and they will therefore have the oil, and to a very large degree energy is fungible. So our 50-year supply of oil, if we share it with the world, shrinks to 12 1/2 years. Big deal. With only a 2 percent increase and the use of coal, if we convert it to a gas or a liquid and share it with the world, our 250 years shrinks to 12 1/2 years. There is a lot of energy there. 
   And, by the way, when you use coal, you have reduced more greenhouse gasses than using either gas or oil. So those who are concerned about climate change will have some big concerns about using coal. If your only concerns are national security and peak oil, you have less concerns about using coal. 
   But, in any event, it is not our savior. You can't sleep well tonight because we have 250 years of coal at the current use rate. Because with an increased demand of only 2 percent, converting it to a gas or a liquid and sharing it with the world, that shrinks to 12 1/2 years. 
   The next two subjects we are going to talk about briefly are sources of energy from nuclear. We get 8 percent of our total energy from nuclear. We get 20 percent of our electricity from nuclear. When you drive home tonight, note every fifth business and every fifth house would be dark if it weren't for nuclear energy. 
   I have some friends who were strong opponents of nuclear energy. They are very bright people. And now they are looking at a future where the trade-off may be between having more nuclear and shivering in the dark without enough energy for light and heat. And when they look at those two alternatives, they are taking a new look at nuclear. 
   There are problems with nuclear. There are three fundamentally different ways you can produce nuclear energy. One is from the light water reactor. That is the only energy source we use. It uses fission nuclear uranium, and there is a finite supply of fission nuclear uranium in the world. We need an honest broker to tell us how much is there at current use rates and how much will be there if we ramp up the use, and we will ramp up the use. 
   China is now aggressively designing new nuclear power plants. They are building a coal-fired power plant, two a week. They have got to. They have got 1.3 billion people who want to abandon their bicycle and buy a car, and they are faced with kind of a mass revolt if they don't permit their people to enjoy the benefits of an industrialized society like the rest of the world does. 
   By the way, China has a bit less coal than we. They are mining more of it, so their coal will end before ours. So they are building a lot of coal-fired power plants, but they are also, I understand, planning to build 50 nuclear power plants. We haven't built one in about 30 years in our country. There has never been an accident or a death. There are accidents in coal mines, a lot more in China than here. We do a pretty good job, but still we have accidents and people die. They die from black lung disease from breathing polluted air. They die at the railroad crossing being hit by the train. We never seem to have a concern about the people who die as a result of using coal. 
   No one has ever died, there has not been any serious accident with nuclear, and a large number of people are concerned about nuclear. And there are problems with the waste product of nuclear because the second choice is a breeder reactor. If, in fact, we run out of fission nuclear uranium, then we will have to go to a breeder reactor. Our only experience with that in this country is building nuclear weapons. We have no commercial breeder reactors. They do, as the name implies, produce fuel; and they produce more fuel than they use. So you are kind of home free, except you have a huge problem with moving this stuff around and enriching it, and it is weapons grade kinds of stuff, so there are a lot of concerns. 
   I just have a notion, Mr. Speaker, that anything that is so hot that I can't get close to it for a quarter of a million years ought to have enough energy left in it to do something useful in it, wouldn't you think? You see, we call this spent fuel, and we have taken out only a relatively few percent of the energy of this fuel. 
   I would like to challenge our engineering and scientific people, and we have the most creative and innovative society in the world, to figure out what we can do with this thing which is now a huge liability and we are fighting over where to put it. We have put billions of dollars into Yucca Mountain out in Nevada, and we may not put it there. It is now stored in the back 40 or underwater in our roughly 800 nuclear power plants in this country. So there are problems with nuclear. 
   But there are also problems with not having energy and not going to be able to make nitrogen fertilizer for corn and not having heat for your house, and we need to rethink those. 
   The type of nuclear that gets us home free is fusion. By the way, we do have a huge fusion reactor. It is called the sun. That is what it is doing up there, and we have lots of energy from the sun. I understand that more energy from the sun falls on the Earth on any one sunny day than we use in a whole year if we could only capture that. 
   By the way, we are using sun energy, of course. Almost every energy source we use comes from or came from the sun. It was the sun that caused the plants to grow from which coal was made. Boy, do I know that. As a little kid in Western Pennsylvania, we had a coal furnace and we bought coal, which went from dust to big blocks of coal, some so big I couldn't put them in the furnace. There was a sledgehammer there leaning against the wall, and I would break the lump of coal to put it in the furnace, and sometimes it would break open and there was a fern leaf. Boy, I remember the feelings that went through me, and they still kind of do, when I looked at that fern leaf. And I said to myself how long ago did that grow and fall into the bog and with time and pressure and Earth being washed over, it became whole. 
   Most people believe that all of the oil and gas that we have is the result of subtropical lakes from a very long time ago. We see it now in algae that grows and it falls to the bottom. It has  a cycle. It matures and falls to the bottom. Dirt washes in from the surrounding hills, more the next year. More dirt washes in. So most of our oil and gas is not in big lakes down there. It is trapped between grains of sand and rock and so forth. All of this, of course, is secondhand sun energy. 
   We get some direct sun energy. You can warm your house if your window faces south. It can produce electricity for you if you put solar panels on your roof. If you put a wind machine up, by the way, that is secondhand sun energy because the wind blows because of differential heating of the Earth. 
   It is no wonder, Mr. Speaker, when you look at what the sun does for us why many of our ancients worshipped the sun. As a matter of fact, the first Sunday after the first full moon after the vernal equinox was an ancient pagan holiday because a new spring had come. The day and night were of equal length. So the first Sunday after the first full moon, and I have no idea why after the first full moon, it was a celebration to the goddess of fertility. Let's have lots of animals and let our crops grow well, and they were appealing to the goddess of fertility to make that happen. 
   I wondered as a little kid what relationship chickens and eggs and bunnies had to the Resurrection, because we call it Easter; and I was a big boy before I learned that, of course, it didn't have any relationship. But as a little kid I lived on a farm, and I knew rabbits didn't lay eggs, but in my Easter basket were rabbits and eggs, and that confused me. And then I went to church and we talked about the Crucifixion. What in the heck do rabbits and eggs have to do with the Crucifixion? The answer, of course, is nothing. 
   But very early in Christianity we wanted to make it attractive to the pagans, so we attached pagan significance to Christian holidays, and these are symbols of fertility. I once had a few rabbits, and pretty soon I had a whole lot of rabbits. And we now have bantam chickens, and if you let them do what they would like to do, they steal a nest out and they hatch and you would have a lot of bantam chickens by fall. So these were examples of fertility, and that is why we had them there. 
   If you are counting on nuclear fusion to solve our problems, you are probably counting on the lottery to solve your personal economic problems. I would have plan B, and I support all the money, about $250 million a year, we spend in nuclear fusion. But, boy, I want to have a plan B. We are really home free if we have nuclear fusion, because it is producing the same kind of energy that is produced from the sun. We have essentially an infinite supply of the raw materials here to make it, and it is nonpolluting except for the heat that it produces. But that is my personal conviction. Others think that they are better; some think they are worse. I think the odds are about the same as the odds of your winning the lottery. So if you are comfortable with solving your personal financial problems winning the lottery, you are probably comfortable believing we are going to solve our energy problems with nuclear fusion. 
   Well, once we are through those and whatever we can get from nuclear for the long term and are willing to live with, then we come to the true renewables: solar and wind and geothermal and ocean energy, agricultural resources. There are a whole host of those. Let's just look at those one by one. 
   The solar industry, that is, the solar panels, quite miraculously just a little bit of silicon there, and it is converting sun rays into electricity, and I have them and they produce electricity and charge some big batteries, and we get lights and run power tools and so forth from the energy stored in the battery. That industry in 2000 represented .07 percent of our total energy. That has really grown since 2000. Today, it still represents far less than 1 percent. It is growing 30 percent a year, more than 30 percent a year. 
   They had some recent problems with silicon, because they are competing with the semiconductor industry, and they are growing so rapidly, and there weren't enough silicon plants. The silicon people were very edgy because they built some plants in the 1970s when oil was way up and then it dropped down to $10 a barrel and nobody wanted solar panels anymore, and they got stuck with factories for which they had no market for their product, and so the investors were unwilling. I think they are kind of getting by that because most people think that oil is not going down to anything near $10 a barrel in the future. 
   Solar electricity today is produced at about 25, 26 cents a kilowatt hour. That is high. But the cost of electricity is going up. And, by the way, the more we learn about these solar panels, the more we make and the cost comes down. But, unfortunately, the price of lead is going up; and still the cheapest, most cost-efficient battery for storing energy is the lead acid battery. So as the cost of the solar panels comes down, the cost of batteries goes up. So if you want a self-sufficient system, the cost of that total system is not declining. If you simply want a grid tie, produce enough electricity, you can run your meter backwards. 
   We are trying to get legislation through to encourage our States, and I think that is all we ought to do, because I am an advocate of States' rights, to enact what is called net metering, that if you produce more electricity to use, they will buy it from you. This distributed production, by the way, is enormously important from a national security perspective. 
   Unlike electricity, if you put a gallon of oil in a pipe and it goes a thousand miles, you get a gallon of oil out. You put electricity in a wire and if you run it far enough, you don't get anything out the other end, what is called line losses. So having distributed production has a lot of advantages. Not everything is down when the power plant is down. And, furthermore, you have less line loss because you are producing it closer to where it is used. So we ought to be using that a whole lot more than we are. 
   There are thin films and there are still some technical problems in developing those economically, but these thin films, and some of the silicon things, too, can be put in things like the shingles on your roof. They look just like any other shingle, but they produce electricity. The siding on your house. Indeed, there is glass that you can get. It will look like the glass with a dark filter on it, but there is glass that you can put in your windows that will let light in and produce electricity at the same time. So there are some exciting things that are being developed in this area. 
   I spent New Year's Eve in Shanghai, and we met in China and had lunch with the young man who about 5 years ago started what is now the second largest solar panel manufacturer in the world.     
   Suntec, I think he calls his industry, and they now have a subsidiary in this country. 
   By the way, the top five producers of solar cells are in China and Japan. Number one is Sharp, and that is Japan. We used to have Solarex out in my district, now BP Solar, used to be number two in the world. Now they are not even among the top ten in the world. 
   This is the most creative, innovative society in the world that invented the solar cell. I worked at Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Lab. We put the first solar powered satellite in space. The United States invented that. Like so much of the technology we invent, somebody else is benefiting from it. 
   I want the United States to be a leader in these areas. Indeed, I believe that we have such a creative, innovative society, that if we really challenge our people, we can become a world leader again; not just a world leader in how much oil we use, but a world leader in moving to these alternative ways of producing energy. 
   So I think there is a great future for solar, and I would like legislation out there that encourages people to put it on their roofs and encourages companies to build the plants. It is a national security issue. 
   Wind. Wind is now producing electricity in our country at about 2.5 cents per kilowatt hour. By the way, the leader in this in the world is little Denmark. Again, shame on us. The largest industrial country in the world, the leader technologically in the world, and Denmark is leading the world in building wind machines. They are really efficient.  
   The little ones we used to produce, the blades turned very fast and they might kill birds and baths. Now they have huge blades. A single blade may be 60, 70 feet long. You may have seen them being moved down the highway. They move very slowly. It would have to be a really debilitated bat or bird that got caught by one of those. 
   Indeed, if you are really concerned about bats and birds, then don't have picture windows. I am sure, not so many for the bats, but the bird, you are are going to lose more birds on your picture window than you will ever lose from that wind machine that you put up to produce electricity. 
   We have wind farms out in the West. In the East here there are some Senators that are big proponents of wind, but not in my backyard. The NIMBY factor is very prominent. They would like that, but not in their view shed, thank you. 
   You know, pretty is as pretty does, and I think these wind machines are beautiful. Knowing what they do, I think they are very stylish just on their own. But knowing what they are doing they become even handsomer. 
   Geothermal. Now, this is true geothermal. If you go to Iceland, there is not a chimney in Iceland because all of their heating, all of their energy like that in Iceland comes from geothermal. They are close enough to the molten core of the Earth that they can get hot water. That is how they heat their houses and produce their energy there. 
   We call geothermal something which is a really good idea, but it is not geothermal. We call geothermal those heat pumps that we tie to ground or groundwater, rather than rather stupidly to the air. 
   If you think about your air conditioner in the summer, what you are trying to do is heat up the outside air. That may be 90 degrees. If you are trying to heat up groundwater in Maryland here, it is 56 degrees. That is really cool compared to 90 degrees, isn't it? And what you are trying to do in the wintertime is to cool the outside air with your heat pump. 
   It is a whole lot easier to cool 56 degree air. That looks really warm compared to 10 degree air. That 60 degree water is very warm compared to 10 degree air. So you get a lot more efficiency out of your heat pump. People will call that geothermal. That is okay. Please put it in quotes, because it is not true geothermal. True geothermal ties you to the Earth. 
   We are going to have to come back another day to talk about the rest of this, because I just wanted to skip down here to ethanol. Because there was this week, and we have only about 5 minutes remaining, there was this week in the Washington Post on Sunday, the Outlook Section, a really interesting article. ``Corn Can't Solve Our Problem,'' it says. 
   The first paragraph is really interesting. ``The world has gone full circle. A century ago our first transportation, biofuels, the hay and oats fed to our horses, were replaced by gasoline. Today, ethanol from corn and biodiesel from soybeans have begun edging out gasoline and diesel. Lost in the ethanol induced euphoria, however, is the fact that three of our most fundamental needs, food, energy and a livable and sustainable environment, are now in direct conflict.'' 
   Interesting. I have here an article, and again we will come back again to talk about this, a really interesting talk given by Hyman Rickover 50 years ago the 14th of this May to a group of physicians in St. Paul, Minnesota, and he talks about this. He cautioned that if we try to get energy from our agriculture, we are going to be in competition with food. 
   Let me read from the jump page here what they say about this. It is really interesting. 
   ``But because of how corn ethanol currently is made, only about 20 percent of each gallon is new energy.'' Eighty percent of all the energy you get out of a gallon of ethanol simply comes from the fossil fuels that are kind of recycled. The natural gas which made the nitrogen fertilizer, almost half the energy producing corn comes from that. The oil that made the tractor and the tires and the diesel fuel that pulled it through the fields and the energy used to mine the phosphate and potash rock and so forth, only 20 percent of every gallon represents new energy. 
   So they say this: If every one of our 70 million acres on which corn was grown in 2006, if we use all of that corn to produce ethanol, we would displace only 12 percent of our gasoline. And if you discount that for the fossil fuel simply recycled by growing the corn and processing the corn to produce ethanol, you now get just 2.4 percent of our gasoline displaced by ethanol. If we use all of our corn to produce ethanol, they very wisely note that you could have reached that same objective by getting your car tuned up and putting air in your tires. 
   Now, we are making a lot of corn ethanol. But compared to the 21 million barrels of oil that we use a day, 70 percent of that in transportation, we have produced relatively negligible amounts of ethanol. But it was enough to drive the price of corn from $2.11 a bushel in September to $4.08 a bushel in November, and up from that. And the poor Mexicans now are hungry because their tortillas have doubled in price, and my dairy farmers are going bankrupt because the cost of the food they feed their cows is up. 
   Just a caution, that one needs to be realistic rather than euphorically optimistic about how much energy we are going to get out of these alternatives. 
   I would like to say in closing, Mr. Speaker, that I am exhilarated by this. There is no exhilaration like meeting and overcoming a big problem. And we have a huge challenge. I believe with proper leadership, we may not have much energy, we have even less real leadership in this area, with proper leadership, I think that Americans could be exhilarated by the challenge. I think we would again become a major exporter with all of the technologies for producing energy from these alternatives. 
   Mr. Speaker, this is not a bad news story. This is a really good news story. America can lead the way. They can again be a real leader in the world. And I can imagine Americans going to bed at night saying, today I used less energy than I did yesterday and I am just fine. Tomorrow I am going to do even better. I think there would be fewer people on alcohol and watching bad movies and so forth if they had some real direction. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (ANIMAL FIGHTING PROHIBITION ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, with my colleagues Mr. GALLEGLY and Mr. BLUMENAUER, I have introduced H.R. 137 to establish felony-level jail time of up to 3 years for those who violate the law against animal fighting. H.R. 137 would amend current law to toughen the maximum jail time from a one-year misdemeanor. 
   The penalties in the existing federal animal fighting statute are too weak. The upgraded penalty better aligns federal law with state law. Almost all states have established felony-level penalties for illegal animal fighting activities. State laws commonly authorize jail time of 3 to 5 years or more for animal fighting. 
   George Bernard Shaw once stated, ``The worst sin toward our fellow creatures is not to hate them, but to be indifferent to them, that's the essence of inhumanity.'' We should not be indifferent to the reprehensible underground organized crime of animal fighting, which is not only cruel but poses threats to public health and safety. 
   The Humane Society of the U.S. estimates that there are at least 40,000 dogfighters in America. Cockfighting has been tied to the spread of bird flu. Animal fighting spawns a number of other criminal activities, such as illegal gambling and using and selling drugs. Even more disturbing is the conclusion by many experts that acts of cruelty against animals are precursors to violence against humans. The felony-level penalties against animal fighting in H.R. 137 are necessary, and I urge my colleagues to support the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (CELEBRATING AMERICA'S HERITAGE ACT -- (House of Representatives - October 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Thank you very much for yielding. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 1483 and urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this bill. 
   The Journey Through Hallowed Ground is not Mr. Wolf's bill. It is a  Democrat substitute bill that has been added to a larger bill, H.R. 1483, that is also a Democrat substitute bill. H.R. 1483 reflects a big government, big spending philosophy that tramples over taxpayers' interests and private property rights established and considered fundamental by revered American leaders such as Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln. What's more, it is being brought up under a closed rule. An amendment I offered to ensure majority voting control by congressional district residents over decisions by management entities affecting sites in their district located within heritage areas was rejected. 
   I was an enthusiastic supporter of the establishment of the Journey Through Hallowed Ground when it was perceived as a collective marketing effort. I thought, gee, what a great idea to include in one marketing effort all these grand historic sites in these four States, many of which are in the district I have the honor of representing. The Battle of Monocacy, the Battle of South Mountain, the Battle of Antietam, the C&O Canal that was mentioned by my friend, Mr. Regula, are all in my district. What a grand name for it, the Journey Through Hallowed Ground. In fact, this was such a great idea, it was such a fantastic name, that I was a little embarrassed when I thought to myself, gee, Roscoe, why didn't you think of that, such a great idea. Then, regrettably, it has metamorphosed into this big government, big spending bill. If you read the fine print in this bill, you will see that there is a Virginia-based, Virginia-controlled designated management entity that has an exclusive vision that I don't think is consistent with most of the voters in my district. 
   I have consistently stated and testified on both September 28, 2006, and March 8, 2007, that any Federal legislation to create the Journey Through Hallowed Ground Heritage Area should retain local control of its management by Marylanders concerning sites in Maryland. I also believe that if the value of land is reduced as a result of actions by the management entity, or local zoning ordinances, for instance, then affected property owners should be compensated at fair market value. I don't only think this, this is a requirement of the fifth amendment of the Constitution. We have taken value from their land, and we need to compensate them for that. We almost never, ever do that. If the fifth amendment of the Constitution were, in fact, honored, most of the governments would be bankrupt because they couldn't pay for the value they had taken from their taxpayers' lands. It is unwarranted to spend $15 million of taxpayers' money to protect and promote the Journey Through Hallowed Ground. This is such a great idea. There is plenty of money out there in the private sector. We don't need Federal money to do this. Supporters of H.R. 1483 have consistently refused to incorporate protections of taxpayers and private property owners. That is why I introduced an alternate bill, H.R. 1270, and approved an amendment to remove the Sixth District of Maryland if we couldn't have majority voting rights. That was defeated in committee on a party-line vote. Actions by management entities and the $135 million in taxpayers' money that will be matched and spent by management entities speak louder than the weak and toothless language in section 2009. 
   Let me just quote a couple of things from some outside groups that have looked at this. First from Americans for Tax Reform/Property Rights Alliance Vote Alert: ``We urge all Members to side with Americans and protect the right of land use by voting 'no' on H.R. 1483.'' 
   From the National Taxpayers Union: ``NTU urges all Members to vote `no' on H.R. 1483. NTU testified against H.R. 1483 in committee, and we're dismayed to see that the bill has grown in both cost and potential harm since introduction. Rollcall votes on H.R. 1483 will be significantly weighted in our annual Rating of Congress.'' 
   From the Heritage Foundation, in a report that they issued called ``National Heritage Areas: Costly Economic Development Schemes that Threaten Property Rights, Backgrounder 2080:'' 
   ``In fact, non-National Park Service funds amount to nearly 70 percent of the costs associated with the national heritage areas. If this pattern continues, H.R. 1483 would lead to an additional $270 million in NHA spending by Federal, State, local and not-for-profit entities.'' 
   ``One of the most controversial aspects of H.R. 1483 is the establishment of the Journey Through Hallowed Ground,'' which is in my district. ``The effort is sponsored and promoted by mainly two factions, Virginia-based environmental groups with a long history of opposition to most residential and commercial development in the region and wealthy estate owners who would benefit from the cachet and exclusivity that the designation might bring. The opposition includes local property owners and a large majority in Congress. 
   ``Other NHAs have used their federally acquired authority to impose restrictive zoning requirements on the region's property owners to limit development and/or to force it into directions agreeable to those who guide the management of the NHA.'' 
   Let me review. Members may be concerned that H.R. 1483 would, one, increase Federal funding by 50 percent from $10 million to $15 million per national heritage area, an amount neither requested nor reviewed in hearings, with total additional Federal spending of $135 million. 
   Two, it would expand the boundaries of three existing national heritage areas and, in addition, it would create six new national heritage areas, including the Journey Through Hallowed Ground, at a total initial authorization of $90 million. 
   It would reauthorize, increase and extend Federal funding for nine existing national heritage areas through 2012 at an additional cost of $45 million. 
   All of our Nation's founders knew of the intimate connection between personal liberty, taxpayers' interests and property rights. H.R. 1483 tramples over, rather than honors, these hallowed principles. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - February 28, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I believe that this is the 38th time that I've come to the floor to talk to my colleagues and, through the miracle of television, to the American people about a phenomenon that is becoming more and more apparent and more and more important to us. 
   This phenomenon is what we call peak oil. When I first started talking about this, I wasn't even sure what we were going to call it, the great rollover at that point in time when we've reached our maximum production to produce oil and we're rolling over to slip down the other side of that slope, or peak oil. We decided to call it peak oil, and now that is a pretty well-known terminology around the world.     
   When I first started talking about this, oil was $40 a barrel. Now oil is over $100 a barrel. In our Frederick News Post, a local paper, a headline today says: ``Oil Spikes Above $102 a Barrel for the First Time.'' As I left my office, oil was above $101 a barrel and going up. The euro was, I think, $1.51; gold was about $960. 
   And America doesn't seem to be responding. I asked one of my colleagues why, and he said, well, it's a problem of addiction. We're addicted to oil. The President appropriately said that in one of his State of the Union messages. He said, when you're addicted, what it costs really doesn't matter. If you're addicted to alcohol or cocaine, if it costs you your marriage, your job, your house, meeting the demands of the addiction is the important thing. 
   The chart that I have here I think shows the problem. The disgruntled citizen is down here saying, ``Gee, just why is gas so expensive?'' More than $3 a gallon. And there it is, a tiny little supply and a huge demand. It's a matter of supply and demand. In the time that I have been talking about peak oil, when it has risen from $40 a barrel to over $100 a barrel, the production of oil worldwide has remained essentially constant while the demand has been increasing. And when that happens, of course, there will be an increase in price; and we have seen that increase in price. 
   The next chart kind of places this in a perspective, and what it shows is the enormous importance of energy from fossil fuels, particularly the energy from gas and oil, enormous importance to the economies of the world. In 8,000 years of recorded history, I show here about the last 400 years. If I went back the rest of the 8,000, it would be the same. So near zero you couldn't see the difference. And here we show the beginning of the Industrial Revolution. It began with wood and then coal, and it was stuttering a little with coal, and then we discovered gas and oil, and, wow, it took off. Look at that slope. Incredibly, during the Carter years and up to that time, every decade we used as much oil as we had used in all of previous history. 
   Mr. Speaker, if you reflect for a moment on what that means, what that means is that when we had pumped half of all the oil that would be pumped in the world, we then would have 10 years left. Now, we have become much more efficient since then, and that was induced by the oil price spike hikes of the 1970s and the world-wide recession that followed that and an attention to efficiency, and your air conditioner and refrigerator are probably three times as efficient as they were back then. 
   If we had a population graph, you would see the population following this, now nearly 7 billion people in the world, most of us living incredibly well. Each person in our country has a life-style that if it were not for fossil fuels would require the work of 300 faithful people powering the industry and manning your household to permit you to live the quality of life that you're living. 
   That's the amount of energy that we get from these fossil fuels. One barrel of oil has the energy equivalent of 12 people working all year, 25,000 man hours of effort. When I first saw that, I thought that can't be true. Just 42 gallons of oil and has the energy equivalent of 12 people working all year? And then I thought about my Prius car and how far that gallon of gasoline, still cheaper than water in the grocery store if you buy it in the little bottles, how far that takes my Prius, 47 miles averaging now over the last 15,000, 20,000 miles. 
   Now, I could pull my Prius 47 miles, but it would take me quite a while with come-a-longs and using the guard rail and trees and so forth to pull my Prius 70 miles. So I thought maybe that is true. And that is true, that each barrel of oil contains the energy equivalent of 12 people working all year. So our use of this fossil fuel energy has produced for us an incredible quality of life. 
   The next chart is a history of how we got here, and this begins about 51 years ago, a speech given by M. King Hubbert to a group of oil people in San Antonio, Texas, on the 8th day of March, when he predicted in 1956 that we would be peaking in our country in oil production by 1970. Nobody believed that. We were then king of oil, producing more oil than any other country in the world, consuming more, exporting more. But right on schedule, in 1970, we peaked in oil production. 
   In spite of two things, in spite of finding a good deal more oil in Alaska and a good deal more oil in the Gulf of Mexico, this is the Alaska oil and this yellow is the Gulf of Mexico oil, and in spite of finding considerable oil in those two places, we now are producing about half the oil that we produced in 1970. And that's also in spite of drilling more oil wells than all the rest of the world put together. We have about 530,000 producing oil wells in our country, and that's more than all the rest of the world put together. 
   The next chart is an interesting one because it again shows what is referred to as Hubbert's Peak; and if you want to know a lot about this, you can do a Google search for Hubbert or Hubbert's Peak and a lot of this information will pop up for you. 
   The yellow triangles here represent M. King Hubbert's prediction of what oil production would be. The green is the actual production, and the red shows the total production from the United States including Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico, because M. King Hubbert had not included Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico in his analysis. This chart is presented by CERA to convince you that you shouldn't be too concerned about M. King Hubbert's prediction that the world would be peaking about now because he was wrong about the United States, and I think this is a statistician's debate because they're making the point that those green squares are materially different than the yellow triangles. 
   Now, I've had a course, an advanced course, in statistics; and I might, using the magic of statistical math, prove to myself that there is a meaningful difference there; but, boy, just looking at that, I think that the green curve looks pretty much like the yellow curve, doesn't it? We produced a bit more with Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico, but that was just a blip in sliding down the other side of Hubbert's Peak, and there we are today at about half of the production that we had in 1970. 
   The next graph shows us the reality of where we are. And if you had only one chart to look at, this would be that chart. It's said that a picture's worth a  thousand words, and this is worth more than a thousand words. The little bars here show when we found the oil. And you see we started to find a lot of it in the 1940s and the 1950s; and, boy, did we find it in the 1960s and another peak in the 1980s. And ever since the 1980s, in spite of ever better techniques for finding oil, it's been down, down, down. 
   The solid line here represents our consumption of oil. It's the same chart that you saw previously. And this shows what happened in the 1970s. And it shows here dramatically the difference in the slope. We were increasing our use of oil at this rate. And you see if we had continued that, by now it would be off the chart, wouldn't it? Just extrapolate from this curve and you're off the chart. But we really learned how to be more efficient in the 1970s; so now the growth rate is about 2 
   percent a year and much slower than that. 
   Now, what will the future look like? Ever since 1980 we have been using more oil than we found. And the difference between what we found and what we used is made up from reserves. We're now pumping some of these reserves from the past. 
   What will future discoveries be like? These forecasters have indicated slowly declining production. It won't be smooth like that, but will probably average about like that because most experts that I know believe that we have probably found about 95 percent of all of the really recoverable oil that we will find in the world unless the prices are very high and we have technologies that are now only conceptual. 
   So what the future will look like will depend upon how quickly you think we can and ought to use these reserves because the difference between what we use, and, of course, you can't use what's not pumped, but the difference between what we use and what is available to use is this space in here, and that's going to be filled up by the reserves back here. With enhanced recovery and aggressive techniques of pumping live steam down there and sequestering CO  
   2 down there and flooding it with seawater the way they're doing it in Saudi Arabia, we might get it more quickly and we might get a little more of it, but it won't dramatically change what the future looks like. 
   The next chart is a schematic, which I think shows where we are, and this is again what we've referred to as Hubbert's Peak. And it reflects a 2 percent growth and decline after that. Now, you can make this peak look sharp or flat. Here we have expanded the abscissa and compressed the ordinate so that it's kind of flat. You can make it a really sharp peak if you do the reverse, but that yellow area there represents 35 years because, you see, 2 percent growth, just 2 percent growth, which is so small that our market really doesn't like that, if it's only 2 percent growth, Wall Street doesn't do very well. But 2 percent growth doubles in 35 years. It's four times bigger in 70 years. It's eight times bigger in 105 years. It is 16 times bigger in 140 years. 
   Now, we've been here a long time, and I hope we're here another 140 years; and if we have only 2 percent growth, we would be using 16 times as much energy in 140 years from now. I will tell you categorically there will not be 16 times as much energy to use so things in the interim will need to change. I think we're about here, and I will present evidence from a number of sources that corroborate that. 
   And most people are now concentrating on how do we fill the peak. Because with our addiction to these fossil fuels, this is what we would like to use, but we're only going to have this much available; so we have got to somehow fill in that peak. I will tell you that as far as liquid fuels are concerned, I don't think there's a prayer that we can fill in that gap. I think that we will be more than lucky if we can continue with a plateau, that what we can get from oil will be this curve and we can now have some renewables which will fill in to give us a plateau. We can live very comfortably with that. A chart a little later will show that. 
   The next chart is an interesting one. It's by a major organization, CERA, and they're one of the few entities in the world now that still is kind of in denial on peak oil. Although they say that, undulating plateau versus peak oil, but what they're showing there is a peak. And what they're showing here is that if we don't find much more oil, because we've found roughly 2 trillion barrels of recoverable oil and we've used a trillion barrels of those and that's just 1.92 trillion, and so if we find oil as depicted in that earlier chart we showed, then peaking would occur about here, which is imminent, is it not? 
   Now, if we find as much more oil as all the recoverable oil that still remains to be pumped, then that moves the peak out to this point. That's my kids. That's not even my grandkids. That's my kids that will have to deal with that. Even if that is true, then there's some unconventional oil, and I have no idea how much of that we can exploit. There are huge reserves in the Canadian tar sands and our oil shales of the West, Utah and Colorado. Heroic attempts are being made to exploit those. We're getting about a million barrels a day. That seems big, but the world is using more than 84 million barrels a day, and I just don't know what the potential will be. It is very uncertain what that potential will be. They are huge potential amounts of energy, but so are there huge potential amounts of energy in the tides. Because it's in the tides doesn't mean it's in the gas tank of your car, and the same thing is relatively true of these alternative sources of unconventional oil. Now, that also includes the heavy sours, and those we are converting and can convert; so there's some of that there too. 
   The next chart is a very recent one and very informative.     
   There are two major entities in the world that track production and use. And, of course, the use and production are essentially the same thing because we have no big reserves of oil in the world. We are kind of using it as we produce it because we are hungry for oil in our economy. One of those is the IEA, the International Energy Agency, and El Baradei, and that is the one that is keeping track of what is going on with the nuclear thing in Iran, and you see them frequently in the news. And the other is our own Energy Information Administration, a part of our Department of Energy. And I would caution you to be kind of suspect on their predictions for the future because they are using what I think, and what a good many think, are highly speculative prognostications by USGS as to how much more oil we are going to find. But they do a very good job of tracking. 
   And look what they have found. Look what they have found. If you smooth out the ups and downs of the red and the green, the red for IEA and the green for the EIA, we have been essentially plateaued in oil production for the last 30 months. Now, in the same 30 months, that is about the time it took oil to go from $40 a barrel to $102 a barrel. And isn't that what happens when you have a static supply and an increasing demand? If there is inadequate supply for the demand, the price goes up. The little blue line here shows the cost of oil. And it is now above $100 a barrel there, and it shows how dramatically the cost of oil responds to the availability of oil. There are a number of experts. 
   The next chart shows a quote, a very recent quote from Shell Oil Company, ``By the year 2100, the world's energy system will be radically different from today.'' It will indeed be radically different from today's. The world's current predicament limits our maneuvering room. We are experiencing a step change in the growth rate of our energy demands. And Shell estimates that after 2015, that is just around the corner, supplies of easy-to-access oil and gas will no longer keep up with demand. That is Shell Oil Company saying that we are going to peak out in the very near future in the production of gas and oil. We will not be able to meet the world's demands. 
   The next chart is a quote from our Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice, noting the incredible geopolitical consequences. ``Yes, we do have to do something about the energy problem. I can tell you that nothing has really taken me aback more as Secretary of the State than the way the politics of energy is. I will use the word warping diplomacy around the world. We have simply got to do something now about the warping now of diplomatic effort by the all-out rush for energy supply.'' In 2006. We are now nearly 2 years later, and I will submit this was a very appropriate warning. We have done little.  
   The next chart is a really illustrative one, and this chart shows what our world would look like if the size of the country was relative to the amount of oil reserves that it contained. And you see in this chart that Saudi Arabia dominates the landmass of the world. Indeed, 22 percent of all the oil reserves in the world we believe are in Saudi Arabia. And notice how large Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, and the United Arab Emirates, just little dots on the map in the Middle East, and look how large they are in terms of how much oil they have. Venezuela, in our hemisphere, dwarfs the United States. 
   Here we are with 2 percent of the oil in the world, and the yellow indicates that we use a whole lot. Why, we are the only yellow one in the world, aren't we? We have 2 percent of the oil. We use 25 percent of the world's oil. This is a shocking picture. 
   The next chart shows the concerns of some of our leading thought people in our country on the implications of this for national security. Jim Woolsey, McFarland, and Boyden Gray and 27 other prominent Americans, several Four Star retired admirals and generals among them, about 3 years ago wrote a letter to the President saying, ``Mr. President, the fact that we have only 2 percent of the world's reserves of oil and we consume 25 percent of the world's oil and import almost two-thirds of what we use is a totally unacceptable national security exposure. We really have to do something about that.'' The President mentioned that in his State of the Union that we were addicted to oil, much of it coming from people, as he said, that don't even like us very much. And we really need to do something about that. Tragically, we have not done much about that. 
   We represent less than 5 percent of the world's population, one person out of 22 in the world. We use a fourth of the world's oil. That statistic is not lost on the rest of the world, by the way. They note that, that they're paying $8 a gallon for gasoline in France. We are still paying $3 in our country. Note that although we have only 2 percent of the world's oil reserves, we are using 8 percent of the world's oil. What that means, of course, is that we are pumping our oil four times faster than the average in the world. That is understandable since we have more oil wells in our country than all the rest of the world put together. 
   The next chart really is an illustrative one. It has two bars. And the bar on the right, the top ten oil and gas companies on the basis of oil reserves, and notice that 98 percent of all of the oil reserves, this is among the top ten, 98 percent of all the oil reserves are Middle East. Lukoil, Russia, has only 2 percent. So that is who has the oil. 
   Now, who pumps the oil? Gee, we think that ExxonMobil, Royal Dutch Shell, and BP and so forth are huge companies. They are huge companies. But look, 78 percent of the top ten producers of oil, again, are these countries in the Middle East that are big giants, produce only 22 percent of the oil. 
   The next chart is a quote from a speech given 51 years ago the 14th day of this May by Hyman Rickover to a group of physicians in St. Paul, Minnesota. And if you do a Google search for ``Rickover energy speech,'' it will pop up, an enormously prophetic speech. He noted that at that time we were about 100 years into the age of oil, and he had no idea how long the age of oil would last, but this is a quote. ``There is nothing man can do to rebuild exhausted fossil fuel reserves. They were created by solar energy a very long time ago and took eons to grow to their present volume.'' 
   In the face of the basic fact that fossil fuel reserves are finite, they are indeed finite. They are not inexhaustible. The exact length of time these reserves will last is important in only one respect: The longer they last, the more time that we have to invent ways of living off renewable or substitute energy sources and to adjust our economy to the vast changes which we can expect from such a shift. 
   He had no idea how long the age of oil would last. We were then 100 years into it. Now we pretty much know. With some confidence, I can tell you that the age of oil out of 8,000 years of recorded history will occupy about 300 years. As Hyman Rickover noted, this is but a blip in the long history of man. He said, ``Fossil fuels resemble capital in the bank. A prudent and responsible parent will use this capital sparingly in order to pass on to his children as much as possible of his inheritance. A selfish and irresponsible parent will squander it in riotous living and care not one whit how his offspring will fare.'' I have 10 kids, 16 grandkids, and two great grandkids. I am really concerned about 
   their future relative to energy. 
   Do you know what we should have done when we found this incredible wealth under the ground, a barrel of which equaled the work output of 12 people working all year? We should have stopped to ask ourselves, what can we do with this to provide the most good for the most people for the longest time? That clearly is not what we did. With no more responsibility than the kids who found the cookie jar or the hog who found the feed room door open, we have just been pigging out. 
   And incredibly, with all the evidences that we have been going through here and more, that we are either at or very near peak oil, we still want to rush to drill and pump the last little reserves that we know might be out there. If we could pump ANWR and the offshore oil tomorrow, what we would do the day after tomorrow? And that is the plea that Hyman Rickover makes in his speech. There will be a day after tomorrow. 
   The next chart is an interesting one, and it shows some of the misconceptions that are out there. These are projections by our Energy Information Administration as to what production will be in the future. And we don't have time to go through the interesting transformation from frequency to probability, but somehow from USGS data to EIA charts, we went from a frequency to a P, which is a probability, and there they are making the bizarre statement that a 50 percent probability is greater than a 95 percent probability. And of course that can't be true. And this is the 95 percent probability. This is the 50 percent probability. 
   And their projection is that world oil production, this is, by the way, a smoothing out that chart we saw before with a lot of discoveries around the 1970s and 1980s and they have just drawn a relatively smooth curve over that. They were projecting that we were going to find more and more, and we were going to follow the green line. But look what has been happening since they made this projection, what you would expect might be happening: 95 percent probable is more than 50 percent, and it has been following the 95 percent probability. 
   The next chart is an interesting observation from Jean Laherrere, who is an expert in this area. And he is looking at the prognostications that are used to project that green curve that we are going to find more and more, so don't worry about the future. He says that the USGS estimate implies a five-fold increase in discovery rate and reserve addition for which no evidence is presented. Such an improvement in performance is, in fact, utterly implausible, given the great technological achievements of the industry over the past 20 years, computer modeling and 3-D seismic, the worldwide search and the deliberative effort to find the largest remaining prospects. Indeed, it really is quite implausible. 
   The next chart shows that even if that happened, even if that happened, even if we found as much more oil as all the known recoverable reserves today, it still wouldn't make that much difference. Because here we are, and here is that recession in the 1970s and our slower rate of increase because we are now more efficient. And the red curve indicates that we will find another roughly trillion barrels of oil, as much more oil as all the oil that we now know can be reasonably recovered. And if that happens, it pushes the peak out to 2016. Big deal, 9 years from now. That is the power of compound growth. 
   When Albert Einstein was asked, after the discovery of nuclear energy, Dr. Einstein, what will be the next big force in the universe? He said that the most powerful force in the universe is the power of compound interest. And you see that here. 
   And by the way, if we now use heroic efforts with enhanced recovery and we get it out quicker and maybe a little more, then it follows this curve, but then you pretty much fall off a cliff. You can't pump what is not there. 
   There have been four studies. The next chart is a quote from one of those  studies. There have been four studies. The chart just up was a chart from that same study. There have been four studies paid for by your government, and pretty much ignored by your government. The first of these studies was the big study done by SAIC, known as the Hirsch report, published in 2005. And this is SAIC, a big prestigious organization of worldwide respect. He said that the world has never faced a problem like this. World oil peaking is going to happen. World production of conventional oil will reach a maximum and decline thereafter. That happened in our country in 1970.     
   The same man who predicted it would happen in our country in 1970 predicted it would be happening in the world about now. If he was right about our country, why shouldn't we have been concerned about the probability he might have been right about the world? The world has never faced a problem like this. 
   The next chart shows a couple of more quotes from the Hirsch Report. ``..... will present the United States and world with unprecedented risk management problems, but the economic, social and political costs will be unprecedented.'' There is nothing in history to prepare us for this. 
   The three other reports, I mentioned that there were four, three other studies, actually, two reports from the Hirsch study, the second one was done by the Corps of Engineers, also in 2005. They said essentially the same thing in different words, that the peaking of oil is either present or imminent, with potentially devastating consequences. 
   The third one was by the Government Accountability Office in 2007, just last year, and they said essentially the same thing, in different words. 
   The last one was by the National Petroleum Council, again last year, saying essentially the same thing. ``The peaking of oil is either present or imminent with potentially devastating consequences.'' 
   I have here I think a couple of more references to this very recent reference. Here is one. This is just out from the Deutsche Bank. There are several quotes in that, and you can pull this up and look at it. The 100 million barrels per day peak oil market, we are now somewhere 84 and 88 million barrels a day. We use about a fourth of that, 21-22 million barrels a day. I am not sure we will ever get to 100. But many people are prognosticating 120-150 million barrels a day. There is little probability that will happen. 
   Several CEOs are quoted in this of the large oil producing companies, and they are all saying essentially the same thing, that we are probably at peak oil. 
   Now, what do we do about that? I want to use the remaining time to talk about that. 
   The next chart is a chart of where we get our energy from today. Well, this was in 2000. That isn't quite today, and there have been some changes since then. But you can see we were getting, according to this chart, 24 percent of our energy from natural gas, 30 percent from petroleum, and from coal we got 23 percent. That adds up to 85 percent of all the energy that we are consuming comes from fossil fuels, and they are finite. They will not last forever. 
   Only 7 percent of that energy comes from true renewables, of the additional energy, to make up to 100, and 8 percent comes from nuclear electrical power. Now, that is 8 percent of the total energy in our country. That is almost 20 percent of our electricity is produced from nuclear power. 
   We are very much like the young couple whose grandparents have died and left them a big inheritance, and they now have established a really lavish lifestyle, where 85 percent of the money they are spending comes from their grandparents' inheritance and only 15 percent of it from their income. They look at what they are spending and how old they are and when they will retire, and, ``gee, the inheritance is going to run out before we retire, so we really got to do something. Either we got to spend less or make more.'' And that is precisely where we are. 
   This 85 percent, because we are reaching the maximum production of oil and gas, we will be tailing off, so there will be the necessity of replacing that. Just as this young couple would have to replace the limited resources in their grandparents' inheritance with more money or spend less money, that is where we are. 
   Now, these roughly represent the renewables. This was the picture in 2000. It has changed a little. But in terms of the big picture, the dramatic changes since 2000 are really pretty trifling. 
   At that time, solar represented 1 percent. Solar has been growing 20-25 percent a year. That is really big growth. But 1 percent of 7 percent is .07 percent. So it is five times bigger, 0.35 percent. Still trifling, isn't it? Still way down, kind of in the noise level. 
   Wood. This is the paper industry and timber industry wisely using what would otherwise be a waste product, waste to energy. You can do several things with your public waste, and burying it is probably the least productive thing you ought to do with it. You can recycle it, and that ought to be done, to the extent that it is rational. Or you can burn it to produce energy. 
   But be cautious. This is not a solution to our fossil fuel problem, because most of that waste stream represents the profligate use of fossil fuel energy, and in a fossil fuel deficient world, it just won't be there. So for the moment it makes imminently good sense to do that, but recognize that will be a diminishing resource. As the world has less and less fossil fuels, we are learn to live with less and less waste. 
   Wind. Boy, that one is growing, maybe 40 percent a year. Denmark is the world leader in that. They have now freed themselves from the need of imported oil. Their huge wind machines produce electricity at about 1.5 cents a kilowatt hour. We are doing it for about 2.5 cents a kilowatt hour. That is very competitive. And there is the potential for a lot of growth. Again, in 2000, that was only 1 percent of the 7 percent renewables, which is 0.07 percent. So to get to be a really meaningful percent of our total energy production, we have to have a long time and huge growth there, don't we. 
   Conventional hydro, you see that is a big part of the renewables. That is truly renewable. As long as the sun shines and the water evaporates and it is carried up to the clouds and it drops on the mountains and flows down to the rivers, we have conventional hydro. That probably can't grow much in our country. But we could grow micro hydro. The big macro hydro, we probably tapped out on it. But the rest of the world has some potential for growth in hydro. 
   Alcohol fuel, just spend a moment talking about that. This seems like such a great idea. Our farmers are so good at growing these grains, and you can ferment the sugar and corn to make alcohol. The first cars that Henry Ford built ran on alcohol, so we are kind of just going full cycle if we turn back to alcohol. 
   We produced a fair amount of alcohol, and it doubled the price of corn. So our farmers, recognizing they could make more money growing corn than they could soybeans and wheat, they diverted land from soybeans and wheat at the same time that the world population is growing and the demands for these things are increasing. 
   So now we have an increase, double the price of corn, and a huge increase in the price of wheat and soybeans. And what that means is that three of the world's staple foods for people, corn, wheat, soybeans and rice, three of those have gone up because of our corn ethanol program. A UN official, noting what we had done and the consequences of this and the world increase in corn, wheat and soybean prices, said what we have done is a crime against humanity. 
   The National Academy of Sciences, now, this isn't Roscoe Bartlett saying this, I am just repeating the National Academy of Sciences, although we did some back-of-the-envelope computations and came to essentially the same conclusion, the National Academy of Sciences says if we took all of our corn and converted it to ethanol, and discounted it for fossil fuel input, which you really have to do to be fair, you can't be using fossil fuel energy to produce ethanol and pretend you are displacing fossil fuels, that we would in that case displace 2.4 percent of our gasoline. 
   That is trifling. In fact, it is so trifling that they noted that if you tuned up your car and put air in the tires, you would save as much gas as converting all of our corn to ethanol.  
   They further said that if we converted all of our soybeans, no soybean oil for your salads, no soybean oil meal for your pigs and chickens and cows, converted all, but you still have the soybean meal left that you could use, but all the oil, convert all the oil to soy diesel, it would displace 2.9 percent of our diesel. 
   The reality is that these fossil fuels are incredibly rich in quality and quantity of energy. They have been easily exploitable. You put in our big oil fields one unit of energy and you get out 100 units of energy. It is the energy-profit ratio. In many of our wells today, we put in 1 and get out 1.5 or 1.2, but it is still profitable, so we still do it. 
   Geothermal. Now, that is true geothermal. That is not tying your heat pump to the ground temperature, which we really ought to do. When I got up this morning it was 18 degrees. If you had a heat pump, what you were trying to do to heat your house was to cool that 18 degrees outside. You had to take heat from out there and put it in your house. 
   Now, if you were tied to the ground, here it is 56 degrees. That looks really warm compared to 18, doesn't it? And the reverse in summer, of course. Your air conditioner in summer is trying to heat up that 102 air outside to cool your house. It would be a whole lot easier to work against a 56 degree ground temperature, wouldn't it? But this is talking about the true geothermal. That is where you are tapping into the heat produced in the molten core of the Earth. 
   Now, for all practical purposes, that is inexhaustible. It is not, of course, but you are talking in terms of millions and millions of years, so as far as we are concerned, it is inexhaustible. We have some real potential for that. There is not a chimney in Iceland that I saw, because they run everything there on geothermal. We have some places in our country where we can do that, and we can and should. 
   The next chart is a look at all of the potential substitutes, supplements, for fossil fuels. The first of these are some finite solutions, and that is the tar sands and the oil shales and coal. It is worth just spending a couple of minutes talking about those, because there are potentially huge, huge reserves there. 
   Conservatively, there are probably 1.5 trillion barrels of oil at both the tar sands and the oil shales, in each of those. There are potentially about 1.5 trillion barrels of oil in both the oil shales and tar sands. That is 3 trillion barrels between the two. And we have about 1 trillion barrels of recoverable oil in the known oil fields in the world. That is a huge amount, and some people will tell you, don't worry about the future, because we have all that oil there and we will get it out. 
   Well, they are working very heroically in Canada to exploit the tar sands. They have a shovel up there which lifts 100 tons at a time, they dump it into a truck which hauls 400 tons, and they haul it to a cooker that uses natural gas and cooks this really stiff oil so it will flow, and then they add some chemicals to it to keep it flowing when it cools. 
   They are producing about 1 million barrels a day. But they know what they are doing is not sustainable, because they are going to run out of the water it takes to do it, they are going to run out of the natural gas that they are using, and they are talking about building a nuclear power plant. And this seam, if you think of it as a seam, it is pretty much on top of the ground, but soon it ducks under an overlay and it would be prohibitively expensive to remove the overlay, so they will have to determine how to do it in situ, and they don't know how they can do that in situ. So because it is there doesn't mean it will be in your gas tank. But we really need to work at that. 
   But with these heroic methods, it is 1 million barrels a day. That is just a little over 1 percent of all the oil we use. So don't become too sanguine about the future because it is there, because there are huge engineering challenges in exploiting it. 
   The oil shales of our West, and conservatively there is 1.5 trillion barrels there, but to date nobody has found a way to competitively get that out, even with oil near $100 a barrel. There are several companies and consortiums working on some breakthrough technologies that may make exploitation of that possible. But there is still an enormous amount of uncertainty in that, and to bank on that solving your energy problems would be sort of the equivalent of banking on winning the lottery to solve your personal economic problems. It would be real nice if that happened.     
   But I wouldn't bet the ranch on it. You ought to have a plan B, so I think we ought to have a plan B here. 
   Whoa, some people will tell you, no problem about the future, because we have 500 years of coal. That isn't true. There is nobody I know who believes we have 500 years. 
   But for a long time the figure 250 years was tossed about. That's 250 years at present use rate. There may be a chart later that shows this, but I will just go through the numbers now because they are really simple to understand. That 250 years shrinks to 85 years if there is only 2 percent growth. 
   Again, that's the power of compound growth. Then if you convert that coal to a gas or liquid and use the energy from coal to do it, which is the only fair thing to do, you have now shrunk to 50 years. If you share it with the world, and if you think about it, you think about it, there is no way you can avoid sharing it with the world. Because if we use oil produced from coal, then the oil we might have bought from the Middle East is available to somebody else. 
   So the end result is just as if you had sold three-fourths of that oil to the rest of the world, the oil they would get from coal, because they will be buying that three-fourths you didn't use from the countries from which you would have bought it. In that case it lasts 12 1/2 years. 
   But just recently, the National Academy of Sciences has said that we haven't really looked at coal reserves since the 1970s. And they have looked at coal reserves, and they say it's not 250 years of reserves, it's 100 years of reserves. 
   So if we use that same dynamic of compound growth, that 100 years shrinks to something probably less than 5 years if you convert it to a gas or liquid, use energy from coal to do that, and share it with the world. 
   Now, there is a lot of coal out there, and we are fortunate in being one of the major repositories of coal in the world, and you can convert it to a gas or a liquid. Germany did that during World War II. South Africa learned to do it when their trade was restricted with the rest the world. But this is not a panacea. It's there, and we will use it. But we need to use that as a bridge to get the true renewable, nuclear. 
   Now, nuclear is kind of in a class by itself. There are three basic types of nuclear power plants; two of them we have, one of them is a dream. The two that we have is the light water reactor using fissionable uranium. That's the only one used worldwide to produce electricity. France produces about 75 or 80 percent of their electricity from nuclear. We still produce more electricity with our 20 percent than the total amount they produce because we are so much bigger than them. 
   By the way, and that uses fissionable uranium, and there is a finite amount of that in the world. It is not infinite. I get wildly divergent estimates of how much remain, but it's not in hundreds of years. It's in decades, not in hundreds of years. 
   A second type of nuclear energy is the breeder reactor, which, as the name implies, produces more fuel than it uses. That has been used in producing nuclear weapons in our country and other places in the world. It has big problems in transporting weapons, potentially weapons-grade materiel to enrichment and so forth, and of storing away some products that will be hot for a quarter of a million years. 
   Now, just intuitively, something so energetic that I can't get near it for a quarter of a million years just ought to have enough energy in there to do something useful with it, and they now are working at that, and there are now some exciting new technologies that may permit us to get a whole lot more energy out of these fuels than we were getting in the past. So there is a real opportunity for nuclear to kind of take up the slack, but note that that produces electricity. 
   Unless you are going to go to electric cars, that doesn't help much in liquid  fuels, and the real crisis in the future, the real challenge for the future, is going to be liquid fuels. Now, the only silver bullet that I know of, and, again, this is not liquid fuels, but you can have electric cars, was some challenges in producing batteries and with the raw materials necessary for those and disposing of the batteries and so forth. 
   Fusion is inexhaustible, if we get to it. That's what the sun is doing. It's a huge nuclear fusion plant. We may get there. We spend about $250 million a year doing that, and we are always about 30 years away from a functioning fusion power plant. 
   I gladly support the $250 million, but I will tell you that I think the odds of getting there are relatively small. The rewards are so huge that it's worth the investment even if the chance of success is small, so I happily vote for this. 
   But please have a plan B. If we get there, wonderful. But the probability that we will get there is, I think, quite small, so we really need a plan B. You can't count on that as the future energy source for your kids and your grandkids. 
   Now, here are the renewables that we have been talking about. Let's see if there are some here. Ocean energy. Lots of potential from energy from the oceans, the ocean waves, the ocean tides. The Moon lifts the whole ocean, three-fourths of the Earth's surface, several feet a day. 
   I carry two 5-gallon buckets of water, that's heavy. When I think about the huge amount of potential energy in just those tides, it's more than we are using, but it's disbursed, very difficult to capture. There is an old axiom that says, energy, to be effective, must be concentrated when the tides are just so disbursed. Very difficult. 
   There is ocean thermal gradients. Some places the surface of the ocean is very warm, the deep waters are very cold, and you can, with the principle of the thermocouple, get energy from that divergent temperature difference. So there are a lot of opportunities, potential opportunities from energy from the ocean, and we ought to be exploiting all of those. 
   Methanol. Methanol is simply an alcohol made from wood rather than grain. Grain alcohol has two carbons, wood alcohol has one carbon, but it burns with roughly the same amount of energy. 
   A biomass, and a lot of talk about biomass today, and you look out there at all of that wasteland and those trees and that grass, and, gee, if we could just take that and convert it into alcohol. You can do that with some little organisms that we have bioengineered that mimic what the organisms do in the gut of the sheep or the goat or the cow or the cecum of the horse and the guinea pig. They can break down the cellulose molecule into the constituent glucose molecules. Then, of course, you can ferment those glucose molecules. But we have not yet perfected that technology so that it is amenable to huge, large-scale production, but maybe we can get there. 
   I have a major concern that Hyman Rickover talked about in his great speech, and again, I would urge that that's a very instructive speech. Hyman Rickover, energy speech, Google, search it. It will pop up for you. 
   He noted in that speech that we shouldn't be competing with food for energy. That's corn ethanol, biodiesel. We should be careful in competing with a humus for fuel, because, you see, the weeds that grow today in that vacant lot, that will grow this summer, are 
   in at least some measure growing because last year's weeds died and are fertilizing them. 
   I remember back, I was born in 1926, so I lived during the Depression, and I remember farmers in the Depression which said, gee, I have now worn out my third farm. What they did was to go in and mine the farm simply by planting crops that drew from the soil far more energy than he or the plants put into the soil. So soon, the soils were nonproductive and there were few of us in a big country, and he just moved on. 
   You can't move on today, and so we have to have sustainable agriculture. I don't know the extent to which we can exploit what might be a huge potential from energy from biomass, but I would caution that we really need to look at sustainability. 
   If you have ever gone to the tropical rain forest that looks to be a hugely rich dynamic, and, gee, if I only could get all of that stuff off of there, I could grow tremendous crops on that soil. 
   But when they did that, there was bitter disappointment, because what they found was that essentially all of the nutrients in that ecosystem were involved in the growth, death, decay, regrowth. When they took that material off the soils, for what they called laterite soils, they baked like a brick. It would take a very long time by secondary succession to come back to a rain forest. We need to be very careful about sustainability. 
   I have been a big proponent of what we call ARPA-E, and we voted that. It's not been funded, and the administration is not recommending funding it, and I hope they reconsider. 
   ARPA-E kind of mimics our DARPA, which has been an enormously successful organization in exploiting leading-edge technologies, and the net out there is their creation. They have been the creator of a lot of really exciting technology, because what they do is to fund leading-edge things that are so far out there and so risky that business rationally can't do it, and probably in terms of fidelity to their stockholders should not be doing it. 
   We think the future demands very creative approaches to selecting which of these alternatives we invest our limited amount of time and money and energy in. 
   My wife tells me that I shouldn't be talking about this. She said that don't you remember that in ancient Greece they killed the messenger that brought bad news. I tell her this is really a good news story. It's a good news story in two respects. One is that the sooner we start, the less bumpy the ride will be. 
   Now, we should have started at least 28 years ago. I say that because by 1980 we knew absolutely that M. King Hubbert was right about the United States. We were already 10 years down the other side of Hubbert's peak. We have now blown 28 years when he should have been doing something, but if we start today, the ride will be smoother than if we start tomorrow. 
   But even more importantly, I think this challenge is just exhilarating. There is no exhilaration like the exhilaration of meeting and overcoming a huge challenge, and, boy, this is a big one. 
   A year ago, the holiday season, I was privileged to lead a codel of nine Members to China, and we went there to talk about energy. Incredibly, they began their discussion of energy by talking about post oil. Gee, you know, in our country, we tend to think in terms of the next quarterly report, and the next election. We are kind of dominated by what's called the tyranny of the urgent, which frequently sweeps the important off the table. But in that part of the world they seem to think in terms of generations and centuries. And so with that perspective, they were talking about a post-oil world, and they talked about post oil, and they had a five-point plan. 
   Number one, conservation. That's where it has got to begin is conservation. That will buy some time and free up some energy because we have run out of time. There is no surplus energy to invest in alternatives. Their oil wouldn't be $100 a barrel. 
   The second and third points of their five-point program was find alternatives, and as many of those as you can from their own country. 
   The fourth one will interest you, it's be kind to the environment, and they know that they are big polluters. 
   The fifth one is international cooperation. They are pleading for international cooperation. 
   What we need, and I will close with this brief statement, what we need is a program that has a total commitment of World War II, the technology focus of putting a man on the Moon, and the urgency of the Manhattan Project. We are the most creative, innovative society in the world. We are up to the challenge. We need leadership. We can do it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL PRODUCTION -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, tomorrow we vote here in the House on an energy bill. And I thought it might be appropriate to spend a bit of time this evening looking at where we and the world are relative to energy. I have here a chart with some numbers on it that inspired 30 of our prominent Americans, Jim Woolsey, Boyden Gray, McFarland and 27 others, among them retired four star admirals and generals, to write to the President a letter which said, ``Mr. President, we have only 2 percent of the world's oil reserves. We consume 25 percent of the world's oil, almost two-thirds of which we import. And that presents a totally unacceptable national security risk. We really have to do something about that to free ourselves from the necessity of buying foreign oil.'' 
   The President recognizes that this is a problem. In his recent State of the Union message he said that we are hooked on oil. 
   There are a couple of other interesting numbers here. We represent actually a bit less than 5 percent of the world's population. We represent about one person in 22 in the world. And with only 2 percent of the world's oil reserves, we are pumping 8 percent of the world's oil. What that means, of course, is that we are pumping our oil four times faster than the rest of the world. We have been pumping less oil each year now for several years, and with this high pumping rate that decline will accelerate. 
   How did we get here? To find how we got here, you have really got to go back about 6 decades. I didn't know last year on the 14th day of March, when I gave the first speech here on the floor about peak oil, that I was just 6 days beyond the 50th anniversary of what I think will come to be seen as the most important speech given in the last century. This was a speech given by M. King Hubbert, a Shell Oil company geologist, to a group of oil people in San Antonio, Texas. At that time, if you look back in your history books, you will see that we were the largest producer of oil in the world. We were the largest consumer of oil in the world, and we were the largest exporter of oil in the world. 
   And M. King Hubbert shocked his audience by telling them that in just about a decade and a half, roughly 1970, the United States would peak in oil production. And no matter what we did after that, our production of oil would decline. 
   I have here a curve which shows his prediction. His prediction is the small green symbols here, and the actual data points are the larger green symbols. And you see they reasonably followed his predicted curve. By 1980, when Ronald Reagan took office, we were already well down the other side of Hubbert's peak, and we knew very well that M. King Hubbert had been right about the United States. 
   Now, in 1969, M. King Hubbert predicted that the world would follow the United States in peaking in oil production about now. If he was right about the United States, why shouldn't he be right about the world? 
   It has now been 27 years since we knew, in 1980. We are already 10 years down the other side of what is called Hubbert's peak. And we knew that he  was right about the United States and he had predicted that the world would be peaking about now. 
   If he was right about the United States, why shouldn't he be right about the world? And shouldn't we have been doing something about anticipating this world peaking oil production? 
   The red symbols there, by the way, are a similar curve for the former Soviet Union, now today, Russia. And you see that when they fell apart they did not meet their expectation, so they are now having a second little peak, but they will follow the general downward trend. 
   How was M. King Hubbert able to predict this? We had already been producing oil for quite a while in 1956, and M. King Hubbert had watched the exploitation and exhaustion of some individual oil fields, and he found that they always followed what we call a bell curve. Small production at first, and then increasing and finally reaching a maximum, and then falling off the other side. 
   This bell curve is very familiar. If you weigh people, some will be very light and some will be very heavy, but most of them are somewhere in the middle and they follow a bell curve. If you measure the heights of people, they will follow a similar curve, or the number of mice in a mouse's litter. There are just a great many things that follow this kind of a curve. 
   So he noted two things, one, that most of the fields tended to be exploited and exhausted in a bell curve, and when they had reached a maximum, for the average field, half of the oil had been pumped. And so he rationalized that if he knew how many fields the United States had, and how many more we would discover, if he added up all the little bell curves he would have one big bell curve which would indicate when the United States would peak in oil production. 
   He did that. His math may be difficult to follow, but his reasoning is pretty simple. He did that, and he predicted it would be 1970. And right on schedule, we peaked in 1970. 
   I have been joined on the floor by my good friend, also from Maryland, Wayne Gilchrest. And before I yield to him, I would just like to introduce what he is going to talk about by quoting here from the International Energy Agency. This is a recent press release. And what they say here, ``The energy future we are facing today, based on projections of current trends, is dirty, insecure and expensive. But it also shows how new government policies can create an alternative energy future which is clean, clever and competitive.'' 
   They go on to say that ``energy demand increases by 53 percent between now and 2030.'' Well, it may. The demand may increase by 53 percent, but the use will not increase by 53 percent because, as you will see when we develop the subject this evening, the oil almost certainly will not be there to meet this demand. 
   Over 70 percent of this increase comes from developing countries led by China and India. World oil demand reaches 116 million barrels per day in 2030, up from 84 million barrels today in 2005 and 2006 and 2007. That number really hasn't changed. We have been on a plateau for the last 3 years of about 84, 85 million barrels of oil per day. 
   By the way, we use about 21 million barrels a day, about exactly one-fourth of that. Most of the increase in oil supply is met by a small number of major OPEC producers. Non-OPEC conventional crude oil output peaks, they say, by the middle of the next decade. Most observers believe that that has now peaked and, as a matter of fact, the world is about to peak. These trends would accentuate consuming nations' vulnerabilities to a severe supply disruption and resulting price shocks. They would also amplify the magnitude of global climate change. 
   Mr. Gilchrest, I am pleased to yield to you. They introduce the subject that I know you are very much concerned about, and that is what our increased use of fossil fuels is doing to our climate and how it is affecting global climate change and global warming. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL PRODUCTION -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. What the gentleman has been talking about is more than valid reason for pursuing the development of alternatives, if no other. Why would we want to increase CO  
   2 more? Why would we want to threaten more the quality of life in this world? 
   The Congressman and I have been to Antarctica twice; one of those trips we went together. Down in Antarctica, 90 percent of all the fresh water in the world is locked up in the ice there. It is nearly 2 miles high, and 70 percent of all the world's ice is locked up in Antarctica. Now that hasn't really started to melt yet, although it has threatened. I am told that calculations indicate that if the polarized caps in the Greenland ice shelf, if they were all to melt, the ocean levels would rise 200 feet. 
   Now, if you look around the world you will note that a big percent of the world's population lives within 200 feet of sea level. This would be a monstrous, monstrous change. 
   There are three very good reasons for pursuing alternatives, which is what the bill tomorrow is going to be talking about. One of those is certainly a climate change, because what we are doing now is releasing CO  
   2 that was bound up in these plants and organisms that grew aeons ago, and it took many, many years to tie up the CO 
   2. Now we are releasing it very quickly as we burn these fossil fuels. 
   A second reason, of course, is I just don't think that the oil is going to be there, which is what we are talking about tonight as ``peak oil.'' 
   The third really good reason for doing it is the reason the President advanced, and that is, it really is a big national security risk to be so dependent on foreign oil. 
   What I have here on this chart is another depiction of Hubbert's peak, and this is by the Cambridge Energy Research Associates, commonly referred to as CERA, and they are trying to indicate that one should not have confidence in the predictions of Hubbert because his curve didn't exactly actually follow his prediction. 
   Well, by golly, it is pretty close to actually following his prediction. Here is the U.S. actual production in red. You will see there is a little second peak here, and the next chart will show that is because of Prudhoe Bay. We found a lot of oil there, but that was not in M. King Hubbert's prediction. He hadn't imagined that we would be going to the North Slope of Alaska to drill. 
   So the little yellow ones here are his prediction. Notice that the actual Lower 48 has followed very closely, very closely, his prediction. We are now down to, even with Prudhoe Bay, we are now down to about half, about 5 million barrels a day. That is the red one over there, as compared to roughly 10 million barrels a day at our peak. 
   The next chart shows better where their oil comes from. Hubbert's prediction covered the Lower 48, and that is this gray area here. Now we need to add to that gas liquids. The big find in Alaska here, and that is what causes this little blip here in the downward slope. I remember a number of years ago, these fabulous discoveries of oil in the Gulf of Mexico, which is supposed  to solve our problem for the foreseeable future, that is the yellow there. Notice it hardly makes a shadow on the downward slope of Hubbert's peak. 
   The next chart is really a chart that we could spend a long while talking about because it has a great deal of information on it. The bars there represent the discoveries, and you notice that we were discovering oil way back in the 1930s, big discoveries in the 1940s, and then lots of discoveries which peaked about 1970, and since then it has been going down, down, down. 
   The solid black line here indicates the amount of oil that we have been using. Notice that for a long while we were accumulating big reserves of oil; everything about this solid black curve is reserves that we have in store that we can use later.     
   But then in about 1980 there, you can see these two curves cross. I say two curves, because obviously you could draw a smooth curve through the peaks here, and these two curves crossed about 1980. Ever since 1980 we have been burning more oil than we found. Today we burn two or three barrels of oil for every barrel of oil that we find. So for this period, between 1980 to the present, we have been using up some of the reserves that we have back here, but still a lot of those reserves remain. 
   Now, what will the future look like? Well, there is a big difference of opinion in what the future will look like. The persons that put this chart together believe that by about 2010, about 3 years or so, the world will peak in oil consumption. Some believe that it has already peaked, others believe it may peak a little after 2010, and then it will go down. 
   Now, they have made some guesses as to how much oil we are going to find. I am not sure I would have drawn that curve exactly that high, because a smooth curve might bring you down about here. I think they have been very generous in the amount of oil that is yet to be discovered. 
   By the way, the world's experts on oil believe that we have, most of them, we have probably found about 95 percent of all the oil that we will ever find. You notice that when we find oil now, we find it in very difficult places to get to. The last big find was in the Gulf of Mexico, through 7,000 feet of water, and then about 30,000 feet of rock and dirt until you get down to the oil. We aren't now developing that field, and I am told, you can be told a lot of things that aren't true and I don't know the veracity of this, but I am told we will be developing that field when oil reaches $211 a barrel, because that is what it will cost to get the oil out of that field. 
   I just want to spend a moment looking at this before we go to the next one. If you draw a smooth curve through these bars, the area under that curve represents the total amount of oil that we have found, and the area under the consumption curve will represent the total amount of oil that we have consumed. 
   Now, it is very obvious that you can't consume oil that you haven't found, and you can make the future, within reason, look anyway you like. But what you can't do is pump oil that you haven't found. Unless you believe that we are going to find a whole lot more oil than indicated by their projection, then you have some choices as to what that downslope is going to look like. 
   You can be very aggressive and use enhanced recovery techniques, you can pump steam down there, you can pump CO  
   2 down there, you can flood it with sea water as the Saudis do to get their oil out. You get it more quickly. But if you get it more quickly, you have less to get later on. 
   So we have choices facing us as to what that downslope will look like. But, remember, you can't pump oil you haven't found, and the area under the consumption curve cannot be larger than the area under the discovery curve. They have to be the same area ultimately, the same volume. 
   Here is a prediction by our Energy Information Agency, and it is a very interesting one, and they use some unusual statistical approaches. But this is a curve through the discovery peaks. Let me put the other one up just quickly so you can see the similarities here. 
   Notice the big peak here in the late 1940s and 1950s and another peak here. They have kind of smoothed that out here. You can see this is the early peak here and then the later peak and then down, down, down. 
   We get to the point we are at now, and they make some very unusual predictions. The yellow line there, they say, is the 95 percent probability, and the green line is the 50 percent probability, and the blue line is the 5 percent probability. And they say that the 50 percent probability is the average, the mean, and, of course, probabilities and means don't mean the same thing, so therefore, that is what our production is more likely to be. 
   Surprisingly, this curve that has been going down for a number of years they thought was going to turn around and go up. But notice for the roughly 5 to 10 years after they drew this first curve, notice the red symbols there. They have been following what you would expect they would follow, and that is the 95 percent probability. Ninety-five percent probably is a whole lot more probable than 50 percent probable, and that is what it has been following. 
   Here is another chart from CERA, and it shows something very interesting. First, I want to look at the left here. This is the low, they say, is the 95 percent probability. Now, the 95 percent probability is the most probable, so it is not the low, it is the most likely. 
   Then they say the high probability is almost 4,000 gigabarrels. The mean is right in the middle. Most of the experts in the world believe that we have found about a little over 2,000 gigabarrels of oil. I use the term ``giga,'' because a billion in England is a million million, and in our country a billion is a thousand million. So everybody understands giga. A giga is a thousand million. We have consumed about half of that and about 1,000 gigabarrels, maybe a little bit more, but roughly a thousand gigabarrels remains. 
   Several Congresses ago I was privileged to share the Energy Subcommittee on Science, and I wanted to get some idea of the dimensions of the problem we face, so we had the world's experts come in for a hearing. And I was surprised at the unanimity. It was like from 970 to 1,040 gigabarrels of oil remaining in the world, not a big spread. 
   Now, what they are showing here is that if in fact we find as much more oil as all the oil that now remains discovered, if we find as much more as all the oil that remains discovered, we will still peak at 2016, 9 years from now, if we find as much more oil as all the oil that now exists, that we know exists in the world. If you don't find that, then we peaked about now and it is going to start down this way. 
   Another thing they have shown here is if you 
   aggressively develop these fields and pump life steam down there or put CO  
   2 down there or pump sea water down there, you can get it more quickly. But then look what happens. It falls off more quickly too. 
   Again, the area under this curve has to be the same thing as the area under this curve. You can't pump more because you are pumping it faster. Now, with enhanced oil discovery, you might get a little more, because you might get some oil that you wouldn't have gotten with conventional techniques. 
   Here is another more recent chart from the Oil Information Agency. They have been pooh-poohing the idea of peak oil. They said it was going to be an undulating plateau. I agree, it is going to be an undulating plateau. So they show here with what I think are wildly optimistic estimates of how much oil we are going to find, they believe that we are going to find twice as much more oil as all the oil we now know exists. That just isn't very probable. 
   But even if we find that much oil, they have a peak. Notice it. They say it is an undulating plateau. I agree. With the world's economies and demands and warmer temperatures, which is why oil is down a bit now, because we have warmer temperatures in our country, I agree it is going to be undulating plateau. They are pooh-poohing the idea of peak oil, and they show in this curve peak oil. They show it I think a good many years beyond when it will actually occur. 
   This little curve down here is closer what I think is reality. They have 1.92 trillion, and it is just a bit over 2 trillion, I think, so maybe it would extend  a little beyond this. But notice they are showing this peak about now, aren't they? So if we don't find this enormous amount of additional oil, it will be peaking about now. What they are saying is if we have only 2.93 trillion, we will be peaking at this point. 
   I have a quote here from one of the world's experts on oil, Dr. Laherrere, and this is what he says, and I think that it is kind of difficult to argue with his logic. Jean Laherrere made an assessment of the USGS report. 
   Now, it is the USGS report that provides the data that permits CERA to make their prognostications. He concludes that the USGS estimate implies a five-fold increase in discovery rate and reserve addition for which no evidence is presented. Such an improvement in performance is in fact utterly implausible, he says, given the great technological achievements of the industry over the past 20 years, the worldwide search and the deliberate effort to find the largest remaining prospects. Today we have 3-D modeling and seismic use, and so we know pretty much what the world's geology looks like. 
   I might take just a moment to talk a little bit about this geology, because it is very important in understanding how much more oil we are likely to find. 
   How did the gas and oil get there? Well, nobody was there when it got there, so we really don't know, but one of the best guess its is that a very long time ago the Earth was very much warmer than it is now. As a matter of fact, there were subtropical seas at the North Shore of Alaska. In the North Sea, there were subtropical seas. And every cycle the vegetation grew, and then when it matured or if there was a fall, and it may have been warm enough there was no true fall, but still there was a cycle of life, and it grew and sank to the bottom as algae does now in the ponds and so forth. And then waters washed erosive materials off the surrounding hills and it mixed with the organic material. This continued for an a large number of years until there was a lot of mixture of organic material and inorganic material there. 
   Then the tectonic plates of the world moved, and we know that happened, and it opened up and sank and went down to a depth where the temperature was appropriate, closer to the molten core of the Earth, and where the pressure was appropriate, and then cooked there under this pressure for who knows how long, and this organic material, mostly plants, maybe a few small animals, gradually became what we know as oil. 
   Now, the oil is made up of molecules of varying lengths. Some are very short and they are in fact gasses, if you let them escape from the oil. Some of them are very long, and that makes the waxes and so forth that we find in oil. 
   Now, if there happened to be a rock dome over top of this deposit way down there that is now being cooked and pressurized for a long while, if there is a rock dome over that, the gas that escapes will be trapped under that rock dome. So when you come along and drill a well through that, and you get down to the oil, the oil is going to be under pressure because of that gas above it. So you have what you call a gusher. The gas pressure above pushes the oil down and up the drill pipe and it continues to gush until that gas pressure has been relieved. 
   Now, this may not be the way that oil and gas were formed, but there isn't any better guess as to how it was formed. And if that is in fact the way it was formed, then we can make some guesses as to how much more oil and gas we are likely to find, because we have done a pretty good job of matching the geology of the Earth. 
   What you need to find is some of this organic material buried deeply for a long while with a rock dome over it so it captures the gas. By the way, if it doesn't capture that gas, you end up with something like the tar pits of California, and you end up with the tar sands, they call them oil sands, they are tar sands, thank you. They flow about as readily as the blacktop driveway out here, unless you heat them up, which is what they do, and combine them with some shorter chain molecules so that when they cool they will still flow. 
   The loss of these gasses has produced what we call our oil shales in the west. By the way, there are huge, huge deposits of these tar sands and oil shales. 
   As a matter of fact, the deposits of each of those represents way more than all the fossil fuels that we now know exist in the world, and the Canadians are making some heroic efforts because their big fields are up in Alberta, Canada, and they have a shovel up there that lifts 100 tons and they dump it into a truck that carries 400 tons and then they carry it and cook it. When it is cooked, why, the oil flows and then they mix it, as I said, with something with shorter molecules, a solvent, so when it cools it will flow and they move it out through pipes. With this heroic effort, they are getting about 1 million barrels a day. That sounds like a lot, 1 million barrels a day, but we use 21 million barrels a day. That is about 5 percent of what we use, and just a bit over 1 percent of what the world uses, because the world uses about 84-85 million barrels a day. 
   And what they are doing is not sustainable, because they are cooking this with natural gas that is what we call stranded. By ``stranded'' we mean there are not very many people there to use it, and natural gas is hard to transport unless you liquefy it and are near a port, so it is cheap. So I understand they may be using more energy from natural gas to produce the oil than they are getting out of the oil. But from a dollar and cents perspective, it makes sense, because the gas is really cheap and they are producing that oily understand for $12 to $25 a barrel, again, you get various estimates of this, and they are getting $50 to $60 barrel for it. So dollars and cents-wise, that makes good sense.     
   From an energy profit ratio, it does not make any sense at all. Natural gas is a high quality feed stock for an enormous petrochemical industry. 
   One of the things that we use it for, by the way, is making nitrogen fertilizer, and without our ability to make nitrogen fertilizer, we could not begin to feed the world. It is not just the plant breeder, and he has done marvelous with developing new plants. It is all of the fossil fuel energy we use in agriculture, and a great deal of that is used in making nitrogen fertilizer from natural gas. 
   I have next a little schematic here, and this kind of smoothes out these curves. By the way, the world has been increasing its use of oil about 2 percent. That does not sound like much, does it, 2 percent? But 2 percent exponential growth doubles in about 35 years. It is four times bigger in 70 years, and it is eight times bigger in 140 years. 
   Albert Einstein was asked after the discovery of nuclear energy and the detonation of the nuclear bomb, Dr. Einstein, what will be the next great energy force in the world? And he said the most powerful force in the universe is the power of compound interest. Exponential growth. 
   I have a namesake, no relative. I wish I had some of his genes. He is really very brilliant. Dr. Albert Bartlett, professor emeritus at the University of Colorado, he gives the most interesting 1-hour lecture I have ever heard on the failure of our industrialized society to understand exponential growth. Just do a Google search for Albert Bartlett and energy, and it will come up and you will be fascinated with this 1-hour lecture. 
   Here we show this little schematic curve. It is a 1 percent growth rate. Remember, that doubles in 35-years. This point is twice as high as this point, and that represents 35 years. Notice that the shortage occurs before we reach the peak. 
   The shape of the bell curve and the exponential growth curve indicate that you are going to have shortfalls in supply, price is going to go up before you might reach the peak, and maybe, just maybe, we are in this time right here. A lot of the evidence indicates that is true. 
   The next chart is one that really gives you some pause when you look at it. Let us just look at the upper one because the bottom one is an expansion of the upper one, separating the gas from the oil here in the red curve. But this shows only what 400 years, a little less than 400 years of more than 5,000 years of recorded history. The use of energy in our world was so small back in 1750 that that brown there which is  wood is just about the baseline, is it not? 
   The industrial revolution started with wood. The hills of England were denuded to make charcoal to make steel. Catoctin Furnace, a little historic site up in Frederick County, they denuded the Catoctin Mountains where Camp David now is, thankfully the trees grew back, they denuded that making charcoal for that furnace. 
   The industrial revolution really took off when they discovered coal, and it was stuttering when they finally discovered gas and oil. Then look what happened. 
   The hockey stick, that is the hockey stick that Congressman Gilchrest was talking about, look what it did. It just goes straight up. Notice here what happened in 1970. There was a real oil price shock there, and the world used somewhat less oil. We are now very efficient in the way we use oil in this country. Air conditioners probably are twice as efficient at least as the ones you used in 1970. If it were not for our increased efficiency we would be in even more trouble with energy today. 
   But what I want to point out is that we are about 100, 150 years into the age of oil. That is this. If Hubbert was right, and he was exactly right about the United States, why should he not be right about the world, this is going to be a bell curve. By the way, you can make this thing look steeper or shallower depending upon the dimensions and the ordinates, the absinthe ordinate and abscissa. Here, of course, we have 400 years on the abscissa so it is very compressed so it makes the curve look higher, but that is exactly the same kind of curve we have here. We just spread out the abscissa here so that we spread it out. If you really push these two things, that is going to peak up high in the middle. 
   Out of 5,000 years of recorded history, the age of oil will represent about 200 to 300 years, remaining about 100, 150 years. What will our world look like post age of oil? 
   The next chart shows us something that is alarming a number of people, and this is a little drawing of the world. It has a number of symbols on it, and one of those symbols shows where China is securing rights to buy oil, and they are all over the world. This symbol here was Unocal. They almost bought Unocal, one of our oil companies. They are buying oil all over the world. They are scouring the world for oil. 
   I just came back from a trip to China, and we went there to talk about energy by the way. I was pleasantly surprised when they began their discussion of energy by saying post-oil. They get it. I wish we did. They talk about post-oil. They recognize that they are big polluters. As a matter of fact, I have a reference here that says by 2010, just 3 years from now, they will be a bigger CO  
   2 producer than we are, in just 3 years. Their economy is growing, the last 2 quarters, at more than 10 percent a year. That doubles in 7 years. It is four times bigger in 14 years. It is eight times bigger in 21 years, 1.3 billion people. I saw essentially no bicycles on the street and traffic jams like we have at rush hour here in Washington. 
   Well, the fact that they are scouring the world for oil indicates their understanding that this is going to be a resource in short supply for the future. We can spend a long time talking about China and what they are doing. They are aggressively building a blue water navy. 
   A blue water navy is different than the brown water navy, brown from the silt that comes out the rivers near shore, little navies that protect you from somebody coming from afar. They are rapidly developing a blue water navy. Last year, for instance, we launched one submarine. They launched 14. Now, their submarines are not ours but 14 submarines is 14 submarines. 
   I have here a very interesting statement from our Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice: ``We do have to do something about the energy problem.'' I am thankful you recognize that. ``I can tell you that nothing has really taken me aback more as Secretary of State than the way the politics of energy is I will use the word `warping' diplomacy around the world. We have simply got to do something now about the warping now of diplomatic efforts by the all-out rush for energy supply.'' 
   It would be nice if everybody in the administration understood that and we were doing something meaningful about it. 
   So what do we do? Well, I think that any rational person would understand that you need to get busy developing some alternatives if you are going to run out of these fossil fuels. By the way, these fossil fuel are just incredible. The energy in these fossil fuels is just unreal. 
   I have an article, really not an article. It was a 
   speech given by Hyman Rickover in 1957, 50 years ago this year, and I want to read something that he says here which is really interesting. He understood 50 years ago, ``With high energy consumption goes a high standard of living. Thus the enormous fossil fuel energy which we in this country control feeds machines which make each of us master of an army of mechanical slaves. Man's muscle power is rated at 35 watts continuously,'' little more than you are working, but you have got to sleep, ``or one-twentieth horsepower. Machines therefore furnish every American industrial worker with energy equivalent to that of 244 men, while at least 2,000 men push his automobile along the road, and his family is supplied with 33 faithful household helpers. Each locomotive engineer controls energy equivalent to that of 100,000 men; each jet pilot of 700,000 men. Truly, the humblest American enjoys the services of more slaves than were once owned by the richest nobles, and lives better than most ancient kings. In retrospect, and despite wars, revolutions, and disasters, the hundred years just gone by may well seem like a Golden Age.'' 
   And it has gotten even more golden in these last 50 years, has it not? 
   Hyman Rickover understood very well our dependence on fossil fuels. One barrel of oil controls the energy of 12 men working all year for you. If you figure out what that costs, it is less than $10 to purchase the equivalent work of a person all year long. 
   Now, if you have some trouble getting your minds around that, imagine how far that gallon of gasoline or diesel fuel carries your car. And by the way, it is considerably cheaper, a little over $2 a gallon, than water in the grocery store. 
   Now, how long would it take you to pull your SUV or your car or push it as far as that little gallon of gasoline or diesel fuel take it? I own a Prius. We get under normal road driving conditions 51 miles a gallon. It would take me a long time to pull my Prius 51 miles. 
   Another indication of the incredible energy benefit from fossil fuels, if you work really hard all day long, I will get more work out of an electric motor for less than 25 cents worth of electricity. It may be humbling to recognize in terms of fossil fuel that we are worth less than 25 cents a day, but that is the reality, and that is why we live so well. 
   As Hyman Rickover understood 50 years ago, if that was true what he said 50 years ago, it is true in spades today, is it not, because we have even more helpers to make our life quality higher as a result of our use of energy. 
   Well, what do we do if we are going to run short of fossil fuels? Obviously, we have no surplus oil to invest in the development of renewables. If we did, oil would not be $50, $60 a barrel, but we can free up some oil and buy some time with a very aggressive conservation program. 
   Matt Simmons, who has written a really good book on Saudi Arabia called ``Twilight in the Desert,'' and he makes the case that Saudi Arabia has probably peaked in oil production. They will not tell you that, but you notice they cannot make good on any promise to increase oil production so he may very well be right. Then after having freed up this energy and bought some time, we must use it very wisely. We would get a lot of benefits from that. 
   Life is just so easy in this country that we are bored. We are watching awful movies. We are doing drugs because we are bored. There is no exhilaration like facing a big challenge and besting that challenge. There is nothing that puts flavor in pie so much as work, and I can imagine Americans, when they understand the problem we face, going to bed at night saying, gee, today, I used less energy than I did yesterday and I lived just fine, and tomorrow I am going to do better.  
   But we need leadership that is not here yet so that we will do that. By the way, big benefits. We could once again become a major exporter. We are the most creative, innovative society in the world. Properly challenged, we will figure ways to get this alternative energy. We could again be a major exporter. Today, we are a big, big importer, as you know, $800 billion trade deficit this year. 
   We are a role model whether we like it or not. When you use 25 percent of the world's energy, you are a role model. Not a very good one today. We profligately use energy, way more energy than the average person in the world. It really is possible to be much more efficient. 
   This is a fascinating chart, such a simple one, but what it shows is the heat that you get out of an incandescent bulb and the light you get out of it. Ninety percent of it is heat which is why I use an electric bulb for brooding little chickens. I am not so much interested in the light as I am the heat from it. Now fluorescents are much better, and I saw there was a Time magazine cover page that had a pile of coal there. I think it was on the cover page, and they have one of these screw-in fluorescent bulbs beside it. Five hundred pounds of coal, that is the amount of coal you save in the life of that one fluorescent bulb, that is here. 
   But notice what you get out of light omitting diodes. I have a little light omitting diode flashlight that I carry. I put two little batteries in it, and I have forgotten when I put them in.     
   It just lasts so long. We have the same amount of light out of each one of these, but notice the enormous amount of heat you are getting out of the incandescent bulb and the tiny amount of heat that you are getting out of the light emitting diode. 
   There are lots of opportunities in our society to live well and comfortably using a lot less energy. I don't have the chart here, but the average Californian uses only about 65 percent as much electricity as the rest of America, and it would be hard to argue that Californians don't live well. 
   This next chart is a really interesting one, and what it shows here on the abscissa is the amount of energy that we are using per person and what it shows on the ordinate here is how good you feel about life. You couldn't feel any better than 100 percent, and notice where we are. We are the biggest users of energy in the whole world and we feel pretty good about it; but notice how many countries that use less energy than we feel even better than their quality of life. Let's go way back here to Colombia. They use a fifth as much energy as we; they feel almost as good about their quality of life as we feel. 
   If you drew a curve through this, you need some minimum energy to feel good about life, but once you go up that steep part of the curve, the minimum energy is pretty flat. We can move way back here on the curve and feel just as good as we do now about life. You don't have to use the amount of energy that we use to feel as good about life as we do. 
   The average European, the countries are scattered through there, but the average European uses half the energy we use and, by the way, pays more than twice as much per gallon of gasoline and they have been doing that for a very long time. 
   We are shortly going to run out of our 60 minutes this evening and we will need to come back to finish this, but obviously we have got some finite resources here that we can use. When we come back, we are going to talk about the resources available to us to meet the challenge of transitioning from fossil fuels to renewables. And, by the way, we will transition either on a time scale that we have chosen or on a time scale chosen by geology. 
   As we run down the other side of Hubbard's Peak and the world has less and less supply of fossil fuels, we will transition. It can be a bumpy ride, or it can be a really bumpy ride. But Americans are up to it. We need leadership and knowledge. And we will be back again to talk about the finite resources available to us and all those fascinating opportunities in renewables. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I believe this is the 24th time since the 14th day of last March that I have come to this floor to talk about a subject which is growing in importance. That subject is energy. 
   I had the privilege of leading a codel to China. We left just after Christmas and we spent New Year's in Shanghai. There were nine of us who went there, and the primary purpose of that congressional delegation was to talk to the Chinese primarily about energy. 
   I was both surprised, shocked, and really pleasantly surprised that they began their conversation about energy by talking about post oil. This just wasn't the energy people in China, it was high officials in other parts of the government. Everywhere we went and spoke with them, they talked about post-oil, a recognition that oil cannot be forever, and they talked about a five-point program. 
   The first point of this program was conservation, a recognition that the world has no surplus energy to invest in developing alternatives. If there was any surplus energy, we wouldn't be paying $60 a barrel for oil. 
   Conservation not only frees up oil, but it buys some time because if we in  fact are producing oil at the rate at which it is consumed and we cannot easily increase that production, then we have not only run out of surplus energy, we have also run out of time. So an aggressive conservation program will buy some time and free up some energy that we can invest in alternatives. 
   So the first part of their five-point plan was conservation. The second and third points was diversify, get energy from as many other nonfossil fuel sources as you can, and get as much of it as you can from your own country. From a national security perspective, that makes good sense. 
   The fourth point in their five-point program, and again, it wasn't just the energy people in China talking about this, it was leaders in government in several other parts of the government, the fourth part of their five-point plan was be kind to the environment. You think, gee, that is strange they would say that since they are the world's biggest polluter. They are the world's biggest country. Their economy grew at 11.4 percent for the last quarter. And they know they are a big polluter. They are apologetic. They have 1.3 billion people, and they don't know how to use energy wisely, and they are asking for cooperation so they might use their energy as efficiently as we use ours. 
   The fifth point was that we need international cooperation because this planet is a little spaceship, not all that big. It once seemed absolutely enormous when we sailed the ocean in sailing ships, but now with airplanes it seems much smaller. We are here together, so we have a global responsibility. 
   I thought of this attitude on the part of the Chinese when I read an article that appeared in the New York Times on page 1 on March 5. It says, ``Oil innovations pump new life into old fields.'' 
   Bakersfield, California. That is out in the desert. I used to teach medical school out there and drove through Bakersfield coming east. This states the Kern River oil field, discovered in 1899, revived when Chevron engineers here started injecting high-pressure steam to pump out more oil. The field, whose production had slumped to 10,000 barrels a day in the 1960s now has a daily output of 85,000 barrels. In Indonesia, Chevron has applied the same technology to the giant Duri oil field discovered in 1941, increasing production there to more than 200,000 barrels a day, up from 65,000 barrels a day in the mid-1980s. And in Texas, ExxonMobil, the world's largest oil company, expects to double the amount of oil it extracts in its Means field which dates back to the 1930s. Exxon, like Chevron, will use three-dimensional imaging of the underground field and the injection of gas, in this case carbon dioxide, to flush out the oil. 
   I might pause to interject here that this is a very appropriate use of carbon dioxide. It is a greenhouse gas. Its concentration in the atmosphere has about doubled in the last couple hundred years, and most of the world's scientists who study weather believe that the Earth's temperature is increasing and that the greenhouse gases, chief among them carbon dioxide, are responsible. So sequestering the carbon dioxide and pumping it down into these wells to force the oil out is a doubly good thing. It keeps it from going into the atmosphere, and it gets some additional oil. 
   This article continues, within the last decade, technology advances have made it possible to unlock more oil from old fields, and at the same time higher oil prices have made it economical for companies to go after reserves that are harder to reach. With plenty of oil still left in familiar locations, forecasts that the world's reserves are drying out have given way to predictions that more oil will be found than ever before. 
   Well, I have a chart here which looks at the oil discoveries back through the last number of years, last 70 years, and we see here in the bar graph the discoveries of oil and we see there were some big discoveries in the 1940s and 1950s and 1970s and down in the 1980s. And ever since that time, it has been down, down, down. That is in spite of ever-better technology for discovering oil. 
   They mention the 3-D seismic computer modeling they are using. We now have a pretty good idea of the Earth's geology, and so we know where we might find gas and oil. Some very unique geological conditions are necessary in order to have gas and oil. We don't really know how the oil and gas got there, but there are some reasonable conjectures, and if you understand these conjectures and if they are correct, it gives you some clue as to how much more gas and oil we are likely to find. 
   The most popular theory goes that a long time ago when the Earth was more uniformly warm than today, there did not appear to be the torrid equator or the frigid poles, and because there were subtropical seas at the North Slope and in ANWR and in Prudhoe Bay, and those subtropical seas had a seasonal growth and then death of algae-like organisms and maybe some small, animal organisms with them like the algae that grows on your pond today. I don't know that they had winters, but they had seasonal growth, and each season it would mature and die and then sink to the bottom, and Earth runoff would mix in and overlay it, and then the next year another layer of the organic material was deposited. This continued until there was big buildup, a lot like at the bottom of a lake. 
   Then the theory says that the tectonic plates of the Earth moved and surface seas with all of the organic material mixed with the inorganic, rock and sand, were now submerged down under considerable pressure and near enough to the molten core of the Earth there was just the right combination of pressure and temperature. And with time, this organic material was converted into what we know as gas and oil. 
   Now the products were some very short-chain products such as gases, methane, the shortest of the chains; and then very long chain ones which end up as Vasoline or waxes or something like that. If there was not a rock dome over this, kind of an umbrella of rock, then the gases would have escaped through the years and what would be left was some tarry stuff that you couldn't pump because you would have to heat it up. That is known as heavy oil where it exists today. You have to heat it up or mix it with volatiles to get it moving. 
   This dome keeps the gas from escaping. This was the explanation why for many oil wells when you finally pump down into the oil, it is not a pocket of oil that you are sucking out like a soda through a straw. It is all mixed with sand and rock, fractured rock and so forth, but it will flow. For wells that were gushers, this gas pressure that accumulated under the rock dome was now pushing down on this oil, and it pushed it up the well pipe. So we had these gushers.     
   Well, this may not have been the way that oil and gas was produced, but it certainly sounds logical because that is where we find it, where we have these rock domes and so forth. What that means is, of course, that with these current techniques that we have of mapping the world, we can find those areas which have rock domes, which were likely to and with the location relative to the edges of the tectonic place, we can now identify where it is probable that you might find gas and oil production. And with ever-increased capabilities, computer modeling and 3-D seismic, we have found less and less oil through the years. 
   Now, this chart has another curve on it, and that is the consumption curve. Interesting curve. You will notice for a long time we were finding enormously more oil than we were using, because we were using this much, but we had found that much. But from about 1980 on, increasingly we have found less and less oil and used more and more oil. 
   I would like you to note the interesting change in the curve here in the 1970s. There was a stunning statistic up until the seventies, the Carter years, with this rate of increase and use. Every decade the world was using as much oil as it had used in all of previous history. Now that is a stunning statistic. What that means is that when you have used half the world's oil, there would then be 10 years left at current use rates. Well, we had a big shock in the 1970s at the Arab oil embargo, and we learned how to be much more efficient. For, what, 10 years or so here, there was essentially no increase in oil, and now it is slowly going  up again as the world's economies grow. In China, bicycles are banned on some of their streets. I was late getting to one of the appointments there because of traffic jams in Beijing. I was, a couple of years ago, in Moscow, and traffic jams in Moscow. I was there in 1973, and the streets were essentially deserted. The only cars I saw there were a few government cars. So all over the world there is a surge in interest in automobiles, and they are now being bought by the Indians. And not very long, the Indian middle class will be as big as our whole population. Information technology, which they excel, is increasing this middle class. 
   Now, this chart looks at what the future may hold. This article that I just read, ``Oil Innovations Pump New Life Into Old Wells'' says that we are going to have more oil than we have ever found. Now, we are not really finding new oil, most of this is oil that is in some of these fields, and these bars will go up higher here because now, with enhanced recovery, we are able to get more oil out. And they are making the projection that we are going to find as much more oil as we have remaining. And one projection is, and I will come to that in a few moments, that we are going to find as much more oil as we have ever found. 
   The next chart shows an interesting picture. This is the same consumption curve that you saw there with the same perturbations between the seventies and the eighties as a result of the Arab oil embargo. 
   Now, this chart, which is from our Energy Information Agency, is assuming something that I think is not rational to assume, and that is that we are going to find as much more oil as all of the reserves which we now know to exist. 
   A couple of congresses ago, I chaired the Energy Subcommittee on Science, and one of the first things I wanted to do was to determine the dimensions of the problem, and so we had oil experts from all over the world come in. How much oil did we find? How much of what we found is still there? And there was surprising unanimity from just under 2,000 giga barrels to just over 2,000 giga barrels. That is their figure here of 2.248,000 billion barrels. 
   Now, we use giga barrels. They said billion barrels here, that is because it is for an American audience. But if you were in England, a billion is a million million, in this country it is a thousand million. So you may confuse the audience when you are talking about billions. If you use giga, apparently gigs is a billion the world around. But what I want to point out in this chart is that even if they are correct, that the main amount, expected amount of oil that we will find, is 3,000 giga barrels, that moves the peak out from the present to only 2016. So even if they are right, and I think the probability that they are right is small, and I will give you several evidences of that as we go along, but even if they are right, even if we find as much more oil as all the reserves that we now know to exist out there, that will move the peak out only from about now, when most of those who work in this area believe that peaking has occurred or will shortly occur. If we find there is much more as that which remains, and by the way, of this 2,248,000 giga barrels, we have used about half of that, and about half of it remains. Now, with this enhanced oil recovery that this article is talking about from the New York Times, we will get a bit more of that. How much more remains to be seen. But if we find this extra roughly thousand giga barrels, that will only move the peak out to 2016. Now, one of the authorities in this area believes that we will find another thousand giga barrels, and we will be up around 4,000 giga barrels total. If that is true, since this is an exponential curve, and this was only, what, 16 years? The next may be only 12 years. So that moves the peak out only to about 2028. And that assumes that we are going to find as much more oil as all the oil that has ever been found. 
   The next chart shows an interesting prediction, and the data that was collected following the prediction. This shows the discovery curves. What this does here is to kind of round out those big bars that you saw in the previous one. And here they have done a very interesting thing. They have taken the F-5, F-50 and F-95, which was fractional, and I don't have the chart to how they got there, but I can tell you how they got there. What they did is run a lot of simulations. And they had the number of simulations on the ordinate, and they had the amount of oil that the simulation indicated would be found on the abscissa. So, they put these numbers into their computer simulation, and they got numbers out, and they graft all those numbers. And then they found the mean of those numbers, and they found that 95 percent, which meant that 95 percent of the predictions indicate you would find more oil than that and so forth. And so they assumed that the most likely thing would be the mean. Now, it was a mean of their projections. But somehow that F got translated when it went from USGS to the Energy Information Agency, it got translated to P, which is the probability. Now, if this is really probability, this is a bizarre use of statistics. 
   So they show here three probabilities. They show the P-95 probability, the P-50 probability and the P-5 probability. Now, if these really are probabilities, there should be another green line coming down this way; because if you are only 50 percent certain, obviously that is a pretty broad funnel you create out there. If you are only 5 percent certain, it is really broad. It is like the path of the hurricane. For the next 24 hours, they know pretty well where it will be, so that is pretty narrow. But as you go out in time, 2, 3 and 4 days, why it gets wider and wider because you are less and less certain of where it is going. So there should have been another green line down here and another blue line down here because you have a broad uncertainty if 
   you are only 5 percent certain. 
   But notice what the actual data points have been doing. They have been following, as you might suspect, the 95 percent probability, if in fact it is probability. Obviously 95 percent probable is a lot more probable than 50 percent probable. 
   In a wide-ranging study published in 2000, a U.S. Geological Survey estimated that ultimately recoverable sources of conventional oil total about 3.3 trillion barrels, that was this little mean number in the previous chart right here, of which a third has already been produced. What has been produced is a half of what we have discovered. They are predicting that we will discover for that mean, as they call it, as much more oil as all of the reserves that we now know to exist. 
   More recently, Cambridge Energy Research Associates, an energy consultant, estimates the total base of recoverable oil, and here they have 4.8 trillion. The little chart I showed you before had that at just under 4 trillion, you will remember. But notice from the peaking chart that even if that is true, that will push peaking out to only a bit before 2030. That is not all that far into the future. 
   Then they say there is a minority view held largely by a small band of retired petroleum geologists and some Members of Congress, that would be me, that oil production has peaked, but the theory they say has been fading. Well, they should have told that to T. Boone Pickens, because an Associated Press article, March 1 of this year, just a few days ago, this is from Doha, Qatar, he is over there talking about oil. And by the way, I didn't know until I read this article that he started his professional life as a petroleum geologist. We know him as a very wise investor on Wall Street. Legendary Texas oil man T. Boone Pickens sees today's stubbornly high price as evidence that daily global production capacity is at or very near its peak. 
   If demand for crude rises beyond the current global output of roughly 85 million barrels a day, Pickens told the Associated Press, prices will rise to compensate, and alternative sources of energy will begin to replace petroleum. If I am right, T. Boone Pickens says, we are already at the peak. If that is true, the price will have to go up. 
   And then he makes this statement: ``I think there are less reserves around the world than are being reported.'' Well, the two sources I mention are reporting greatly increased reserves. T. Boone Pickens says that he believes that they are over-reporting, said the 78-year-old former--by the way, young people can be very bright, but wisdom comes with age, and so T. Boone Pickens has 78 years of wisdom--who now  heads the Dallas-based Hedge Fund BP Capital. There are no audited reserves in the Mid East. It makes me suspicious, he says. We really don't know how much oil is in the Mideast because they do not open their books for us to see. 
   Forbes publisher, Steve Forbes, challenged Pickens' assumptions during an exchange during the conference saying political, not technological or geological, road blocks stood in the way of increasing the world's oil production. Now, I know Steve Forbes, and I admire him very much, but I think that he gives far too much credit to the marketplace. Many people believe that the market is both omniscient, that is, all knowledgeable, and omnipotent, all powerful. 
   If we had unlimited resources, the market might do what Steve Forbes has confidence that it will do. With the right incentives in places, such as Mexico, more oil could be brought to market and prices could drop, Forbes said. Pickens responded by saying that Mexico is a declining producer of oil, as are most other countries, indeed. Thirty-five out of the top 43 oil-producing countries in the world have already reached peak.     
   Pickens responded by saying that Mexico is a declining producer of oil, as are most other countries, naming the United States, Norway, Britain and soon Russia. By the way, Russia did peak once already, and then they kind of fell apart with the dissolution of the Soviet Union. They are reaching a second peak, which I believe will be less than the first peak. 
   ``The world has been looked at,'' Pickens told Forbes. ``There is still oil to be found, but not in the quantities we have seen in the past. The big fields have been found and the smaller fields, well, there is just not enough of them to replenish the base. Global consumers, led by the United States, have already pumped 1.1 trillion barrels of oil, roughly half of the 2.2 trillion barrels that have been discovered,'' or what Pickens describes as nearly half of the world's estimate. He thinks we will find a little more, 2.5 trillion barrels of oil. Other experts put reserves at 3 trillion, Energy Information Agency; or 4 trillion barrels of oil, Cambridge Energy Research Associates. 
   ``From now on,'' Pickens said, ``rising demand will be met by higher prices, rather than ever larger crude oil production. Alternative energy sources will begin to take a share of the energy market until the world evolves from a hydrocarbon-based economy to something that is a mix of hydrocarbons and something else. Everything from nuclear, coal, wind, solar, hydrogen and biofuels stands a chance to assuage growing demand for energy.'' 
   I would just like to make a comment about hydrogen. All the others are truly energy sources. Nuclear, coal, wind, solar, biofuels are energy sources. Hydrogen is not an energy source. So why do we list it there? You can't mine hydrogen; you can't pump hydrogen. The only way you can get hydrogen is to make it from something else. Unless you are going to violate the second law of thermodynamics, it will always take more energy to make hydrogen than you will get out of hydrogen. 
   It is made today largely from natural gas. It can also be made by electromagnetizing water, splitting water into hydrogen and oxygen. Well, if you will always use more energy to make the hydrogen than you get out of the hydrogen, why would we be interested in hydrogen? 
   Well, for two reasons. One is that when you finally burn it, you get water. Water is the oxide of hydrogen. When you burn hydrogen, you get hydrogen oxide. We commonly call it water. That is pretty nonpolluting. 
   The second reason we are interested is that it is a great candidate for fuel cells if we ever get economically supportable fuel cells. We have been working on them for a long time, experts tell us, maybe 20 years. We will have economically supportable fuel cells, but that's the reason we talk about hydrogen. 
   A lot of people believe hydrogen is an energy source. Hydrogen, think of it as a battery, is something that carries energy from one place to another place. You can't put the falling water in your car and run it, nor can you put the electricity, unless you have a lot of batteries in your car to run the car, but you can take the electricity you get from the hydroelectric plant, split water, compress the hydrogen, put the hydrogen in your car. So you are really running your car on the energy from the waterfall. 
   But secondhand you produce hydrogen with it, and if you have a fuel cell in your car, now you will not only be running your car, polluting, just with water, which is pretty nonpolluting, but you will also get at least twice the efficiency out of that as you get out of the reciprocating engine. 
   The next chart is a very interesting one that shows us the sources to which one might turn to get energy other than the energy we get from fossil fuels. This chart reminds me very much of a young couple whose grandmother has died and left them a big inheritance, and they now have established a pretty lavish lifestyle. Eighty-five percent of all the money they spent came from their grandmother's inheritance and only 15 percent of the money they spend comes from what they earn. 
   They look at their grandmother's inheritance and how old they are, and, gee, this money is not going to last until we retire, so obviously we have got to do something, and that something is going to be either make more money or spend less money. That is pretty much exactly where we are relative to energy. 
   Eighty-five percent, some people will tell you 86 percent, but 85 percent of all the energy that we are expending today comes from natural gas, from petroleum, and from coal; and that leaves only 15 percent of the gas to come from other sources, of energy to come from other sources. 
   A bit more than half of that 15 is nuclear energy. That is 20 percent of our electricity, and in France, by the way, about 80 or 85 percent of their electricity comes from nuclear; and in our country, about 20 percent, but it is 8 percent of our total energy. 
   So when you look at the true renewables, only 7 percent now, it is a little different that this today, because this is a 2000 chart, and we have been really ramping up with solar cells, for instance, producing solar electricity. That market has been growing at about 30 percent a year. That is incredible growth. 
   But this started out as 1 percent of 7 percent, that is .07 percent. Suppose it is four times bigger today, that is .28 percent, less than a third of a percent, big deal. We have got a long way to go. 
   Thirty-eight percent of this renewable energy comes from wood, but that is not the person heating their house with wood so much as it is the timber industry and the paper industry wisely using what would otherwise be a waste product to produce energy. Waste to energy, 8 percent of this 7 percent. 
   There is a really state-of-the-art plant up here in Dickerson. They will be happy to have you come visit. It is really a showcase, and they are burning waste to produce electricity. 
   Now, one word of caution about waste: that huge stream of waste represents a big investment of fossil fuels, and don't count on having that big stream of waste in an energy-deficient world. We will live comfortably, we can live comfortably, but we will be producing far less waste in the future because all of that waste represents the use of fossil fuels. 
   If T. Boone Pickens is correct, and, by the way, he is not the only one, there are a number of experts out there who believe that we have peaked or are about to peak, there will be less and less of this waste. But at least for a moment it is a great use of this waste material, much better, I think, than putting it in a landfill. Recycle what you can; what you can't recycle, why, burn it to produce energy. 
   Wind. That is growing; it is really efficient. Our big wind machines today are producing electricity at about 2.5 cents a kilowatt hour. By the way, none of those big ones are made in our country. I hope we can change that, but Norway makes them, for instance. 
   These are huge machines with blades that turn very slowly. You have to be a really sick bird or bat that flew into those. These aren't the little ones they had first where the blades twirled around quickly and did kill some birds and bats. You may have seen them. They are really quite large, and, I think, quite handsome.  
   That could and should grow. It is really growing in California. It is a totally renewable resource. By the way, the wind is simply secondhand sun. The wind blows 
   because the sun heats the Earth unequally and so it is differential temperatures on the surface that cause the winds to blow. 
   Then the big chunk of these renewables are conventional hydroelectric. Now, in our country we have pretty much tapped out on the conventional hydroelectric. We probably dammed every river that should have been dammed and maybe a few that shouldn't have been dammed. They are now building fish ladders, and we are blowing up some of those dams because we think that the environmental pressures are greater than the relatively small amount of electricity we get from some of those. 
   That probably can't grow much in our country, conventional, but microhydro produces far less environmental impact and some believe might be as big as conventional hydro. This is a little dam and small amounts of electricity, maybe only watts, but 100 watts, 24/7, that will produce a fair amount of light for your reading, for instance. 
   At this 2000 chart, alcohol fuel represented 1 percent of 7 percent, that is .07 percent. Today it represents more than that. We have a number of ethanol plants; it is growing very rapidly. There is a very interesting speech given by Hyman Rickover to an audience of physicians. The 50th anniversary of that will be in just a few days, few weeks, the 14th day of May. In that article he noted, that speech, really, we used to have a transcript of it, he noted that one day there would be competition between energy and food for our biological crops. 
   I thought of that when I spent some time on a couple of occasions recently with our dairymen; and what has happened is that with the relatively small amount of ethanol we have made from corn, the supply demand has been so changed that in September of last year corn was $2.11 a bushel, and in December it was $4.08 a bushel, nearly double. The price of tortillas in Mexico has gone up, which is hurting poor people there, and our dairymen are going bankrupt because of the high cost of feed. Now, this is a boon to the corn producer, but it is anything but that to the animal feeder, because with the relatively small amount of ethanol that we have made, we have doubled the price of corn. 
   Well, this pretty much is where we are going to have to find alternative energy sources, and it is quite obvious, if you stop and think about it. You may want to put this off into the future, but at some point we will reach peak oil. I think we are there or nearly there for conventional oil. 
   Then at some point in the future, oil and gas will be so hard to find, and so expensive, that other sources of energy will be more attractive. We will look back in the future at the age of oil, and what an incredible age it was. 
   If you do a Google search for Hyman Rickover and energy, you will pull up the transcript of this fascinating talk that he gave almost 50 years ago. He, in that talk, goes through a very interesting history of the development of civilization and the role that energy played in the development of that civilization. 
   All one has to do is kind of reverse the tape, as you may see, when somebody jumps into a swimming pool, and you reverse the tape and they jump back out of the swimming pool. So we can see the contributions energy made to the development of civilization, and you reverse that tape, you can get some idea as to what would happen to our civilization if we are not able to derive energy from other sources equivalent to that, which we are getting from fossil fuels. 
   The next chart is a very interesting one from CERA, Cambridge Energy Research Associates, and this has several projections of peaking on it. 
   Now, the title of this article is ``Undulating Plateau Versus Peaking,'' and what they are contending in the article is that those who believe in peaking probably also believe in the tooth fairy, that they are about as probable. But in that article they have this graph which shows a peak. I agree with them that it will not be a smooth plateau, that it will be undulating. 
   I disagree that it will be that far in the future and it will be that broad. But let's look at this chart. They agree that if we find no additional large quantities of oil, that's the roughly 2 trillion barrels that will have been found, that's the current discovered oil in the previous charts, the peaking will be occurring fairly soon. 
   If we find another, roughly another trillion barrels by enhanced recovery and going under 7,000 feet of water and 30,000 feet of rock, as that last oil find in the Gulf of Mexico was, that we can get that much more conventional oil. So peaking will be pushed out to about this point.     
   And then they are looking at unconventional oil. And just a word about some of that unconventional oil. There are incredibly large potential reserves of unconventional oil. For instance, the tar sands of Alberta, Canada, contain more potential oil than all the oil that has been discovered so far. The same thing is true of our oil shales out in Utah and Colorado. 
   So why aren't we resting easy then that there is no problem for the immediate future because there is this incredible reserve of oil? Now, they believe that we are going to tap a pretty large amount of that. 
   In Alberta, Canada, they are exploiting this field. They have a shovel which lifts 100 tons at a time. It dumps into a truck which hauls 400 tons, and they carry this 400 tons to a cooker. They have what is called stranded natural gas in Alberta, a lot of gas and not many people. And since gas is hard to transport, it is not worth much because there is not many people there to use it, so we call it stranded. So its value is low. And from a dollar and cents perspective, they are making a lot of money in Alberta. It is costing between $18 and $25 a barrel; that is bringing $60 a barrel. That is a very handsome profit, so they are aggressively exploiting this field. They are using natural gas to cook the oil. The natural gas will not last forever. They know that, so now they are looking at the possibility of building a nuclear power plant there. 
   I have asked: How long do you have to operate a nuclear power plant before you get back to the fossil fuel energy it took to build the nuclear power plant? I get wildly divergent estimates of how long that is, which makes the point that we really need for this dialogue, which we really need to have, we really need an honest broker to help us agree on the facts, because it is very difficult to have an enlightened discussion when you can't agree on the facts. That honest broker might very well be the National Academy of Sciences. They are very knowledgeable. They are highly respected, and I think that they would assume this responsibility and I hope that we can find the resources so that they can do that. 
   Now, the Canadians know that this is not sustainable. The gas will run out. And, in addition to that, this vein, if you think of it as a vein which has now pretty much surfaced, it will shortly duck under a heavy underlay so there will be a lot of material to remove above it, so much so that they could not economically continue to mine it and carry it to the cooker. So then they will have to develop it in situ, in place. They really don't know yet how they would do that. 
   Now, the real profit that you need to look at in any of these things is what is called energy-profit ratio, how much energy you put in and how much energy you get out. In the big oil fields, and we have no giant oil fields in our country. We have never had one. The Ghawar War Field, perhaps the grand daddy of all oil fields in Saudi Arabia, has been producing oil for a very long time, and for much of its life, it was producing $100 worth of oil for $1 worth of investment, energy-profit ratio of 100. 
   Our oil was never that good. It started out maybe 10 or 20, and now it is down to 1 or 2 energy-profit ratio, how much energy you have to put in compared to how much energy you get out. And so although there are very large potential reserves in these unconventional oil fields, the net that you get out will be very much less. Even if it is feasible to get it out, the net will be very much less than the amount of oil which is there. 
   Now, they are working very hard in Canada. It is a huge enterprise. They are producing about 1 million barrels a  day. That is a lot. But that is less than 5 percent of what we use in this country, and just a bit more than 1 percent of the 85 million barrels a day that the world uses. So even though this is a tremendous effort and a lot of oil produced, it still is making a fairly small contribution to the total amount of oil in the world. 
   Now, I would ask the listener, Mr. Speaker, to draw their own conclusions: How much additional oil do you think we will get from current fields with enhanced oil recovery? Even if we get as much more as all of the present projected reserves, that will only push the peak by their own chart, which we saw a bit ago, out to 2016. And if we find double the amount of oil that we have ever found, it pushes it out only to about 2027 or 2028. That is not the distant future. 
   The next chart is really an interesting one, and I think graphically this kind of presents the dilemma that the world is in, and this is what the geography of world would look like if the size of a country was relative to the amount of oil reserves that it has. It is a really interesting map; isn't it? Saudi Arabia dwarfs everything else. And notice little Kuwait, a tiny corner of Iraq. You can see now why Saddam Hussein was interested in Kuwait, a tiny province down there at the southeastern corner of Iraq, just a fraction of the geography of Iraq, but nearly as big as Iraq. It dwarfs the United States. Here we are; we would fit five times into Kuwait. They have five times the reserves that we have. 
   Notice the two largest countries in the world, China and India; 1,300,000,000 people in China; 1 billion in India and growing. They don't have the birth control, the population control they have in China, and it won't be very long until India's population is equal to that of China. I mentioned a bit ago that it won't be too long before the middle class in India is the size of our total population, 300 million people. They all want cars. They all want heated and air conditioned homes. All of this takes energy. 
   So the traditional roughly 2 percent increase per year in energy demand is going to pick up with the development of countries like China and like India. Russia, which is now a huge exporter of oil, notice, they are only four times the size of the United States, a fraction of the size of Saudi Arabia, probably a bit smaller than Kuwait. 
   Notice where most of the world's oil is. There is some in this hemisphere, in Venezuela, but the rest of it 
   is all northern Africa and the Middle East. Someone had noted that it is very strange that the world of Islam has most of the oil and the Christian world has most of the arable land. It seems to me there ought to be some opportunity for partnering. We can produce the food; they can produce the energy. But those kind of relationships in this confrontational world are hard to achieve. 
   The next chart is one that further develops this picture. And what this shows is the world, not as that would be proportioned by oil but as it is, and it shows what the symbols here, who is buying oil where. And these symbols for China, you notice one here, they almost bought Unocal in our country, and China is now buying up oil around the world very aggressively, not just buying oil, but in the process making friends. ``Would you like a hospital? How about a soccer field?'' And the Chinese are doing this all over the world. You can see their symbols where they are all over the world, and notice many of them in that oil rich crest of Africa and the Middle East. 
   Why are they doing this? The Chinese economy is growing at over 10 percent. The last quarter for which I saw data was 11.4 percent. They have to have observed that oil is fungible; that it really doesn't matter who owns the oil, which is why I didn't have any big problem with them buying Unocal. It doesn't really matter who owns the oil. The country, the company that gets the oil is the high bidder because oil moves in a global marketplace. Today, it was roughly $61 a barrel. So it doesn't make one bit of difference who owns the oil. The person who has the money, who bids the highest, gets the oil. 
   So, if this is how oil moves on the world market, why would China be buying up all of this oil? We happen to have one of the largest reserves of coal. We have 250 years of coal at current use rates. But if you increase the use of coal only 2 percent; by the way, this exponential growth is poorly understood by most people. After the discovery of nuclear energy, Dr. Einstein was asked what the next great energy source in the world would be, and he kind of jokingly responded that there was nothing quite like the power of compound interest. 
   Let me tell you just a little story to help understand this. The story is told that chess was developed in an ancient small kingdom. And the king was very appreciative, and he told the inventor of chess that, ``You have made such a contribution to our culture that I will give you anything reasonable that you ask.'' 
   And so the inventor said, ``Oh, king. I am a very simple man. I have simple needs. If you would just take my chess board with, what, 64 squares on it, and if you put a grain of wheat on the first square and two grains of wheat on the second square and four grains of wheat on the third square and eight on the fourth and so forth until you filled all of the squares of the chess board, that will be an adequate compensation.'' 
   The king said to himself, ``Foolish fellow. I would have given him anything reasonable. All he is asked for is a little wheat on his chess board.'' 
   The king of course could not do that, because the amount of wheat that would have been on that chess board I understand represents a decade of world harvest of wheat. That is what exponential increase does. 
   Well, the world has been increasing at about 2 percent a year. That rate of growth will increase. There is an easy formula that you can use. If you divide the percentage growth into 70, it will give you doubling time. So 2 percent growth doubles in 35 years; 10 percent growth doubles in 7 years. So you can now get doubling time if you divide the percent into 70. 
   This coal that would last us 250 years, if you have only 2 percent increase in growth, that exponential function decreases the duration of its use to just 85 years. And since coal will not be useful for many of the uses of energy that we have, we are going to have to convert it into a gas or a liquid. And the energy to do that if you take it from coal will now reduce the amount of time that that 250 years of coal will last to 50 years. 
   But since energy sources move on a world market, we might be expected to share that liquid from coal or gas from coal with the rest of the world. And since we use 1/4 of the world's energy, that 50 years divided by 4 comes down to 12 1/2 years. So this amazing 250 years of coal suddenly shrinks to just 12 1/2 years at only 2 percent growth if we are sharing it with the rest of the world. 
   Well, we may decide that, since the coal is ours, that we won't need to share it with the rest of the world if there is an acute energy shortage here.     
   That would be a logical decision that a country would make. 
   Now, if we, if there is a possibility we would not want to share our coal with the rest of the world, is there a possibility that China might not want to share their oil, which they have now bought in all of these countries around the world; that they would not want to share their oil with the rest of the world? 
   Mr. Speaker, with that thought in your mind, you might reflect on the fact that China today is aggressively building a blue water navy. Some I think 60 percent of their oil goes through the Straits of Moloch. We now could cut off that oil. 
   From a national security perspective, I can understand why they would have a meaningful interest in a blue water navy large enough to protect their supply lines for oil. 
   By the way, talking about choke points for oil, I think 40 percent of the world's oil moves through the Straits of Hormuz. And if that were mined, or if super tankers were sunk there to block that, 40 percent decrease in the amount of oil would bring all of the world's economies to their knees, essentially overnight. I hope that we are guarding well the Straits of Hormuz because that would, indeed, be the ultimate in asymmetric attack. 
   I have here a little article called, ``Corn Based Plastic Coming Soon.''  Now, of course, we live in a plastic world. And all of these plastics are made from oil. If you will look at your car, if you look at your home, you look at your television set, you look at almost anything in your environment, and I suspect this rug was made out of oil. Our pesticides, our herbicides, our pharmaceuticals, our make up, this is all made out of oil or a great part of it is made out of oil. So there is an interest in getting the things we make out of oil, much of our clothing is made out of oil, interested in being able to get these fibers, this material from something else, and so this is an article, ``Corn Based Plastic Coming Soon.'' 
   Every bushel of corn that we produce requires a lot of fossil fuel energy. And almost half that energy comes from natural gas, which currently is used to make nitrogen fertilizer. Corn, as a plant, is a pig. It requires and uses incredible amounts of nutrients. And we have now engineered hybrid corn so that it can be planted close together. It grows rapidly. It uses the sunlight efficiently, and it uses enormous amounts of energy. And so, this corn based plastic that they are talking about, I don't know what the efficiency there is. But if it is no better than the efficiency of making ethanol, and ethanol, remember, every gallon of ethanol represents at least three-fourths of a gallon of fossil fuel to make it. Some, Dr. Pimenthal, for instance, believes that if you really cost-account all the energy that goes into producing corn, that you use more fossil fuel energy to produce the corn than you get out of the corn. I hope he is wrong. I believe he is wrong. Anyway, after you have produced the ethanol from the corn, you still have a pretty good feed left, and I don't think his calculation took that into effect. 
   So this corn based plastic really is, in large measure, just recycling fossil fuels. It may make you feel good to say that my shirt is made from corn. But when you recognize the incredible amounts of fossil fuel energy, if it is the same efficiency as using ethanol, at least three-fourths of the fiber of your shirt might just as well have been made from oil because that oil or some fossil fuel source was used in growing the corn from which the plastic was made. 
   Mr. Speaker, we will continue next week. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (CONGRATULATING THE X PRIZE FOUNDATION -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, just a few days ago, Shell Oil Company sent out a press release saying that by no later than 2015 the world would not be able to meet the demands of our economies for oil and natural gas. At just about the same time as that, a group came to my office to brief me on the Automotive X PRIZE. You may have noticed how much harder people will work for a prize than they will for money. Just note the Olympics and what these athletes will do for a prize. So I am very, very supportive of this fantastic idea. I bought the first Prius in Maryland, I bought the first Prius in Congress, and I want to buy the winning car from this competition. 
   I have here a note from Donald Foley, who is the executive director of the Automotive X PRIZE, and he has noted my desire to buy that winning car. So hopefully we will be driving that to the Congress in not too long. 
   Thank you very much for yielding.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, in a former life, I received a doctorate in human physiology, I taught medical school, and I had a course in advanced embryology. With this background, my heart just bleeds when these diabetic kids come through my office every year, because I know there are options which have not been discussed on this floor; and I have two charts here which point that out. 
   The assumption is being made by many people that you need to kill embryos to get embryonic stem cells. That just isn't true, and these slides point that out. Let me go quickly to the slide that is really important here. 
   These are several different ways of getting embryonic-like stem cells, and I want to go to the embryonic biopsy. This was a procedure that I had suggested to the President before he came out with his executive order. The medical community has now run past us with this, Mr. Speaker. What I suggested was you ought to be able to take a cell from an early embryo without harming an embryo, because I knew that God or nature, whoever you think does it, does that every day. When identical twins are produced, half the cells are taken away, and each half produces a perfectly normal baby. 
   What the medical community is now doing is what is called preimplantation genetic diagnosis. They take a cell from an early embryo and they do a genetic diagnosis on it. If there is no genetic defect, they implant the remaining cells. It may be six or seven cells. Sometimes they get an extra cell. And more than 2,000 times now we have had perfectly normal babies born. 
   There are hundreds of clinics in this country doing that. The procedure started in England. All that we need is that second cell that they inadvertently get when they do the biopsy for preimplantation genetic diagnosis. Two professionals have now developed stem cell lines, Verlinski and Lanz have developed stem cell lines from single embryonic cells. 
   Mr. Speaker, we can have embryonic stem cell research without killing embryos. I think that is the real message. 
   Every professional I know believes there ought to be more potential medical applications from embryonic stem cells and adult stem cells. Many of my colleagues are opposing embryonic stem cell research needlessly because they believe you have to kill embryos to get embryonic stem cells. You don't have to kill embryos. The medical community is doing this every day by the thousands in preimplantation genetic diagnosis with in vitro fertilization. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - May 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, several days ago I came into the office early and I found at my door the usual package of newspapers and I opened them up and was placing them out on the table, and I noticed the headlines. And this is every paper that was at my door that morning. There were four newspapers and there were three inside-the-Beltway newspapers intended primarily for those interested in the Congress. I want to go through the headlines in every one of those papers. 
   Here is the Baltimore Sun, and they had two headlines above the fold both related to energy, ``Demand Eats Supply,'' and ``Energy Bill Aids Payouts on Rise.'' 
   Then I went to the Washington Times and there was a headline, ``Bush Lays Gas Blame on Congress.'' 
   And then I went to the Wall Street Journal and the Wall Street Journal headline was ``Grain Companies' Profits Soar as Global Food Crisis Mounts.'' 
   Then I turned to the U.S. News part of the Wall Street Journal and what do you know, above the fold there were two more headlines, ``Bush Prods Lawmakers on Economy and Energy Prices,'' and ``GOP Senators Urge Halt to Oil Reserve.'' 
   Then I noted the three papers that are kind of inside the Beltway papers: Roll Call, ``Alexander Eyes Energy Agenda''; The Hill, ``Politics At the Pump''; and Politico had ``Gas Prices Fuel Effort to Jam the GOP.'' 
   So every one of these seven papers that were on my doorstep that morning had headlines talking about energy. Now I noted just a few days before that  there was a New York Times op-ed piece by Thomas Friedman. This is what he says about energy. Here is what is scary. Our problem is so much worse than you think. We have no energy strategy. If you are going to use tax policy to shape energy strategy, then you want to raise taxes on the things that you want to discourage--gasoline consumption and gas-guzzling cars--and you want to lower taxes on the things you want to encourage--new renewable energy technologies. We are doing just the opposite, he says. 
   The gas holiday proposal is a perfect example of what energy expert Peter Schwartz of Global Business Network describes as the true American energy policy today, and I quote, ``Maximize demand, minimize supply, and buy the rest from the people who hate us most.'' 
   This is not an energy policy. This is money laundering, he says. We borrow money from China and ship it to Saudi Arabia and take a little cut for ourselves as it goes through our gas tanks. No, no, no, we will just get the money by taxing Big Oil. Even if you could do that, what a terrible way to spend precious tax dollars, he says. 
   For almost a year now, Congress has been bickering over whether and how to renew the investment tax credit to stimulate investment in solar energy and the production of tax credit to encourage investment in wind energy. And a little later I will go over this bill that has already passed the Senate, and we have introduced it in the House now. 
   The Democrats wanted the wind and solar credits to be paid for by taking away tax credits from the oil industry. President Bush said he would veto that. Neither side would back down. Stalemate, he says. 
   I first came to this floor to talk about this subject more than 3 years ago. It was, I believe, the 14th day of March in 2005. I noted then that we have known, we had known at that time for 25 years that we would be facing this crisis. Now it is 28 years. We have known for 28 years that we would be facing this crisis. I will present the evidence for that in just a moment, and I think the evidence is absolutely unassailable. Anybody who looked at the evidence would have to conclude that there was a reasonable, indeed probably a high probability that we would be here today with oil at over $100 a barrel. 
   This all started in 1956 on March 8 when an oil geologist from the Shell Oil Company gave a speech that I think may shortly be recognized as the most important speech given in the last century. He gave that speech in San Antonio, Texas, to an audience of people interested in oil. What he told them was at that time absolutely audacious and incredible. He told them in just 14 years the United States is going to reach its maximum oil production and no matter what you do, after that the production of oil will decrease year by year. 
   At that time the United States was the largest producer of oil in the world, the largest consumer of oil in the world, and I think the largest exporter of oil in the world. So this was absolutely audacious to suggest that the king of oil in just 14 short years would reach its maximum ability to produce oil. 
   He was a pariah for a number of years, and then in 1970, when right on schedule as this chart shows, when right on schedule the United States reached its maximum oil production, he became a legend in his own time. He made his prediction in 1956. You see how much oil we were producing then. In 1970 we were producing a lot more oil. And right on schedule, just as he predicted, the United States after that produced less and less oil each year, in spite of several things, Mr. Speaker. In spite of finding a lot of oil in Alaska. And notice just a little blip down the slide of what is called Hubbert's peak as a result of this enormous find in Alaska. I have been to Prudhoe Bay, a 4-foot pipeline through which for a number of years a full 25 percent of all our domestic production flowed. And then a big find some years later in the Gulf of Mexico. I remember the hype over that find. You see the yellow there, just a blip in the slide down the other side of Hubbert's peak. 
   So not only did we find a lot of oil that M. King Hubbert had not included in his prediction, his prediction included only the lower 48 States, in spite of this large find of oil in Alaska and the large find of oil in the Gulf of Mexico, and in spite of increasing amounts of natural gas liquids, we today produce about half of the oil that we did in 1970. 
   Another thing that we have done, we have drilled more oil wells than all of the rest of the world put together. In spite of doing that, in spite of ever-better techniques for finding oil, computer modeling and 3-D seismic, in spite of ever-better techniques for getting the oil, enhanced oil recovery, nothing we have done has proved M. King Hubbert a liar. He said we would peak in oil production in 1970, and we did. And we have been sliding down the other side of Hubbert's peak ever since. 
   In 1979 he predicted using the same analytical techniques which aren't all that hard to understand. He noted that in an individual oil field, that the production of the field increased and increased and increased until it reached a maximum which was when about half the oil was exhausted. After that, the last half which reasonably would be more difficult to get, was more difficult to get and production was slower. And so he rationalized that if he could add up all of the little oil fields in the United States and make a good prediction as to how many more we would find, he could have one big bell curve which is basically the shape of that curve, and he could then predict when the United States would reach its maximum oil production. He was right on target. 
   Using that same technique, he predicted that the world would be peaking in oil production about now. Now I say that we have known this for 28 years. I say that because by 1980 it was very obvious that M. King Hubbert was right about the United States. We were already well over the peak and sliding down the other side of what is called Hubbert's peak. What did we do? We have done as a world, as a country, absolutely nothing to prepare for the inevitability that M. King Hubbert would probably be right about the world because he was right about the United States. 
   Now as the next chart shows, the two entities which track oil production and consumption, and it is essentially the same thing, very little oil is stored in the world compared to the amount that we use, that is the EIA, the Energy Information Administration, a part of our Department of Defense, and the IEA, the International Energy Association, both of those track very well the production of oil. And you can see they have the production of oil about flat for the last 3 years. 
   Now when I first came here, and I think that was 43 times ago, I think this is the 44th time I have been to the floor, when I was here in 2005, oil was about $50 a barrel, a little over $50 a barrel. Using the predictions of M. King Hubbert, I with some confidence have been saying now for these 43 times, 44 times including tonight, that we were going to get here, that the world was going to reach maximum oil production.     
   And we ought to have been preparing for this. And since we hadn't been preparing in the past, we ought to start preparing for this with some realistic measures. 
   Notice what happened to the price of oil. Of course, when you have a static production and an increasing demand, the supply/demand mechanism which controls the pricing of almost everything in our world, caused an increase in the price of oil. Now, it would be well off the top of our chart here. We're now at $123, $124 a barrel. That's well off the top of the chart here. As far as I know, these lines are extending out flat. There is no increase in oil production. 
   The next chart, this chart shows the discoveries of oil through the years, and it shows the use of oil through the years. Now, if you had only one chart that you could look at, this chart, I think, conveys more information than any other. And even without M. King Hubbert's predictions, I think that you would conclude that we're probably going to max out in oil production about now. Because look what we have here. 
   We have discoveries back through the 1940s and the 1950s, and boy did we discover it in the 1960s and the 1970s, and then another surge around the 1980s. But down, down, down since then. And  that's in spite of ever better technologies for discovering oil, ever more interest in discovering oil. It's been down, down, down. 
   Now, obviously, if you add up all of these bars, you will know the total amount of oil that we have discovered. That is frequently done by simply drawing a smooth curve over those bars. That tells you that the area under the curve represents the total volume. I say that because there's another curve here which is very important, and that is the consumption curve. 
   Notice that early on in the 1960s, boy, in the 1970s, we were finding enormously more oil than we were using. So every year we had bigger and bigger reserves behind us that we could rely on. And then about 1980, when the discovery of oil was down, and we were using more and more oil, ever since about 1980, we have been using more oil than we found. Well, we could do that because we had extra back here that we hadn't used. So we simply could borrow from this and pump it here and fill that volume with it. 
   I want to point out something about this curve which is really very interesting. You notice how steep the curve is here. This is up through the Carter years. Now, had we continued on that trajectory, we would now be well off the top of this chart. 
   The oil price spike hikes of the 1970s, and the recession that occurred then, notice the little dip there, were really blessings in disguise. There's an old saying that it's an ill wind that blows no good. 
   I lived through all of those gas lines, even, odd, the end of your license plate, the day you could fill up your tank. 
   But look what happened as a result of that wake up call. Boy, are we more efficient now than we were then. Look at the slope of this curve as compared to the slope of this curve. And we're getting even more and more efficient. This is an exponential rise. And it would be off the top of the chart. 
   As a matter of fact, there was a stunning statistic during the Carter years. Every decade the world used as much oil as it had used in all of previous history. Now, that's stunning, because what that says is that when you used half of it, only 10 years will remain. We're very much better off. 
   By the way, oil's not going to run out in 10 years or 20 or 30. We have another 150 years of oil, gas and coal, but at ever decreasing amounts, ever more difficult to find, ever more expensive. 
   When we talk about peak oil and the energy crisis, that does not mean we're running out of oil. What that means is we're running out of our ability to produce oil as fast as we would like to use it. 
   Well, what will the future look like? 
   Now, I said if you had only this chart to look at you could make some really educated guesses about what the future is going to look like, because you cannot pump what you have not found. And unless you think that there's going to be some startling new discoveries in the future, it's been down, down, down, for 30 years. Unless you think there's going to be some startling new discoveries in the future, these are the reserves that we have to fill in the volume here about what this chart suggests we might find. 
   Now, it won't be smooth like that. It will be up and down, but it might be reasonably that kind of a slope. 
   So I think that even without the predictions of M. King Hubbert, just looking at this oil chart, it would be very easy to conclude that we probably, very soon, if not now, would have reached the maximum production of oil. 
   The next chart looks at some of the geopolitical consequences of this. This is the world according to oil. This is what the geography of the world would look like if the size of the country was related to how much oil it had. Some really interesting things here. 
   Saudi Arabia dominates the landscape. They should. They have 22 percent of all the known reserves of oil in all the world. And notice, their near neighbors, Iraq, Kuwait, Iran, second, third and fourth. United Arab Emirates. You almost have to have a magnifying glass to find them on the map, and there they are. Look how huge they are in terms of the amount of oil they have. And then Northern Africa. 
   Here we are, the United States. The yellow means that we're a big user of oil. Our small size means we don't have much. And notice the people from whom we get most of our oil. Canada is our Number 1 supplier. They have much less oil than we. But they don't have very many people so they can ship oil to us. 
   Mexico, until about a month ago, was our Number 2 supplier. But their largest oil field, which is the second largest oil field in the world, Cantoral, is now in steep decline, about 8, 10 percent a year. Now our Number 2 supplier is Saudi Arabia. 
   Mexico. But notice that Mexico and Canada together have little more oil than we have. And we have only 2 percent of the known reserves in the world. Maybe they have 3 percent. Maybe all three of us together here have 4, 5, 6 percent of the oil in the world. That's all. 
   Even more alarming, notice the size of China and India. Here they are. 1.3 billion people and 1.1 billion people, more than a third of the world's population, and they have less oil than the United States has. 
   When you go to China, and I did with 8 other Members of Congress about 16 months ago, and they begin their discussion of energy by talking about post-oil. So China knows that they have to transition. 
   The next chart is kind of a bar chart which shows the same thing, pretty much, that we saw in that chart. If you take the 10 largest owners of oil in the world, 98 percent of all that oil belongs to countries rather than companies. Saudi Aramco, National Iranian, Iraqi National Oil, Kuwait Petroleum Company and so forth. Only 2 percent by Lukoil, that's a big Russian oil company. 
   Now, if you look at the 10 producers of oil, 78 percent of the first 10 producers of oil, all that oil comes from countries, not companies, again, these nationally owned oil companies. And only 22 percent comes from the big three. 
   There's obviously a lot of angst over the high price of oil, and people are looking around for who to blame. And there are a lot of people who blame the big oil companies. They're gouging us. 
   There are a lot of people who blame the OPEC countries, and many of them are here; because they say they're holding back on oil to drive the prices up. Probably neither one of those things are true. There is pretty good evidence that OPEC is pumping oil about as fast as it can pump oil. 
   Russia, not a part of OPEC, but a big producer, noted several weeks ago that they had reached their maximum oil production. 
   Saudi Arabia, just last week admitted to maximizing out on oil production. They're trying to bring a new field on-line, the Kuras field. It's a very technical field. It may get 1.2 million barrels a day. That's a lot. But they may get nothing. They've spent billions of dollars drilling wells. They're going to have to flood the field with seawater under pressure because that oil is so tightly held in the rocks that it won't flow. And if they do is just right they can get the oil to flow in large amounts, and they may get for quite a number of years, 1.2 million barrels a day. But that's kind of iffy. 
   But even if they get that and get it on-line, it will barely maintain their present oil production. It will not increase their oil production. 
   The next chart speaks again to this geopolitical situation. This is the chart which shows who is buying oil where in the world. And you see these symbols for Russia. Here they tried to buy UniCal in our country. They have bought a lot of the production from Canada, South America, the Middle East, Northern Africa. You see their symbol all over the map. 
   Why are they buying oil? Today it doesn't make any difference who owns the oil. The person who comes, the country, the company that comes with the dollars buys the oil. It doesn't make a bit of difference. 
   We own only 2 percent of the oil in the world, and we use 25 percent of the oil in the world because we come with our dollars and we buy the oil from those who have it for sale. 
   So why would China be buying oil? You can't get inside their head, but you can make some prognostications from what you see. You go to China, by the way, and they talk about post-oil. There will be a post-oil world. 
   It's not forever. It is finite. It will run out. And China is talking about post-oil.  
   But while we still have some oil, they have a policy, a 5-point plan, and everybody knows it over there, all of their leaders know it, not just the people in energy and oil and coal know it. Everybody over there talked to us about the 5-point plan. 
   Number 1 is conservation. That's where whatever country, and this is where it's got to begin. We have now run out of time. We have run out of excess energy. We can buy some time and free up some energy if we have an aggressive program in conservation. 
   Number 2 and Number 3 were alternatives, and as many of those as you can from your own country. 
   Number 4 may surprise you. Be kind to the environment. They know they're awful polluters, but they have 900 million people in rural areas that, through the miracle of communications, know the benefits of industrialization. And I think they see their empire unraveling the way the Soviet empire unraveled if they cannot meet the demands of these people. 
   So why are they buying all the oil? At the same time they're buying this, oh by the way, they're not just buying oil; they're buying good will. Would you like a soccer stadium? Is it hospitals you need, roads? So in addition to buying the oil they're buying goodwill. 
   At the same time that they're doing this, they are aggressively building a blue water navy. They launched many times, I don't know the exact number, maybe 10, submarines last year. We launched one. 
   Now, their submarines aren't ours yet, but I would note that they are graduating six times as many engineers as we graduate, and about half of our engineers are Chinese students. 
   I was stunned the other day when I learned that in our patent office more than 60 percent of the applications for a new patent come from Asia. 
   They are very aggressively building a blue water navy. Might the day come that they would say well, gee, I'm sorry, guys, but we have 1.3 billion people, the oil is ours and we can't share it. 
   Today there's no alternative, the way the marketplace works but that you're going to share your oil. 
   The next chart, and I've already mentioned some of these numbers. We have only 2 percent of the world's reserves of oil. By the way, these numbers encouraged 30 of our prominent leaders, Jim Woolsey and McFarland and Boyden Gray and 27 others, several retired 4-Star admirals and generals to write a letter to the President saying, Mr. President, the fact that we have only 2 percent of the world's reserves of oil, and we use 25 percent of the world's oil and import almost two-thirds of what we use is really a totally unacceptable national security risk.     
   We've got to do something about that. That little 2 percent we have, by the way, from that we produce 8 percent of the world's oil. So we're good at pumping oil. 
   As I mentioned earlier, we have drilled more oil wells than all the rest of the world put together. So it is not surprising that we're pumping down our oil reserves four times faster than the rest of the world. We have a bit less than 5 percent than the world's population, and we use 25 percent of the worlds' oil. 
   I'm going to next look at some of the things that I personally have been doing and some of the things that Congress has been doing, and then I am going to recognize my very good friend, Zach Wamp from Tennessee, who has come with us to share some of this time with us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - May 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Thank you very much for your observations. 
   We're doing a number of things in the Congress. It would have been a whole lot better if we were doing them 25, 28 years ago, by the way, because what we're doing in the Congress will not be adequate to meet the challenge. But it's a start. It's what we can do. 
   I have a book here that came across my desk: ``A Very Unpleasant Truth ..... Peak Oil Production and Its Global Consequences'' by two very credentialed authors, both Ph.Ds from one of our large oil companies. And they say in this book, The first and most important thing that needs to be done is to educate and convince the public that a problem even exists; and that's what I have been trying to do for more than 3 years now. The public must accept, they say, that the current system based on cheap oil is not sustainable and cannot be kept intact regardless of what politicians promise.     
   Let me mention quickly four things that I'm personally involved with and personally doing. 
   We have a new bill just introduced last evening. It is a companion bill to S. 2821 that has enormous support that I will mention very briefly. Our bill is H.R. 5984. 
   In one of his columns last week, New York Times' Thomas Friedman decried the stalemate that has so far prevented the extension of renewable energy tax  credits that would otherwise expire this year. I noted that in some opening comments this evening, and this was one of the things that inspired us to pick up this Senate bill and to file it in the House. 
   This bill does several things: Extension and modification of the renewable energy production tax credit; extension and modification of the solar energy and fuel cell investment tax credit; clean renewable energy bonds; extension of the special rule to implement FERC restructuring policy; extension and modification of the credit for energy efficiency improvements to existing homes; extension of the tax credit for energy efficient new homes; extension of the energy efficient commercial buildings deduction; modification and extension of the energy efficient appliance credit. 
   So it's a broad-based bill. It has passed the Senate by 88-8. It has 43 cosponsors in the Senate. We have 35 original cosponsors in the House and two more have been added to that today. 
   This bill has gotten a lot of support from the community out there. The Christian Science Monitor has an article on it supporting the bill. ``Big Oil's Friends in the Senate'' is an editorial by New York Times on this subject, and here I have a list and I want to just mention a few of those because it's so important. It notes how broad the support is for this bill. 
   Here are letters from the National Association of Manufacturers, the United States Chamber of Commerce, the Retail Industry Leaders Association. And then I have here a letter signed by more than three pages of double column organizations, more than three pages, double column, and let me just mention a few of them. 
   American Council on Renewable Energy, Alliance to Save Energy, Alternative Fuels Renewable Energies Council, American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, American Solar Energy Society, American Wind Energy Association, the Audubon Society, Babcock and Brown, Bloom Energy, Business Council for Sustainable Energy, California Energy Commission, Center for Energy and Environmental Sustainability at James Madison University. Constellation Energy, well-known locally. They provide much electricity for the Baltimore area. The Dow Chemical Company, Duke Energy, Earthjustice, Edison Electric Institute. 
   And so you notice the broad, broad spectrum of support for this bill from a lot of those who are concerned about the environment and those who are concerned about the simple fact that we have got to have more energy. 
   Environmental Defense Fund, Exelon Corporation, GE Energy, Geothermal Energy Association. Greenpeace? The Home Depot, Honeywell, Idaho Rural Council, John Deere Renewables, JP Morgan, League of Conservation Voters, Lowe's Companies, Michigan Alliance of Cooperatives. National Association of Home Builders, a very conservative organization to which I belonged in another life. National Association of State Energy Officials, National Electrical Manufacturers Association. 
   I'm reading, by the way, about one-tenth of all of those who have signed on. 
   National Wildlife Federation, Natural Resources Defense Council, Northeast Public Power Association. 
   Oh, my, more pages, one-and-a-half more pages. I won't bother reading those, but it's the same kinds of broad, broad spectrum. 
   Like Suntech, I'll mention Suntech, second largest solar cell manufacturing company in the world. Six years ago it didn't exist. I was privileged to have lunch with the young Chinese man who started it just 6 years ago, and now, it's number two in all of the world. 
   Another thing that I am doing personally, we are having a SMART Green Showcase in conjunction with the SMART Organization. This will be on July 18 in Frederick, Maryland, and we're going to showcase there a number of smart energy solutions for many of the problems that homeowners and small businesses have. It has its own Web site, www.smartgreenconference.com. So you can find more information on it there. 
   I have a bill, the Self-Powered Farm Energy Bill. We're going to give a prize to the first farm that can demonstrate that they're capable of independence from off-site sources of energy, fuel, and raw materials; a community resource for food and energy. They will have food and energy left over to provide for the community or raw materials for food. It minimizes or eliminates ongoing operating expenditures to off-site entities for fossil fuel-derived energy; employs sustainable farming practices for long-term soil fertility; and produces at least two times as much energy, including fuel or raw materials for fuel, as it consumes. 
   Now, if we can't do this, we're in trouble. If our farms can't be energy independent, and I think they can, and we have a prize for that farm that will get there first. 
   The next chart speaks to the fourth thing that I'm personally involved in. This is the DRIVE Act. The Dependence Reduction through Innovation in Vehicles and Energy is what DRIVE stands for. The purpose of the bill is to achieve liquid fuel independence through alternative energy sources. Some of the key points include incentives for the auto industry to produce flexible fuel, hybrid and electric vehicles; the conversion of gas stations to fuel stations, where consumers can plug into an electric car to fill up on ethanol; as well as tax credits for Americans who buy flexible fuel cars. 
   It costs so little, maybe less than $100 to build a flex-fuel car. Every car in Brazil is flex-fuel. They could be, I think should be in our country, and we have a bill, H.R. 670, on flex-fuel vehicles, incenting the industry to move to flex-fuel vehicles. When we have the new fuels we'll be ready for it. If we haven't done that, there will only be a small percentage of the cars that could use the new fuels. 
   In addition to these things, I'm working with my colleague, Democratic Congressman Mark Udall from Colorado, to distribute a new report about green collar jobs from energy efficiency and renewable energy technology. This industry is small but it is really growing. The report is called Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency: Economic Drivers for the 21st Century. It's available for free. You can download it at www.ases.org. 
   Solar power grew worldwide by an average of 18 percent between 1980 and 2000. It's accelerated dramatically in recent years, growing by close to 50 percent annually since 2002. In spite of that dramatic growth, it still produces a tiny, tiny percentage of our electricity. That's because we get electricity production in huge, huge amounts, primarily from coal, 50 percent in our country, and from nuclear power and hydro power. Those are the three largest sources of energy for coal. 
   From a significantly larger base, wind power has also been growing rapidly. U.S. wind power capacity 
   surged 45 percent in 2007. So lots of new jobs are being created. We need to create more. 
   I want to spend the remaining time, and it won't be very long, looking at the alternatives that we have and what reasonable expectations should be. And I need to come back, and we'll spend a full hour just looking at reasonable expectations. 
   I'd like to point to two expectations that did not turn out to be reasonable. It kind of represented the irrational exuberance that Alan Greenspan spoke about in the market. 
   The first of these was hydrogen, not hydrogen from renewables as the chart indicates here but hydrogen from any source. Remember, we were going to have a hydrogen economy? The President mentioned this in his State of the Union. I think we spent $1.5 billion on it. You don't hear anybody talk about hydrogen today, and that's because I think we've finally figured out that hydrogen is not an energy source. It is simply a way to carry energy from one place to another place. 
   There is no hydrogen out there free for the having. You have got to produce it by using more energy than you will get out of hydrogen. That is the immutable second law of thermodynamics. If you can repeal that law, you can repeal the law of gravity, and then we have a whole different world, don't we? So hydrogen is rarely, rarely mentioned now because that bubble broke. 
   Another bubble that broke very recently was the corn ethanol bubble. High, high hopes were held out for corn ethanol, very unrealistic expectations. I did some computations with Dr. John  Darnell, the most broadly knowledgeable scientist that I know and I'm privileged to have on my staff. We did some back-of-the-envelope computations several years ago and convinced ourselves that ethanol from corn could never make any meaningful contribution to freeing us from our need for oil. 
   The National Academy of Sciences has now said that if we use all of our corn for ethanol, every bit of it, and discounted it for fossil fuel input, which is huge, at least 80 percent--and you're just kidding yourself if you're burning fossil fuel in another form and pretending that you're displacing gasoline. If we used all of our corn for ethanol, discounted it for fossil fuel input, it would displace 2.4 percent of our gasoline. They noted that if you tuned up your car and put air in the tires you could save as much gas. 
   Well, now there's a backlash over corn ethanol. A U.N. official said that what we had done was a crime against humanity. There are other factors involved. One of the major ones is the very high cost of oil as energy, but certainly, our diversion of corn to ethanol is one of the factors that has increased the cost of food around the world. And I was shocked at how quickly these food shortages developed, and just a couple of weeks ago, you remember reading about food riots in a number of the countries in the world. 
   There is a new bubble that I think will break, and that is the cellulosic ethanol bubble. We will get something from cellulosic ethanol. 
   Oh, the National Academy of Sciences has also looked at soybeans for soy diesel, and they said that if we use all of our soybeans for soy diesel, no soybean oil for our cooking, no soy protein for feeding our cattle and so forth, if we use it all for soy diesel, it would displace 2.9 percent of our diesel. 
   Now, I'm going to make an observation, just an intuitive observation, the kind of thing that I think a rational person might conclude. We grow our corn and our soybeans on our best land. It's level, it's fertile. We dump all sorts of fertilizers and herbicides and insecticides on it to nurse out these huge, huge yields of corn, 250-bushels per acre. 
   Now, we are going to get this cellulosic ethanol from our wasteland. It's not good for growing corn or soybeans or wheat or any of these things. And just intuitively, I wonder how much more energy we could get from our wasteland, which isn't good for growing any of these crops, and we're going to get it without fertilizer, how much energy can we get from that sustainably? Well, we can get a lot the first year and the second year by simply going in and in effect raping the soil, taking off all the organic material. 
   But to at least some measure and in some soils to a very large measure, this year's weeds and grasses grow because last year's weeds and grasses died and are fertilizing them. It's a recycling of the nutrients that is really, really apparent in a tropical rain forest. If you take the tropical rain forest vegetation away in many places, you leave what's called laterite soils which grow very little because all of the nutrients were in circulation, in growth, death, decay, rebirth and growing again. It's all recycling. 
   So we're going to get some energy from cellulosic ethanol, but it is not a silver bullet. It will not solve our problem. 
   Here I have a look at all of the different places from which we might get energy, and I'm going to put the last chart up now because our time is just about out. I want to come back and I want to spend the full hour talking about realistic expectations from tar sands, more potential oil than all the oil in the world. Oil shales, again, in our country, more potential oil than all of the oil deposits in the world.     
   How much can we realistically expect to get from them? I'll make a very quick observation. We are very much like the young couple that has gotten a big inheritance from their grandparents and they're living lavishly. Eighty-five percent of the money they spend comes from their grandparents' inheritance and only 15 percent from what they earn. And it's going to run out before they die, so obviously they've got to do something, they've got to earn more or spend less. 
   That's precisely where we are. Eighty-five percent of all of the energy we use comes from fossil fuels. It will run out. It is not forever. And so this 15 percent is going to have to grow. And about half of that is nuclear, the rest of it is a broad spectrum of potential renewables here. That's going to have to grow. 
   By the way, I think that this is an enormously exciting challenge. I am excited about this. America is the most creative, innovative society in the world. With proper understanding and proper leadership, we really can do miracles. We put a man on the moon in less than a decade. 
   I think we need a program that has a total commitment of World War II. I lived through that war, I know what it was. Daylight savings time, victory guard, nobody told you you had to do it, that's just what you did because you were a patriotic American. 
   We need the technology focus of putting a man on the moon--and many of us remember that exciting decade--and we need the urgency of the Manhattan Project. I think once again America has become a major manufacturing and exporting country, manufacturing and exporting to the rest of the world the technologies for sustainable renewables. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think this is a challenging opportunity, but it will not be easy. And we have very unrealistic expectations about what we can get from many of these things. Two of the bubbles have already broken. I will predict the next bubble that will break is the cellulosic ethanol bubble. We will get something from that; it will not be the huge amounts that people expect that we will get from that. So I look forward to coming back and talking for another hour about realistic expectations: What can we realistically get from these renewable sources? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I need to begin today with an apology first. I need to apologize to my very good friend and chairman of our subcommittee on Armed Services, GENE TAYLOR, and I need to apologize to Ron O'Rourke and Eric Labbs who are testifying in a very important subcommittee hearing that I was not able to attend between the two series of votes this morning because I had orthostatic hypotension and I could not maintain a standing hydrostatic column. What that means, Mr. Speaker, if I stood up too long I would faint because I was suffering through flu. So I want to apologize to Congressman Taylor and Ron O'Rourke and Eric Labbs and assure them that I was, indeed, sick. I was in the attending physician's office, and I want to thank the attending physician and his assistants there. They really do take good care of us. 
   I guess I ought to thank my parents, too, for the good genes they gave me because the recuperative powers of the human body are just amazing. Because of the great genes I got from my parents, I am really blessed to have more recuperative power than the average person, for which I am very thankful.  
   I wouldn't be here except, for me, this is a very important day. I think it is a very important day for the country and the world. You see, 2 months from today will be the 51st anniversary of what I think will be regarded very shortly as the most insightful speech given in the last century. This was a speech given by Hyman Rickover to a group of physicians in St. Paul, Minnesota. 
   I will have a quote or two from his speech in our little discussion today, and I encourage you to do a Google search for Hyman Rickover and energy and it will pop up, and I think you will agree it is the most prophetic, insightful speech you have read. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think this is probably the 40th time I have come here, because this is the third anniversary of the first time I came here, which was on March 14, exactly 3 years ago. Between then and now, I was very privileged to have the widow of Hyman Rickover join me. She sat in the gallery up there where I, for an hour, read from her husband's speech and commented on it because it was a very historic speech. 
   Well, this is a very special day for me today because I have a very good friend, Kjell Aleklett. He is from the Uppsala University in Sweden, and he is the president of ASPO, the Association for the Study of Peak Oil. They have been around for a long time, and if the world had been listening to them, we would not have $110 oil today. And I think you will agree with me as we go through the charts, that would be correct. He sits in the gallery, and thank you, sir, very much for joining us. 
   The first chart I have is a chart that I have used every one of the 40 times that I have been to the floor. I just wanted to start with this chart because apparently a lot of people have trouble understanding it. I just don't know what is hard to understand about this chart. This seems to me to be a very simple chart. 
   You need to go back to 1956 to kind of set this in context. In 1956 on the 8th day of March, just a few days ago was that anniversary, a speech was given that I think will be the most important speech given in the last century of Hyman Rickover. It was very insightful. I think the speech given to M. King Hubbert to those assembled oil engineers and oil company people in San Antonio, Texas, will be judged to be the most important speech given in the last century. 
   At that time, the United States was king of oil. We were producing, using, and exporting more oil than anybody in the world. In that climate, M. King Hubbert got up and told the assembled experts there that in just about 14 years, no matter what they did, the United States would reach its maximum production of oil. And after that, there was going to be less and less and less, no matter what they did. 
   Here is a chart which shows that, and I don't know what is so hard to understand about this chart. It has been out there for a very long time. The data has been out for a very long time. You could have constructed this chart very easily many years ago. 
   What M. King Hubbert predicted was that the lower 48 States, the rest of the United States plus Texas, and Texas was pretty big, that they would peak in 1970, and after that, no matter what we did, the production would fall off. Indeed it did. Now, we found a lot of oil in Alaska and we found a fair amount of oil in the Gulf of Mexico. Those fabled discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico hardly made a blip in the slide down the other side of Hubbert's peak. I have been to Alaska to the beginning of that 4-foot pipeline through which, for a number of years, 25 percent of our domestic production of oil flowed. And that made a little blip in the downward slide on the other side of Hubbert's peak, but it didn't reverse the slide except for momentarily. 
   Now, the reason I ask what is so hard to understand about this chart is that the same man who predicted this in 1979, I believe, predicted that the world would be peaking in oil production about now. I think the obvious question that any rational person would ask themselves is: If M. King Hubbert was right about the United States, which certainly has to be a microcosm of the world, why shouldn't he be right about the world? If, in fact, by 1980 it was very clear that he was right, that we have peaked in 1970, that was 28 years ago, shouldn't the United States and the world have been doing something about the inevitability that the world would probably follow this same kind of a pattern, that the world would reach its maximum production of oil, and no matter what they did after that, it would tail off. 
   Let me tell you what we did in our country to try to make M. King Hubbert a liar. That is not why they did it, but that is the effect of it. We have drilled more oil wells in our country than all of the rest of the world put together. In spite of having 530,000 producing oil wells, today we produce a bit more than half the oil that we produced in 1970, in spite of the fact that we have large amounts of oil from natural gas liquids, from oil from Alaska, and from oil from the Gulf of Mexico. 
   I have used this chart 40 times here, and what is so hard to understand about this chart? 
   In 1956, we were here, and he predicted in 1970 we would be here. And then he predicted, in spite of enhanced oil recovery, in spite of the best discovery techniques and modeling in the world, in spite of drilling more oil wells than the rest of the world put together, we are still producing in the lower 48 way less than half of the oil than we produced in 1970. What is so hard to understand about this? 
   And the same man who predicted that predicted that the world would be peaking in oil production about now. Well, you know, it is hard for me to understand why with this knowledge that the world wouldn't have said, gee, we really ought to be doing something because this oil is not going to last forever. 
   Mr. Speaker, it was probably 40 years ago, maybe it is because of the scientist in me, that I started asking myself that question. I looked around the world and there was rock and stones and trees and grass, and I said, you know, oil has to be finite. There has to be a finite amount, and how much is there. And when should I start being concerned about the amount of oil that is there. Is it a year, 10 years, 100 years? Maybe it is a thousand years. But at some point I knew we would be where we are today. 
   Again, Mr. Speaker, what is so hard to understand about this chart? And why has there been denial worldwide, just forget it, don't think about it, ignore it? Ignoring it won't make it go away. 
   The next chart is a statement by Condoleezza Rice, and this comment was mirrored in the President's State of the Union. ``We do have to do something about the energy problem. I can tell you that nothing has really taken me aback more as Secretary of State than the way that the politics of energy is, I will use the word 'warping' diplomacy around the world. We have simply got to do something about the warping now of diplomatic effort by the all-out rush for energy supply.'' That was April 5, 2006, about 2 years ago. What have we done since then? This was a recognition of a real problem. 
   If you look at what this Congress has done in the last 2 years, what this administration has done in the last 2 years, what the world has done in the last 2 years, what have we done in response to this recognition by the Secretary of State that this is a huge problem? 
   Well, one country has been doing something. China has been doing something. China has been going all over the world, and you can see by the symbol here for China, they have been going all over the world. They wanted one in the United States. They almost bought Unocal. Remember the furor over that. I wasn't that disturbed because the reality is in today's world, it doesn't make any difference who owns the oil because almost all of the oil is owned by countries, most of them, but he who comes with the dollars gets the oil. So whether they own Unocal I didn't think made all that much difference, but symbolically it made a difference. And fortunately, they didn't buy it. 
   The next chart is a really interesting one. I guess if there were only two charts to look at, this would be one of them. And several charts from now I will point to the second one that I think is the most instructive. These are the two most instructive charts that I have seen.  
   This is what the world would look like if the size of the country were relative to how much oil reserves the country had. That is a different looking world, isn't it. 
   Here is our hemisphere over here, kind of an anemic hemisphere. Venezuela has way more than half of all of the oil in all of our hemisphere. But look at where most of the oil is. The land mass of Saudi Arabia would be 22 percent of the land mass of the world if the size of Saudi Arabia was relative to the amount of oil that it held. 
   Look at little Kuwait. You look at Iraq, way down to the east is what looks like it ought to be a province of Iraq, and that is what Saddam Hussein tried to do in the Gulf War. They have the second, third, or fourth depending on what you believe about the numbers they give us for their reserves. Iraq is huge. And Iran is big. The little United Arab Emirates, you almost have to have a magnifying glass to find them on the globe, but they have quite a bit of oil there. 
   Look at where we are over here. We have only 2 percent of the known reserves of oil, and we get most of our oil from Canada and Mexico. Notice that Canada and Mexico, each of them has even less oil than we have.     
   So how come we're getting oil from Canada and Mexico? Well, there aren't very many people in Canada so they can ship us surplus oil. And although there are a lot of people in Mexico, they're too poor, most of them, to use much oil, so they can ship oil to us. 
   But notice how Venezuela just dominates the map here in our hemisphere. Look at Russia there. They're really a huge country. They go through 11 time zones, they go nearly halfway around the world. They're not so big relative to oil as they are relative to actual land mass, but they're still a pretty big country. They're a major shipper. Russia has many fewer people than we, and they still are not using near as much oil per person as we, so they are in the happy circumstance of being able to be a major shipper of oil. 
   What I really want you to look at for a moment here is China and India. Together, they have, what, about as much oil as we, which is 2 percent of the known reserves. China has 1.3 billion people. India has, I guess, a bit more than a billion people now. So between them they have, what, about a third of the world's population and 2 percent of the world's oil. 
   And China's doing something about that by going about and buying reserves all over the world. Why would they do that? Since in today's world, it doesn't make any difference who owns the oil, he who comes with the dollars, buys the oil. It's impossible to get inside their head to know why they're doing this, but one might note that simultaneously with buying up all this oil, they're doing two things: one is, they're pleading for international cooperation. 
   I led a codel of nine Members to China a year ago this last Christmas/New Year's break. And we had a chance to spend several days with the Chinese talking about energy. And they began their discussion of energy by talking about post-oil. You know, it's hard for us in this country to think much beyond the next quarterly report if you're in business, or much beyond the next election if you're in Congress. But the Chinese are thinking generations and centuries ahead, and there will be a post-oil world. And they have a five point plan. It ought to be the world's five point plan. 
   The first point in this plan is conservation. With oil at $110 a barrel, we have run out of excess oil to invest in alternatives, and we've run out of time. And you could free up some oil and buy some time if you had a really aggressive, worldwide conservation effort. 
   Their second and third points were, get energy from alternatives, and as many of those as you can from your own country. 
   The fourth one is one that may surprise you, and that is, be kind to the environment while you do that because now they're the world's biggest polluter and they know that. But they have 1.3 billion people. They have 900,000 people in what they call rural areas, which, through the miracle of information technology, know how the rest of the world lives, and they are clamoring for the benefits of the industrialized society. And I think that China is concerned that if they're not able to provide those benefits, that their empire may unravel the way the Soviet Empire unraveled. 
   The fifth point in that five-point plan is a really significant one, international cooperation. They know that if only one country does it, that you really could have kind of a Jevons paradox, that is, the harder you work the worse it gets. 
   Let me give you an example from our country. I suppose that we, alone, I don't think that we have any alternative, Mr. Speaker, we use a fourth of the world's oil. We're a fourth of the world's economy. We are a role model. We're a leader, whether we like it or not, and people are watching us. 
   But suppose that we decided that what we were going to do was to have an aggressive conservation program. What that would do is to drop the price of oil and gas and coal because energy is fungible and those prices will move somewhat together. And then that would make oil even cheaper for the Chinese who are already aggressively competing with us economically and militarily. So it would make them easier to compete with us economically and militarily. So maybe from a national security perspective one might argue that, gee, let's pig it all up as soon as possible so there won't be any for the Chinese or anybody else. Of course that's a grossly irresponsible, irrational response. 
   But this points out Jevons paradox, that our unique local situation could in fact be made worse if we didn't seek the cooperation of the world, and if we unilaterally, and I don't think we have any choice, Mr. Speaker, because we are a world leader, and the world is headed for some really rough bumps if we don't do something. So I think that we've got to move and hope that the world will follow. But if the world didn't follow, it would simply make more oil available at cheaper prices to our adversaries, both economic and military adversaries. This is known as Jevons paradox; the harder you work the worse the problem gets. 
   Well, this is one thing that China is doing is pleading for international cooperation. But at the same time they do that, and I can't get inside their head to know why they're building, very aggressively building a blue water navy, but one might suspect that if you had all that oil around the world and you envisioned that a time might come when you would have to say, gee guys, I'm sorry, but we have 1.3 billion people and the oil is ours and we can no longer share it, the only way to make that happen is to have a blue water navy big enough to protect the sea lanes. At the moment we have the only blue water navy that's large enough to do that. 
   The next chart is one that inspired, oh, maybe nearly 3 years ago now, 30 of our prominent Americans. Jim Woolsey and McFarlane and Boyden Gray and 27 others, retired admirals and generals, sent a letter to the President saying, Mr. President, the fact that we have only 2 percent of the reserves of oil in the world and we use 25 percent of the world's oil, and we import almost two-thirds of what we use is really a totally unacceptable national security risk. We've really got to do something about that. That is true, of course. That is a totally unacceptable national security risk. And the President has mentioned that risk in his State of the Union messages. That recognition, in my view, has not been followed by appropriate actions on either the part of the administration or of the Congress. 
   A couple of other interesting numbers here. We really represent less than 5 percent of the world's population. We are one person in 22 in the world, and we use a fourth of the world's energy, and that statistic is not lost on the rest of the world. As oil becomes critically short, and the prices rise, they will be looking more and more at this relatively little land mass across the Atlantic and Pacific that's using a fourth of all of the world's energy. 
   This 8 percent is really interesting. We have only 2 percent of the world's reserves, and I mentioned that we had 530,000 functioning oil-producing oil wells, so we are pumping our oil down about four times faster than the average in the world. 
   This group of people, and they're a sizeable number of them and I commend them, who are really concerned about the price of oil and peak oil and  its availability and who has the oil and who uses the oil, these people are concerned about our national security. And their solution to that problem, of course, is to use less fossil fuels and move to other sources of energy, like nuclear and wind and solar. These are all electric, by the way, and liquid fuels are going to be the real challenge. And there it really is a challenge. There is no silver bullet. It's going to be a little of this and a little of that. 
   And at the end of the day, I was privileged to spend a week in South America with the chairman of our Agriculture Committee. And he believes at the end of the day that the world will be able to produce about a third as much liquid fuels as we are now using, and I will tell you that that's probably okay. I think that we could live very comfortably with a third of the liquid fuels that we now have with appropriate conservation and efficiency. So this is one group that has common cause with those of us who are concerned that the oil just isn't going to be there. 
   There's a second group that has a common cause that I wanted to mention because what I think these three groups ought to do is stop criticizing each other's premise and simply lock arms and march on because all three want to do exactly the same thing. They want to move away from fossil fuels to alternatives. 
   This third group are those that believe that our excessive use of fossil fuels and releasing the CO  
   2 that was bound there in these ancient subtropical seas a very long time ago that produced our oil and gas, and it wasn't seas, but the furnace and stuff that produce the coal. They are now releasing that CO 
   2, and this is a greenhouse gas and it's trapping the infrared radiations that come back from the Earth after the broad number of bandwidth that come in from the sun heats up the Earth and it radiates back just in the infrared, and these are called greenhouse gases because they do for our world what the glass in the greenhouse does for the greenhouse temperature or the glass in your car does for your car which may be 140 degrees on an 80-degree day this summer when you open the door. 
   Now, what the climate change global warming group wants to do is exactly the same thing. Their solution is the same solution as those who are concerned about national security and those who are concerned about the fact that it just isn't going to be there. They want to use less fossil fuels and move to renewables. 
   And the question I ask is, Mr. Speaker, why do we criticize each other's premise? Since we all have a similar path to achieving our goal, why don't we just lock arms and expend our energies addressing the challenge by moving away from fossil fuels to sustainable renewables? 
   The next chart, I wish this could go back the 8,000 years that Hyman Rickover referred to, but it goes back only about 400 years. But it wouldn't matter because if you extend it this way, it's going to be the same. The amount of energy used by mankind is going to be so small that it hardly shows above the baseline. This shows the revolution, the Industrial Revolution. The brown line is wood, the black line, appropriately, is coal, and the red is gas and oil. Wow, look what happened. When we found gas and oil and we learned how to use the incredible amounts and quality of energy and gas and oil, the use of energy just exploded. And with it, by the way, the world's population. If I had a population graph, it follows that same curve. It goes from a half a billion or so down here to roughly, what, 7 billion now, approaching 7 billion people in the world. 
   Notice what happened in about the 1970s there. And notice the amount of trouble we would have been in if that hadn't happened. We had the embargo-inspired oil price spike heights in the 1970s and there was a worldwide recession. And notice the dip in gas and oil consumption. And then when we recovered from that recession, the slope, and that will show up better on some future graphs where the abscissa is spread out, the slope is very much less than it is here. 
   The slope there, if we'd continued on that slope today, we would be above the chart there, wouldn't we? The statistics there were just stunning. Every decade the Earth used as much oil as had been used in all of previous history. What that meant, of course, was that had we continued on that path, and we'd used half of all the oil that we could ever recover, we would have had 10 years remaining. 
   Hyman Rickover, in his speech, and in just a moment I'll have a quote from that speech. I just want to note something here before we put his quote up. He recognized that there would be an age of oil. That age of oil started back here, what, in the late 1800s. They were about 100 years into the age of oil and gas and coal because you can move this back a little bit for fossil fuel energy, about 100 years into the fossil fuel era because oil and gas have so dominated that you could refer to it as the age of oil. And he noted that there would be an age of oil like there was a stone age. 
   Now, I know the cute remark is the stone age didn't end because they ran out of stone; and, therefore, the age of oil won't end because we ran out of oil. That gets a smile and an applause line. But I think if you believe that we can just go through business as usual and we're going to come out okay, that you probably also believe that you'll solve your personal economic problems by winning the lottery, because I think the odds of that happening are about the same.     
   Well, this is the first part of the age of oil. As you will see from M. King Hubbert's predictions, the other side of this should be a mirror and come down like this so we know pretty much how long the age of oil will be. We are about 150 years into this Golden Age, and in another 150, it will be gone. 
   Now, the quote from Hyman Rickover. This is his speech given the 14th day of May, 1957, to a group of physicians in St. Paul, Minnesota: There is nothing man can do to rebuild exhausted fossil fuel reserves that were created by solar energy 500 million years ago and took eons to grow to their present volume. In the face of the basic fact that fossil fuels are finite, the exact length of time these reserves will last is important in only one respect: the longer they last, the more time we have to invent ways of living off renewable or substitute energy sources and to adjust our economy to the vast changes which we can expect from such a shift. 
   Fossil fuels resemble capital in the bank. I love this statement. It so correctly describes the collective attitude of the world. A prudent and responsible parent will use his capital sparingly in order to pass on to his children as much as possible of his inheritance. A selfish and irresponsible parent will squander it in riotous living, or wanton drilling and consumption of oil might be substituted there, and care not one wit how his offspring will fare. 
   I have 10 kids, 16 grandkids, and 2 great-grandkids. We are going to bequeath them a horrendous debt, not with my votes if you will check the record, but they're going to get the debt anyway. 
   I tell those who would like me to vote to drill in ANWR and offshore that wouldn't it be nice if I left them a little oil. By the way, I will vote to drill there when I have a commitment that they're going to use all of the energy and the money that they get from pumping those reserves to develop alternatives. 
   The next chart, and this may be my last chart because the hydrostatic column that I mentioned I had difficulty maintaining is giving me some problems. This is the second one. There were two charts that were very insightful, and this is the second of those charts. This shows the discoveries, and notice that those discoveries occurred a while ago. 
   Here we are over here. Huge discoveries behind us, very few currently in spite of lots of money spent, lots of drilling and so forth. 
   This solid black curve is the same curve we saw before. This is the use of energy. A system was compressed and the ordinate expanded, and here's a very sharp curve. Here is the recovery with much more efficiency after that recession in the 1970s as the result of the Arab oil embargo. 
   Now, where will we go from here? Unless we find a lot more oil, we have these reserves that we can pump in the future. If we pump them very aggressively and bleed them down quickly, we may get more for the moment and less  for the future. And you can vary the slide down the other side of the world's Hubbert's peak there by some of the things you do with aggressive drilling and enhanced oil recovery. But remember, you cannot pump what you have not found. 
   I want to look at one more chart, and then I will have to yield back my time. 
   I have been saying for 3 years now that we were about to reach peak oil, and I started saying that back here 3 years ago. And at just about that time, the two big agencies in the world that track the use of oil have found that it's flat. One is the IEA, the International Energy Agency. This is a group that tracks what is happening in Iran, among other things. The other is the EIA, the Energy Information Administration, a part of the Department of Energy. Both of those have the production of oil flat for about the last 3 years. And while that's been flat, the price of oil has gone up, as it should with a flat production, and increased demand has gone up from $55 a barrel to $110 a barrel. You can see that spike here. 
   Mr. Speaker, I'm very sorry that the flu and its effect on my ability to maintain a hydrostatic column means that I am going to have to yield back my time and sit down. 
   But I want to reemphasize how important this subject is. There is a solution, by the way. That solution will require the total commitment of World War II, the technology focus of putting a man on the Moon, and the urgency of the Manhattan Project. 
   I'm excited about this. It's exhilarating. It's a huge challenge. There's no exhilaration like the exhilaration of overcoming a huge challenge. 
   Mr. Speaker, at this time, I yield back. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (CIVIL LIBERTIES -- (House of Representatives - January 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, there is a question that often comes to my mind. I wonder to how many Americans this comes to their mind. 
   We are a great superpower, the undisputed economic and military superpower of this world. Have you ever asked yourself why? What is so special about us that we have this privileged position in the world? 
   We no longer have the most oil in the world or gold or silver or diamonds. We no longer have the best work ethic in the world. We no longer have the most respect for technical education. We no longer have the most respect for the nuclear family. Nearly half of our children are born out of wedlock. What makes us so special? 
   I have asked myself that question a lot of times, and I think there are two reasons. There may be others, but I have noted for myself two reasons I think. One of those is the enormous respect that this country, that this government, has for our civil liberties. There is no other Constitution, there is no other government, that has this great respect for civil liberties. 
   The Constitution written in 1787 was hardly dry before our Founding Fathers wondered if it was clear that most of the rights, most of the power, should belong to the people, and so they wrote what we call the Bill of Rights, those first 10 amendments which delineated very clearly that most of the rights belonged to the people. 
   Civil liberties are always a casualty of war. Abraham Lincoln, my favorite President, violated our civil liberties in the civil war. In World War II, we interred the Japanese Americans. I served here with Norm Mineta, former Secretary of Transportation. Japanese Americans. He told me, ``ROSCOE, as a little boy, I remember holding my parents' hands when they ushered us into that concentration camp in Idaho.'' 
   Those wars were ended and we got back the habeas corpus that was denied during the civil war, and the Japanese Americans were released from those interment camps. 
   We are now engaged in a great war, a war like no other that we have ever fought. I am concerned, Mr. Speaker, that in our zeal to catch terrorists that we may threaten the civil liberties that I think are largely responsible for making us this great, free Nation. 
   I think these civil liberties have established a climate and milieu in which creativity and entrepreneurship can flourish, and I think we put at risk who we are in our superior position in the world if we put at risk these civil liberties. We need to be very careful, and actions like the PATRIOT Act, warrantless wiretaps, detention without either charging or giving counsel to the accused, we must be very careful, Mr. Speaker, that we do not put at risk those things that have made us such a great Nation. But this is a subject for another day. 
   A second reason, which is the subject for today that I believe that we are such a great, free Nation, undisputed superpower in the world, I believe that our Founding Fathers understood that God sat with them at the table when they wrote the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. 
   I have here in the front of the little Constitution that I carry a statement from Alexander Hamilton one year before they wrote the Declaration of Independence, and I think that it kind of epitomizes the belief that most of our Founding Fathers had. 
   The sacred rights of mankind are not to be rummaged for among old parchments or musty records. They are written as with a sunbeam in the whole volume of human nature by the hands of the divinity itself and can never be erased or obscured by mortal power.  
   Is there any better evidence that our Founding Fathers believed that God sat with them at the table when they wrote these great documents? 
   I would like to read something from the Declaration of Independence, that first document, in 1776. ``We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.'' 
   Five times in the Declaration of Independence God is mentioned. Do you think, Mr. Speaker, that our courts may declare the Declaration of Independence unconstitutional because it mentions God? 
   As I mentioned earlier, the Constitution, which was the fulfillment of the promise made in the Declaration of Independence, written, by the way, 11 years later in 1787, this Constitution sought to assure the permanence of these God-given rights noted in the Declaration of Independence to the citizens of this new country. They did that by delineating a very limited Federal Government. If the Federal Government is limited, obviously the powers, the rights that it does not have belong to the people, but the ink was hardly dry on this document before they wondered was it really clear, would people really understand from this Constitution. 
   It is certainly implicit there in the fact that our Federal Government is given very few powers. You would need never believe they meant that today, Mr. Speaker, by the size of our Federal Government. We really need to take a look at that because we are doing a lot of things that I think that if our Founding Fathers were resurrected would be quite surprised that we thought their Constitution permitted the Federal Government to do. 
   They were concerned that maybe it was not clear that these precious rights given to us by God were to be secured to the people and not to the government, and so they started 10 amendments through the process of two-thirds of the House, two-thirds of the Senate and three-fourths of the State legislatures, and 10 of them made it through, and we know them as the Bill of Rights. 
   The rights of the people are so frequently mentioned in these Bill of Rights, which is why we call them the Bill of Rights. The first amendment, the right of the people peaceably to assemble. The second amendment, the right of the people to keep and bear arms. The third amendment does not mention rights, but it certainly delineates the right of the people not to have the military quartered in their houses except in time of war. The fourth amendment begins with the words the right of the people. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would like to note that this does not say the rights of the citizens. It says the rights of the people, and our Founding Fathers did differentiate in this great Constitution between people and citizens because when they are delineating the requirements for the presidency or other offices they note the requirement for citizenship. 
   The fifth amendment, which delineates a lot of rights, begins with the delineation of a right which is frequently denied to us by our governments, both local, State and Federal. I think it is the most violated part of our Constitution. The last part of the fifth amendment, a lot of rights in there, the right of the people not to have to testify against themselves, the right of the people not to have to stand trial twice for the same offense, but this last right, little noted, violated every day by all levels of government, nor shall private property be taken for public use without just compensation.     
   We need to take a serious look at that. If we can start denying one right of the people in this great Constitution, arguing that times have changed, are not all of these rights at risk? 
   The sixth amendment, enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial; the seventh amendment, the right by trial; and then the eighth amendment, the people have the right not to have excessive fines or cruel and unusual punishment. 
   The ninth amendment, the lost amendment, the amendment that almost nobody reads, the amendment that I think very few people understand, it is a very simple one. The enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people. 
   This is written in old English and legalese. What does it mean? What it means is that just because a right is not given to the people specifically in the Constitution, don't disparage that right to the people, to whom that right belongs. 
   Fundamentally, all rights belong to the people. They choose, they choose to give certain power, certain rights to their government. 
   Because when there are a lot of people who need government, the government must have some rights. Our Founding Fathers wanted our government to have little power and few rights. 
   The tenth amendment, the power is not delegated. They might just as well have said, rights not delegated to the United States by the Constitution nor prohibited by the States or reserved to the States respectively or to the people. 
   If you were writing this in everyday English, and not using legalese, you would say, if you cannot find it in article 1, section 8, the Federal Government cannot do it. 
   There is a whole lot of what we do that I can't find in article 1, section 8. I would submit that we have amended our Constitution 27 times. If we think it is outdated, we ought to be doing something that this Constitution prohibits us from doing, then, sir, we need to amend the Constitution. We don't need to ignore it. 
   Essential to our understanding of our origins is an understanding of what our government really is. I am afraid, sir, that too few understand this. 
   When Benjamin Franklin came out of the Constitutional Convention in 1797, as the story goes, he was asked by a woman who was sitting there, Mr. Franklin, what have you given us? This quote is in the front of many copies of the Constitution. His answer was, a republic, madam, if you can keep it, a republic. 
   But I thought we have a democracy. I don't know if we cite that Pledge of Allegiance just from rote and never think about what it says. But you remember those words in there, the republic for which it stands, not the democracy, but the republic for which it stands. What is the difference between a republic and a democracy and why did Benjamin Franklin make a point of telling this lady, a republic, madam, if you can keep it? 
   Let me give you a couple of examples of a democracy that will help you understand why he didn't say that they had given us a democracy. An example of a democracy is two wolves and a lamb voting on what they are going to have for dinner. You may smile a little because you know that if two wolves and a lamb are voting on what you are going to have for dinner, it is not going to be clover. 
   Another sample, and this is a very sad example, but if you think about it, this is really an apt example of a democracy, and that is a lynch mob. Because, clearly, in a lynch mob the will of the majority is being expressed, and that is what people say democracy is, that the majority rules. 
   So what is a republic? There is an incident in our history that helps me understand the difference between a republic and a democracy, and this happened during the Truman administration. The steel mills were going on strike, our economy was already in trouble, and it was going to be in bigger trouble if that strike occurred. Then we did some manufacturing, and we made some steel, and it mattered. Today, it probably wouldn't matter, because so little manufacturing in steel is made here, but it mattered then. 
   Harry Truman in his take-charge style issued an executive order, one of only two, by the way, that the Supreme Court has set aside. What he said in that executive order was that he nationalized the steel mills that made the steel mill workers civil servants, employees of the government. As employees to the government, they couldn't strike. 
   That was a very popular action that had very high approval from the American people. In a democracy, that  would have been just fine. But the Supreme Court met in an emergency session and, in effect, what they said, Mr. President, no matter how popular that is, you cannot do it because it violates the Constitution. 
   You see, the fundamental difference between a democracy and a republic is a rule of law. In a democracy, what the majority wants prevails. In a republic, it is a rule of law that prevails. Now, we can change that law. We have changed it 27 times. But it takes a very deliberative process, two-thirds of the House, two-thirds of the Senate, and then three-fourths of the State legislature. This is a long-time process. It gives a lot of time for reflection. 
   The last time we tried to amend the Constitution it didn't quite make it, the Equal Rights Amendment, you remember. Nobody denies that women should have equal rights with men. But what that amendment says, that you couldn't differentiate between men and women. If you had a draft, you would have to draft women. 
   We can change this Constitution, but it takes a very deliberative process and a super majority vote. 
   Then the last half of that statement, if you can keep it, I wonder what was in Benjamin Franklin's head, in his mind. Was he concerned about threats from outside our country? We were a long ocean away with sailing ships from any potential enemy. I doubt that his concern was a threat from without. I think that he was more concerned about a threat from within, a republic, madam, if you can keep it. 
   This needs a longer discussion, but that, too, is a discussion for another day. To really understand who we are, we need to go back to our origins and how our Founding Fathers came here. Most of them in our early days came from the British Isles and the European continent, and they came here to escape two tyrannies. One was the tyranny of the crown, and the other was the tyranny of the church. 
   Most of them came from countries where there was a king or an emperor who incredibly, from our perspective, claimed and was granted divine rights. What that says was the rights came from God to the king or the emperor, and he would give what rights he wished to his people. That is incomprehensible to us that for hundreds of years people could have lived under that kind of government. 
   Well, those who chose not to live that way came to this country. When they wrote the Bill of Rights, their concern about the tyranny of the crown gave rise to the second amendment. 
   Now, you may ask people what the second amendment is, and almost all of them will tell you that it says the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed. That is about half of the second amendment. 
   Let me read the first part that puts that second part in perspective. A well-regulated militia, that is every citizen with a gun, that is the militia, a well-regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free state. I asked some of my friends, who wants to limit the right to keep and bear arms? What do you think that means? 
   Remember, they came here to escape the tyranny of the crown. If we have a citizenry who have the right to keep and bear arms, never, ever could a small oligarchy at the seat of government take over and oppress the people. 
   The second tyranny that they came here to escape was the tyranny of the church. In England, it was the Episcopal church. On the continent, it was the Roman church. In England, it was a state church, supported by the state, empowered by the state. On the continent, the Roman Catholic Church was the state church for many states, supported by the state and powered by the state, and these religions could and did oppress other religions. 
   Our Founding Fathers were so repulsed by this that when they came here in old Virginia they would not let Roman Catholics vote. But, to their great credit, when it came time to write these precious 10 amendments, they recognized that is not really what they came here to do. So they wrote the establishment clause of the first amendment, and it is very clear. I have no idea why people have trouble understanding it. 
   It says, Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion. Don't make any law establishing a state religion. 
   Then they went on to say, and let everybody worship as they please, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. That is a really misunderstood establishment clause. 
   Early history books will present a very different picture of our origins than that which really existed. If you go back to a history book of 50 years ago, it will be unrecognizable as compared to the history book of today. The history books of today have been bled dry of any reference to our Christian heritage. 
   I would like to pause here for just a moment to note that I am going to quote from a lot of our Founding Fathers, and they are going to use the word ``Christian.'' That was the lexicon of the day. If they were here today, they would be saying Judeo-Christian. Every time I read the word ``Christian,'' please translate that Judeo-Christian, because that is the context in which they used that word. 
   Current history books, and indeed our culture, contains three great lies. The first of these lies is that our Founding Fathers were atheist and deist. Now an atheist is someone who does not believe in God. Deist, God, atheist, the alpha primitive, don't believe in God. A deist is someone who believes there is a God. They believe he created the world, but don't bother trying to talk to him or pray to him, because when he created the world he also put in place several laws, and your destiny will be determined by how you relate yourself to your laws. Although they believed in a supreme being, they didn't believe he was a personal God or made any difference whether you tried to talk to him or not, and he certainly was not going to talk to you. 
   The second great lie is that our Founding Fathers did not want to establish a Christian Nation. 
   The third great lie is that they established a wall of separation between the church and the state. 
   Our national freedom was not free. It was enormously costly. Five of the 55 signers of the Declaration of Independence were captured and executed by the British, nine of them died on the battlefield of the Revolutionary War, and another dozen lost their homes and their possessions and their fortunes to British occupation. Our birth as a Nation was not cheap for these men. What beliefs and convictions motivated them to do what they did?     
   Of these three great lies, that is the wall of separation, it is very easy to dispense with a third of those because the words ``separation,'' ``church,'' and ``State'' never exist in relationship to each other in either our Constitution or the amendments. 
   But they do occur in one constitution. Interestingly, that is the constitution of the old Soviet empire, the constitution of the United Soviet Socialist Republic. Article 124 says: ``In order to ensure to citizens freedom of conscience, the church in the USSR is separated from the state and the schools from the church.'' 
   Now, many people would like to interpret the establishment clause of our first amendment as if it was written in these words that are found only in the constitution of the old Soviet Union. 
   To refute the first two lies, that is, that our Founding Fathers were athiests and deists and that they did not mean to establish a Christian nation, I want to do four things. First of all, I want to let the Founding Fathers speak for themselves. I am going to cite only a few quotes from the many, many that you could find. Then we are going to take a look at what the courts said and you will be astounded at what our courts said in our early years. And then we will take a look at what the Congress did. The institution permits me to speak here in the well of the Congress. And then we will take a look at our schools. 
   Patrick Henry was the firebrand of the Revolution. Every school child knows his words: ``Give me liberty or give me death.'' But I will wager, Mr. Speaker, that you will not find in any current textbooks the circumstances in which he uttered these words: They were in a church in Richmond, Virginia, St. John's Church in Richmond Virginia March 23, 1775, and this is what he said: ``An appeal to arms and the God of Hosts is all that is left us. But we shall not fight our battle alone.  There is a just God that presides over the destinies of nations. The battle, sir, is not to the strong. Is life so dear or peace so sweet as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God. I know not what course others may take, but as for me, give me liberty or give me death.'' 
   Did your children ever bring home to you this full quote from Patrick Henry? 
   Was Patrick Henry a Christian? The following year, 1776, he wrote this: ``It cannot be emphasized too clearly and too often that this great Nation was founded, not by religionists, but by Christians,'' or in today's vernacular, Judeo Christians, ``not on religion, but on the gospel of Jesus Christ. For that reason alone, peoples of other faiths have been afforded'' ..... ``freedom of worship here.'' 
   Benjamin Franklin was said to be a deist; that is, he believed there was a God who created the Earth but then he just let the Earth and its inhabitants determine their destiny by how they related themselves to laws that he had established. Let me read to you something that Benjamin Franklin said. This was in 1787. We had a deadlocked convention. 
   It wasn't certain that after 11 years, we were going to be able to write a Constitution that would protect all of the rights, big States and little States and people, that we wanted to protect. And this is what he said: ``In the days of our conquest with Great Britain when we were sensible of danger, we had daily prayer in this room for divine protection. Our prayers, sir, were heard, and they were graciously answered. All of us who were engaged in the struggle must have observed frequent instances of superintending providence in our favor. To that kind providence we owe this happy opportunity to establish our Nation. And have we now forgotten that powerful friend? Do we imagine we no longer need his assistance?'' 
   And then I love this quote: ``I have lived, sir, a long time.'' I believe he was 81 years old, the oldest member of the Constitutional Convention, revered Governor of Pennsylvania. ``I have lived, sir, a long time, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth, that God governs in the affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, it is probable that a new nation cannot rise without his aid. We have been assured, sir, in the sacred writings that except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that built it. I therefore beg leave to move that henceforth prayers imploring the assistance of heaven and its blessings on our deliberations be held in this assembly every morning before we proceed to any business.'' 
   That, Mr. Speaker, established a precedent that we honored this morning when we opened this day and this Congress with prayer. We have a chaplain; so does the Senate. There is a chaplain of every religious persuasion, or many, including Muslims, who serve our military. As a matter of fact, Mr. Speaker, the only place today we cannot offer a prayer is in our schools. I have often asked myself the rationality of this. 
   Thomas Jefferson was also said to be a deist. Let me read what he says and see if you believe he was a deist: ``I am a real Christian, that is to say a disciple of the doctrines of Jesus. I have little doubt that our whole country will soon be rallied to the unity of our creator and, I hope, to the pure doctrine of Jesus also.'' 
   On slavery Jefferson wrote: ``Almighty God has created men's minds free. Commerce between master and slave is despotism. I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just; that his justice cannot sleep forever.'' 
   George Washington, the founder our country, a deeply religious person. We think of him often as commander of the Army. This is his quote: ``It is impossible to govern the world without God and the Bible.'' Boy, are we trying to do that? ``Of all the dispositions and habits that lead to political prosperity, our religion and morality are the indispensable supporters. Let us with caution indulge the supposition,'' that is, the idea, ``that morality can be maintained without religion. Reason and experience both forbid us to expect our national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious 
   principle.'' 
   And in his prayer book, George Washington wrote this: ``Oh, eternal and everlasting God, direct my thoughts, words, and work. Wash away my sins in the emaculate blood of the lamb and purge my heart by the Holy Spirit. Daily, frame me more and more in the likeness of they son, Jesus Christ, that living in thy fear, and dying in thy favor, I may in thy appointed time obtain the resurrection of the justified unto eternal life. Bless, O Lord, the whole race of mankind and let the world be filled with the knowledge of thee and thy son, Jesus Christ.'' 
   John Adams, our second President and President of the American Bible Society, this is what he said: ``We have no government armed with the power capable of contending with human passions, unbridled by morality and true religion.'' Mr. Speaker, I wonder if maybe this can be a factor in our problems in Iraq. ``Our Constitution was made only for a moral and religious people. It is wholly inadequate to the government of any other.'' This by the second President of the United States. 
   John Jay, our first Supreme Court Justice, said ``Providence has given to our people the choice of their rulers, and it is the duty as well as the privilege and interest of our Christian Nation to select and prefer Christians for their rulers.'' This from John Jay, the first Supreme Court Justice. 
   John Quincy Adams, also, like his father, President of the American Bible Society. As a matter of fact, I think it was he who said that he valued the presidency of the American Bible Society more than he valued the presidency of the United States. This is what he said: ``The highest glory of the American Revolution was this: It connected in one indissoluble bond the principles of civil government with the principles of Christianity. From the day of the Declaration, the day'' the Founding Fathers ``were bound by the Laws of God, which they all acknowledged as their rules of conduct.'' 
   And later Calvin Coolidge, ``Silent Cal.'' An interesting story is told of him. He was a man of few words. It was hard to get him to talk. He was sitting at dinner with a lady who said, ``I have a wager that I will get you to say three words tonight.'' And the only words he uttered that whole evening were ``You lose.'' 
   Calvin Coolidge said this: ``America seeks no empires built on blood and forces. She cherishes no purpose save to merit the favor of Almighty God.'' He later wrote: ``The foundations of our society and our government rest so much on the teachings of the Bible that it would be difficult to support them if faith in these teaching would cease to be practically universal in our country.'' 
   President Coolidge, they have ceased to be practically universal in our country. What now? 
   I think, Mr. Speaker, you see from these quotes from just a few of our Founding Fathers, and there are dozens of others I could have brought, that certainly our Founding Fathers were deeply religious people. They were not deists and athiests. 
   Now let us move to the Supreme Court. Some of these quotes will shock you. The People versus Ruggles. He had publicly slandered the Bible, and somehow this came to the Supreme Court in 1811. ``You have attacked the Bible.'' This is what the Supreme Court said: ``You have attacked the Bible. In attacking the Bible, you have attacked Jesus Christ. In attacking Jesus Christ, you have attacked the roots of our Nation.'' 
   Did they intend this to be a Godless Nation? 
   ``Whatever strikes at the root of Christianity manifests itself in the dissolving of our civil government. This was the Supreme Court. And then the same Court a little later, in 1885, in Vida versus Gerrard, they were using the Bible in teaching one of our schools, and somehow that got to the Supreme Court. And this is what they said: ``Why not use the Bible, especially the New Testament? It should be read and taught as the divine revelation in the schools. Where can the purist principles of morality be learned so clearly and so perfectly as from the New Testament?'' Can you imagine anything like that coming from our Court today? 
   And then in 1892, and this was in a suit involving the Church of the Holy Spirit in which they contended Christianity was not the faith of the people,  and this is what the Supreme Court said in 1892: ``Our laws and our institutions must necessarily be based upon and embody the teachings of the redeemer of mankind. It is impossible to demand that they should be otherwise; and in this sense and to this extent, our civilization and our institutions are emphatically Christian. No purpose of action against our religion can be imputed to any legislation, State or national, because this is a religious people.'' This is the Supreme Court. ``This is historically true. From the discovery of this continent to this present hour, there is a single voice making this affirmation.'' And then they go on to cite 87 different legal precedents to affirm that America was formed as a Christian Nation by believing Christians. 
   And then in 1947, our Court did an about face, 180 degrees, repudiating everything they have they had done for 160 years. And you will see no Supreme Court reference today going back beyond 1947 because if you went back beyond that, every one would be consistent with the quotes that I have read here. 
   We are having trouble understanding that what our Founding Fathers meant in this great establishment clause in the first amendment was to ensure that there would be freedom of religion. We are ever more interpreting this as requiring freedom from religion. Our Founding Fathers would be astounded if they could be resurrected and see how we have interpreted their Constitution.     
   In the early 1850s, Humanism and Darwinism was sweeping our country. And there was the assertion that America was not a Christian Nation. After a year's study, now we are turning to the Congress. After a year's study, this is what the Senate Judiciary Committee said in its final report in March 27, 1854. 
   ``The First Amendment clause speaks against an establishment of religion. The founding fathers intended by this amendment to prohibit an establishment of religion, such as the Church of England presented or anything like it. But they had no fear or jealousy of religion itself, nor did they wish to see us an illreligious people.'' And I love the language that our founding fathers used, so poetic. 
   ``They did not intend to spread over the public authorities and the whole public action of the Nation the dead and revolting spectacle of atheistic apathy. Had the people during the revolution had a suspicion of any attempt to war against Christianity, that revolution would have been strangled in its cradle.'' 
   At the time of the adoption of the Constitution and the amendments, the universal sentiment was that Christianity should be encouraged, not just any one sect or denomination. The object was not to substitute Judaism, or Islam or infidelity, but to prevent rivalry among the Christian denominations to the exclusion of others. Christianity must be considered as the foundation on which the whole structure rests. 
   ``Laws will not have permanence or power without the sanction of religious sentiment, without the firm belief that there is power above us that will reward our virtues and punish our vices.'' This is what our Congress said. 
   The Continental Congress bought 20,000 copies of the Bible to distribute to its new citizens. And for the first 100 years of our country, every year our Congress voted monies to send missionaries to the American Indians. 
   Continuing the Senate Judiciary Committee's 1854 reading. ``In this age, there can be no substitute for Christianity. By its general principles, the Christian faith is the great conserving element on which we must rely for the purity and permanence of our free institutions.'' 
   That was the religion of our founding fathers, or the Republic, and they expected it to remain the religion of their descendents. Well, there is little question, little question how the Congress felt, and the courts. 
   Let us turn now to our schools. Oh, by the way. The same Congress in 1854 passed this resolution. Can you imagine this today? ``The Congress of the United States recommends and approves the Holy Bible for use in our schools.'' 
   The New England Primer used for 200 years. This is how they taught the alphabet. A. A wise son makes a glad father but a foolish son is heaviness to his mother. 
   B. Better is little with the fear of the Lord than abundance apart from him. C. Come unto Christ, all you who are weary and heavily laden. D. Do not do the abominable thing, which I hate, sayeth the Lord. E. Except a man be born again he cannot see the Kingdom of God. Clearly religion was important in our early schools. 
   The McGuffey Reader, used for a hundred years. A few years ago they brought it back with the hope that if kids used that, they could read, because what they were doing today they were not learning to read. 
   This is what McGuffey said. ``The Christian religion is the religion of our country. From it are derived our notions of the character of God, on the great moral Governor of universe. On its doctrines are founded the peculiarities of our free institutions. From no source has the author drawn more conspicuously than from the sacred Scriptures. For all of those extracts from the Bible, I make no apology.'' 
   Of the first 108 universities in our country, 106 were distinctly religious. Harvard University, the first university. This was in their student handbook. Let me read it. ``Let every student be plainly instructed and earnestly pressed to consider well, the main end of his life and studies is, to know God and Jesus Christ, which is eternal life, John 17:3; and therefore to lay Jesus Christ as the only foundation of all sound knowledge and learning.'' 
   For more than 100 years, more than 50 percent of all Harvard's graduates were pastors. We now have exposed these three great lies from our founding fathers, from our courts, from our Congress, from our schools. Our founding fathers have all spoken. Clearly we were founded by religious people intending to be a religious Nation. 
   What have we reaped in the way we have changed? America 100 years ago had the highest literacy rate of any nation. Today we spend more on education than any nation in the world. And yet since 1987 we have graduated more than one million high school students who could not even read their diploma. 
   We have spent more money than any other Nation in the industrialized world to educate our children, and yet SAT scores fell for 24 straight years before finally leveling off at the bottom, where they still are compared with others in the world in the 1990s. 
   In a 1960 survey 53 percent of America's teenagers had never kissed. 57 percent said they had never necked, that is kissing and hugging, and 92 percent of teenagers in America said they were virgins in 1960. 
   Before that, more than a decade before that, I was getting my doctorate at the University of Maryland. The girls dorm was right down the hill from Moral Hall where I did my work. The Dean of Women would not let the girls go barefoot because she said that bare feet were too sexy. 
   There are far too many coed dorms and coed rooms in the University of Maryland today. By 1990, just 30 years later, 75 percent of American high school students are sexually active, by 18. In the next 5 years, we spent $4 billion to educate them on how to be immoral, to trumpeting the solutions of safe sex, and it worked. 
   One in five teenagers in America today lose their virginity before their 13th birthday. 19 percent of 
   America's teenagers say they have had more than four sexual partners before graduation. The result: Every day 2,700 students get pregnant, 1,100 get abortions, 1,200 give birth. Every day another 900 contract a sexually transmitted disease, many incurable. 
   AIDS infections among high school students climbed 700 percent between 1990 and 1995. We have 3.3 million problem drinkers in our high school campuses, over half a million alcoholics, and in any given weekend in America, 30 percent of the student population may spend some time drunk. 
   A few years ago a young woman in a high school in Oklahoma wrote this poem as a new school prayer. ``Now I sit me down in school where praying is against the rule, for this great Nation under God finds mention of him very odd. 
   ``The Scripture now the class recites, it violates the Bill of Rights. And any  time my head I bow, becomes a Federal matter now. Our hair can be purple, orange or green, that is no offense, it is a freedom scene. The law is specific, the law is precise, only prayers spoken out loud are a serious vice. 
   ``For praying in a public hall might offend someone with no faith at all, in silence alone we must meditate, God's name is prohibited by the State. We are allowed to cuss and dress like freaks, and pierce our noses, tongues and cheeks, they have outlawed guns but first the Bible. 
   ``To quote the Good Book makes me liable. We can elect a pregnant senior queen, and the unwed daddy our senior king. It is inappropriate to teach right from wrong, we are taught that such judgments do not belong. 
   ``We can get our condoms and birth control, study witchcraft, vampires and totem poles, but the Ten Commandments are not allowed. No word of God must reach this crowd. It is scary here I must confess, when chaos reins the school is a mess. 
   ``So Lord this silent plea I make, should I be shot my soul please take.'' 
   Our Nation which used to lead the world in every arena now leads the world in these areas. Number one in violent crime. We are number one in divorce. We are number one in teenage pregnancies. We are number one in volunteer abortions. We are number one in illegal drug abuse. And we are number one in the industrialized world for illiteracy. 
   Alexis de Tocqueville, a great, young Frenchman, toured our country for 5 years. He wrote a great two-volume treatise on democracy, which is still a classic. And this is what he said. ``In the United States, the influence of religion is not confined to the manners, but shapes the intelligence of the people. Christianity, therefore reigns without obstacle, by universal consequence. The consequence is, as I have before observed, that every principle in a moral world is fixed and enforced.'' 
   And this great quote. ``I sought for the key to the greatness of and genius of America in her great harbors, her fertile fields and boundless forests, in her rich minds and vast world commerce, in her universal public school system and institutions of learning. 
   ``I sought for it in her Democratic Congress and her matchless Constitution. But not until I went into the churches of America and heard her pulpits flame with righteousness did I understand the secret of her genius and power.'' 
   He said, ``America is great, because America is good. And if America ever ceases to be good, America will cease to be great.'' 
   In 1963, Abraham Lincoln declared a National Day of Humiliation. And this is what he said. ``We have been the recipients of the choicest bounties of heaven. We have been preserved these many years in peace and prosperity. We have grown in numbers and wealth and power, as no other Nation has ever grown. But we have forgotten God. We have forgotten the gracious hand which preserved us in peace and multiplied and enriched us. 
   ``And we have vainly imagined in the deceitfulness of our hearts that all these blessings were produced by some superior wisdom and virtue of our own. Intoxicated with unbroken success we have become too self-sufficient to feel the necessity of redeeming and preserving grace. 
   ``Too proud to pray to the God that made us. It behooves us then to humble us ourselves before the offended power, to confess our national sins and to pray for clemency and forgiveness.'' 
   Abraham Lincoln understood that this was a new experiment that might not succeed. In the Gettysburg Address he says this. ``Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth in this continent a new Nation, conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.'' 
   That may sound very strange to us, and this should be unusual. But remember, they came from countries that had a king or an Emperor. ``We are now engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that Nation or any Nation so conceived and so dedicated can long endure.'' 
   We have forgotten from whence we came. Actually this generation has not forgotten, it never knew. I think, Mr. Speaker, that this great free country, the undisputed economic and military super power of the world is at risk if we have forgotten from whence we came. 
   Abraham Lincoln said this to our Nation, and I will close with this. We need to hear it again. ``For all those who have died in all of our wars, it is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great tasks remaining before us, that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause to which they gave the last full measure of devotion, that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vein, that this Nation under God shall have a new birth of freedom.'' 
   Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I yield back. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I came early to our office yesterday morning, and I opened the door and took the newspapers inside and put them out on the reading table. And as I took them out, seven of them, four newspapers and three of the kind of inside-the-beltway papers, I noted the lead story above the fold. In the Sun there were two stories: ``Demand Eats Supply, swiftly rising food prices are undoing progress in fighting hunger globally''; and another above the fold headline: ``Energy Bill Aid Payouts on Rise.'' Then I picked up the Washington Times and noticed an above the  fold headline, ``Bush Lays Gas Blame on Congress.'' And then I picked up the Washington Post, a major headline above the fold: ``Syphoning Off Corn to Fuel Our Cars.'' And then the Wall Street Journal, the biggest headline above the fold, with a graphic and picture above it: ``Grain Companies' Profit Soar As Global Food Crisis Mounts.'' 
   And then I took the three inside-the-beltway newspapers to put them on the reading table, and I looked at the headlines there, on the front page: ``Gas Prices Fuel Effort to Jam GOP.'' ``Alexander Eyes Energy Agenda.'' The first of those was Politico; the second was Roll Call. And the third, The Hill: ``Politics at the Pump.'' 
   So, Mr. Speaker, the seven papers that our office gets, every one of them yesterday had as their leading story above the fold something about energy prices and food prices, which, of course, are related. 
   Also appearing today, and I wanted to make sure that we didn't miss this New York Times column by Thomas Friedman, a very well-known author and commentator, which describes America's energy problems as the ``predictable consequences of an energy strategy that would be exacerbated by the most popular proposed changes to maximize demand, minimize supply, and buy the rest from the people who hate us most.'' In a little bit, I will read some other excerpts from this very interesting op ed piece by Thomas Friedman. 
   I have here a little book which came across my desk, signed by one of the authors to Representative Roscoe Bartlett: ``You are a political voice in the dark. Please continue trying to shed light on this critical issue.'' And the critical issue he's talking about is explained in the title of his book, ``A Very Unpleasant Truth ..... Peak Oil Production and Its Global Consequences.'' And I turned to the little page that talked about who the authors are, about the authors: W.D. Lyle, Jr. holds a Ph.D. in engineering from Purdue University. L. Scott Allen holds a Ph.D. in physics from SMU. Both are retired scientists from the Exploration and Producing Technical Center of a large international oil company. They have been awarded over 40 patents and coauthored or authored more than 50 technical papers with contributions appearing in a variety of journals such as Science, Geophysics, Nuclear Science and Engineering, and the Journal of Petroleum Technology. Both authors, it says, live in the Dallas area. So those are obviously well-respected authorities in their fields. 
   And I turned to chapter 6: ``What About Alternative Energy Sources and What Should We Do Now?'' And it begins by saying, ``What must we do now to prepare for and respond to the inevitable and impending energy crisis?'' 
   And, Mr. Speaker, the seven papers that I just referred to and the headlines on all of them about energy and food would indicate that maybe, just maybe, we're on the cusp of this crisis. 
   And then he says, ``The first and most important thing that needs to be done is to educate and convince the public that a problem even exists.'' 
   Long before I got this book, more than 3 years before I got this book, I thought also that that was the most important thing that needed to be done. And so, Mr. Speaker, I think this is the 43rd time I have come to the floor to spend an hour talking about the challenge. Really it was to explain to the American people the challenge that we face, to educate and convince the public that a problem even exists. Well, I think these seven headlines indicate that at least the editors of those papers thought that a problem existed because they were all talking about the high price of energy and its consequences on food prices. 
   But education is not the only thing that I have been doing. I have been personally involved in at least four activities, which I think will help to advance America on the path that we need to be treading. I'm sponsoring, in conjunction with the SMART Organization, a Smart Green Showcase on July 18 of this year in Frederick, Maryland, that will offer smart energy solutions for homeowners and small business owners. There is a lot of information out there. There's a lot of new technology that just isn't widely known. Practical ways you can use less energy, save money, and help our country transition to domestic, cleaner, and renewable energy sources. The conference will provide educational and networking opportunities for homeowners and representatives of large and small businesses, academic and nonprofit organizations. 
   This Smart Green Showcase has its own Web site, and I would encourage you to go to that Web site, www.smartgreenconference.com, for a fuller explanation of what will be shown at this Smart Green Showcase. 
   In the next few days, I will submit a bill that is a companion bill to a Senate bill, S. 2821, that was introduced in the Senate on the 3rd day of last month by Senator Maria Cantwell and Senator John Ensign, and almost half of the Senators have already signed onto this bill.     
   I have a brief summary of the bill, and because what it does is so important to where I think we need to be going, I am going to take just a moment to read this brief summary. This Clean Energy Tax Stimulus Act of 2008 amends the Internal Revenue Code to extend certain tax incentives for energy production and conservation. It extends through 2009 the tax credit for production of electricity from renewable sources. For example, biomass, geothermal energy, landfill gas, and trash combustion. 
   It includes marine and hydrokinetic renewable energy as a resource eligible for such credit. It allows sales of electricity produced from renewable resources to regulated public utilities. This one is really very important to encourage everybody, even every homeowner, to produce electricity. If they are not using it, sell it back to the power company. 
   It extends the Energy Investment Tax Credit for solar energy through 2016 for fuel cell and microturbine property through 2017. It repeals the dollar per kilowatt limitation for fuel cell property under the Energy Investment Tax Credit. It allows public electric utilities to qualify for such credit. 
   It extends through 2009 the tax credit for residential energy-efficient property expenditures. It repeals the 2000 limitation on the tax credit for solar electric property. It allows an offset against the alternative minimum tax of tax credit amounts. It extends through 2009 the tax credit for investment in clean, renewable energy bonds, increases the national limitation amount for such bonds. 
   It extends through 2009 deferral provisions relating to the recognition of gain by certain electric utilities, and extends to 2009 the tax credit for nonbusiness energy property. It includes residential biomass fuel stoves, that is pellet stoves, as eligible energy property for purposes of such credit. 
   It extends through 2010 the tax credit for energy-efficient new homes. It extends through 2009 the tax deduction for energy-efficient commercial buildings, and increases the allowable amount of such deductions. Finally, it extends the tax credit for energy-efficient appliances, to include appliances produced in 2008, 2009, and 2010, and it revises and updates energy efficiency standards for such appliances in accordance with the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. 
   As shown on the first chart here, I also have a Self-Powered Farm Energy Bill, H.R. 80. This is really a very significant approach to addressing our energy problems because we are going to have to turn more and more to our farmers for energy and products that are produced by energy, that in the future will have to be produced with less energy. This bill would support Federal research, development, demonstration, and commercial application activities to enable the development of self-powered farms that are net producers of both food and energy. They should be capable of independence from offsite sources of energy. A farm standing all alone. 
   Mr. Speaker, if our farms can't be energy independent, we really, really have a huge challenge for the future. I think this is very doable, and this bill will offer awards, rewards to those who do that. Offsite sources of energy, fuel and raw materials for fuel. A community resource for food and energy or raw materials for fuel would minimize or eliminate ongoing operating expenditures to offsite entities for fossil fuel-derived energy, employ sustainable farming practices for long-term soil fertility. We mustn't forget that what  we do to make our farms energy independent and to get energy from our farms, that we must be really concerned about sustainability. It would be easy for a few years to mine the soil, that is take out of the soil more than you're putting back. But if it is not sustainable, it will not be useful for the long term. 
   Employ sustainable farming practices for long-term soil fertility and produces at least two times as much energy, including fuel or raw materials, or fuel, as it consumes both onsite and in the transfer of farm products to market. 
   The next chart shows an additional bill, H.R. 670, that I have introduced, American Energy for America's Future, the bipartisan DRIVE Act, Dependence Reduction through Innovation in Vehicles and Energy Act. What this does is to encourage transition from depending so much on liquid fuels from oil for transportation and move to electricity for transportation. 
   And the reason for this, Mr. Speaker, is pretty obvious, if you stop to think about it. We use two kinds of energy largely in our lives today; electricity for many, many things, but not much for transportation. Most of our transportation comes from fossil fuels, from oil, and some gas. You see city buses advertising that they are running on clean natural gas. 
   We have lots of opportunities to produce more electricity. We can do more solar. France produces 75, 80 percent of their electricity from solar. We have enormous opportunities to grow wind and solar. They are now growing at something like 30 percent a year. That is incredible growth rate. But they started very small. So even with that big growth rate, they are still producing a very minimal amount of energy to the grand mix of energy. 
   We can get a lot more energy in those parts of our country where you're close enough to the molten core of the Earth to get true geothermal energy. You go to Iceland, I have been there, and I did not see a single chimney in Iceland. They may have one. I didn't see it. They get essentially all of their energy there from geothermal energy. That is tapping the molten core of the Earth, which will heat water, and you can do lots and lots of things with it, and hot water. 
   Then, of course we have lots of opportunities for microhydro, without the kind of impact on the environment that our macro hydro has had with these huge dams and we try to compensate with fish ladders and so forth, compensate for the damage we have done to the environment with fish ladders and so forth so the fish who are spawning can get around to them. So we have lots of 
   opportunities for producing electricity. 
   Our options for producing more liquid fuels are far more limited. So this is a very important bill. We are going to be talking for the rest of our few moments together today about these opportunities for producing more liquid fuels. You will see that they really are limited. We really do have a challenge there. 
   So to the extent that we can move transportation dependency from oil to electricity, we will have done a great deal to minimize our dependence on oil and free ourselves from dependence on oil, as the President appropriately said in his State of the Union Message, from people who don't even like us. 
   I wanted to just spend a couple of moments reading some additional comments from Thomas Friedman's article. I don't read this because I necessarily agree with everything he says, but I read it because I think that it's very important, as this little book said, that the American people understand the seriousness of the challenge that faces us. 
   So let me read a few more excerpts from his article that appeared today in the New York Times. The title of his little op-ed piece is called: Dumb as We Wanna Be. ``Here's what's scary: Our problem is so much worse than you think. We have no energy strategy. If you are going to use tax policy to shape energy strategy, then you want to raise taxes on the things that you want to discourage, gasoline consumption and gas-guzzling cars, and you want to lower taxes on the things you want to encourage, new renewable energy technologies. We are doing, he says, ``just the opposite.'' 
   ``The McCain-Clinton gas holiday proposal is a perfect example of what energy expert Peter Schwartz of Global Business Network describes as the true American energy policy today.'' Then I quote again, ``Maximize demand, minimize supply, and buy the rest from the people who hate us the most.'' 
   Then additional excerpts from the article go on to say, ``This is not an energy policy. This is money laundering. We borrow money from China and ship it to Saudi Arabia and take a little cut for ourselves as it goes through our gas tanks. No, no, no. We'll just get the money by taxing Big Oil. Even if you could do that,'' he says, ``what a terrible way to spend precious tax dollars. 
   ``For almost a year now, Congress has been bickering over whether and how to renew the investment tax credit to stimulate investment in solar energy and the production of tax credit to encourage investment in wind energy. The Democrats wanted the wind and solar credits to be paid for by taking away tax credits from the oil industry. President Bush said he would veto that. Neither side would back down. Stalemate.'' 
   You know, as I said, I read this not because I necessarily agree with everything he says, but I read it because it is a very important voice that is saying what I have been trying to say for more than 3 years now, Hey, we face a problem. We have really got to do something about that problem. 
   The next chart, this is a little cartoon which I think tells the story that many people don't believe. Just why is gas so expensive, over $3.50 a gallon now? Just why is gas so expensive? The cartoon says it with just two words, a tiny little supply and a huge big demand. 
   Now there are many people who believe that gas is very expensive at the pump because the major oil companies are gouging us. Many people think that gas is high at the pump because the oil from which we refine it is very expensive because the Arab world is holding back and not producing as much oil as they could produce, or somehow gouging us. 
   The reality is that neither one of these commonly believed reasons for our high gas prices are probably true. There may be a little gouging here and there by stations and so forth. The price of oil is not determined by our big oil companies, ExxonMobil and Shell and Royal Dutch. The price of oil is determined, as this cartoon indicates, by how much there is and how much we would like to use. 
   The Arabs don't determine the price of oil. They can affect the price of oil. If they could produce more oil, they could drive down the price of oil by increasing the supply so it would be more consistent with the demand, and that would reduce the price of oil. There is increasing evidence that they could not do this. That is they could not increase their supply. 
   Russia, a couple of weeks ago, announced that they had peaked in oil production. That they could no longer increase their production. Just last week, Saudi Arabia indicated that they had reached a maximum oil production. They have the granddaddy of all oil fields, the Ghawar, a huge field, producing 5 million barrels a day. They want to bring online a new field. I read a lot about the technicality of that field. It's very interesting, what they have done. This is the field that has a lot of potential oil in it. Khurais, I think. It's hard for me to pronounce words with k-h.     
   They have hired Halliburton to drill a large number of wells, and what they plan to do, what they hope to do, is to flood that field where the oil will not flow. If you drill down in that field, you will not get any oil, although there is a great deal there, and they hope to make this oil flow by pumping water in at the periphery of the field under considerable pressure. 
   But this is a very delicate operation, because if they pump at too high a pressure and too large a volume and the water overflows the oil, it could seal off the little interstices through which the oil would flow and it might kill the field, so there would be no oil from the field. But hopefully they won't do this. They are very good at this technology. And if they are able to develop this field, they will get, they hope, 1.2 million barrels a day. This, they hope, will make up for the oil that  they are not getting as the present fields they are pumping tail off. They have reached a maximum production of oil. 
   The next chart is a chart whose history begins in 1956 with a talk which I think will go down as the most famous speech given in the last century by M. King Hubbert to a group of oil engineers and business people at San Antonio, Texas, in 1956, 52 years ago, on the 8th day of March. This was 1956. Here we are, 1956 right here. 
   He told them that in 1970, this point here. This part of this chart was not available. All they had was this, rapidly increasing oil production. We were the largest producer of oil in the world, the largest consumer of oil in the world, and I think the largest exporter of oil in the world. He said in 14 years, in 1970, the United States will reach its maximum oil production. Shell Oil Company asked him, please don't give that talk. You will make us look silly and make you look silly. He gave the talk, and for a long while was an object of derision. Then, right on schedule, in 1970 we reached our maximum oil production. 
   Now, they didn't know that in 1970. You only know you have reached a maximum when you look back and see, gee, we were pumping more oil then than we are now. But this was clearly, clearly known by 1980, because you can see by 1980 here we are well down the other side of Hubbert's Peak. 
   There are a couple of things in this chart that he did not include in his analysis. He couldn't have known that we were going to get so much natural gas liquids, and he looked at only the lower 48. He didn't look at Alaska, and he didn't look at the Gulf of Mexico, where we have found huge amounts of oil. 
   I have been to Alaska, to Dead Horse, to Prudhoe Bay, and I have seen the very beginning of that 4-foot pipeline through which for a number of years now about one-fourth, about one-fourth of our total domestic production has been flowing. 
   Well, you can see that even when you add the oil which he did not include in his analysis, the oil that we got from the find in Alaska and from the Gulf of Mexico, that that was just a blip on the slide down the other side of Hubbert's Peak. 
   Now, we have done a number of things to try and reverse this, because we are not at all comfortable in this country having only 2 percent of the world's oil and using 25 percent of the world's oil. We have very good scientists and engineers, and we have used a lot of enhanced oil recovery. We have used discovery techniques, 3-D, seismic and computer modeling to go out and find more oil, and we have drilled more oil wells than all the rest of the world put together. 
   In spite of better discovery, of aggressive pumping of these fields with this enhanced oil recovery, in spite of drilling more oil wells than all the rest of the world put together, and in spite of finding oil in Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico, we today are producing about half as much oil as we produced in 1970. 
   I spent a few moments looking at this chart. I think it is very important to understand what M. King Hubbert predicted and what happened and the reality that no matter what we have done, we have not been able to reverse what he said would happen, and that was in 1970 we would reach our maximum oil production, and that after that, no matter what we did, oil production would fall off. 
   The next chart, if I can have the next chart, the next chart is a quote from one of four different reports that our government has paid for and not totally ignored, but largely ignored. They all say the same thing, by the way. This is from the first of those four reports done by SAIC, a very large, prestigious international engineering science organization. Dr. Robert Hirsch was the principal author of that, so it is frequently called the Hirsch Report. He says here on page 64, ``World oil peaking is going to happen.'' 
   Now, the same person that predicted that we would peak in 1970, in 1979 predicted that the world would be peaking about now. I have asked myself a question so many times and asked the question to others, if M. King Hubbert was so right about the United States and if he predicted that the world would be peaking about now, wouldn't it have been appropriate to have a plan B, a plan B which recognized that that might happen, and, gee, you better have some contingency plans preparing for it? When I say ``we,'' I mean the world. That is not what we have done. 
   There is no indication, as evidenced by the behavior of any company or any country, that any of these entities have been doing anything to address the huge challenge that we would have if in fact the world followed the course that the United States so predictably followed, that the world would peak about now. ``World oil peaking is going to happen,'' this report said. ``World production of conventional oil will reach a maximum and decline thereafter. That maximum is called the peak. Oil peaking presents a unique challenge,'' this report says. ``The world has never faced a problem like this. There is no precedent in history to guide us,'' is what this report says. There is no lesson from the past that you can use to guide you as to what you need to be doing to get you through this challenge. 
   The next chart, this is a chart of data which is compiled by the two leading entities in the world that track the production and consumption of oil. Now, we store a little, very little, in our strategic reserves in this country and some other countries, but, by and large, all the oil we produce is consumed. 
   ``Peak Oil: Are We There Yet?'' These two agencies are the IEA, the International Energy Agency, a part of the UN, and the EIA, the Energy Information Administration, a part of our own Department of Energy. 
   The IEA, the international one, says that for the last 18 months or so we have reached a plateau in oil production. As a matter of fact, just at the end of the line they have drawn through there up and down, because it is not a constant thing, up today and down tomorrow and so forth, it is actually tipping over just slightly. The EIA, the green line, shows that from their data we have been constant and actually a little lower now, but relatively constant in oil production for the last 3 years. 
   Now, if in fact the world's production of oil has been flat in the last 3 years, and these are the two best recognized entities in the world for tracking this, if in fact it has been flat for the last 3 years and demand has continued to go up, what would naturally happen to oil prices? 
   Well, oil prices were, what, when they started, $50-some dollars a barrel. Now, they are off the chart now, about $110 today. It has dropped off a little from the $120 of last week. I think that dropoff, Mr. Speaker, is because $120 oil is just plain too costly for a lot of the world and they haven't been able to use it. They just make do with less. So we have some higher reserves than we thought, and the speculators now are speculating that the price of oil will come down for the moment because of these reserves. Of course, $110 oil, the price is off the chart here. 
   M. King Hubbert predicted in 1979 that the world would be peaking about now. All four of these studies, the first one I mentioned, the SAIC study, the second one, the Corps of Engineers study, the third one, the Government Accountability study, and the fourth one, one done by the National Petroleum Council, and all four of those say essentially the same thing: Peaking of oil is inevitable, absolutely inevitable; that it is either present or imminent, with potentially devastating consequences. 
   Now, I say again, if M. King Hubbert was right about the United States, and we spent quite some little while looking at that chart, and in spite of everything that we have done, better oil discovery, aggressive pumping of the oil, enhanced oil recovery, and although we drill more wells than the rest of the world put together, M. King Hubbert 's prediction is still true. Today we are producing about half the oil we produced in 1970. He predicted that the world would be peaking in oil production about now. These four studies all said that peaking of oil is inevitable. They didn't know when it would occur. 
   These data from the EIA and the IEA would lead you to believe, unless this is just a little plateau and it will take off again, and the next chart we will look at, if we can have the next chart now, the next chart will tell us how likely it is that this is just a little plateau and then it is going to take off again.  
   If you had only one chart to look at, only one chart to use for informing yourself and talking about this subject, this would be the chart. This chart shows in the bars here going back as far as 1930 the discoveries of oil, and, boy, it was up and down. We found some big fields in some of these years, so we got some huge spikes. But notice the general trend of this. Since about 1970 it has been down, down, down, down, and that is in spite of evermore aggressive and better techniques for finding the oil. 
   Now, if this peak is just a plateau and is going to take off again, then you need to believe that one of two things is going to happen: Either we are going to find very quickly better ways of teasing out from the reserves we are now pumping more oil, or we are going to find more reserves of oil, more big reserves of oil.     
   The solid black line here indicates the oil that we have used. And the world was in a very happy position up until about 1980. Every year until 1980, we found more oil, sometimes a lot more oil, than we used that year. If you integrate under this curve, you will get the total volume of oil that we have used. So this area represents the volume of oil that we have used. 
   Now, ever since about 1980, of course, we have been finding less oil than we use, so now this area here has been filled in by reserves back here. They are still there. We know they are underground. We know we can pump them. 
   Now, how much more will we find in the future? Most of the experts believe that we have probably found, of conventional oil--we will talk in a few minutes about unconventional oil. Most experts believe that for conventional oil we have probably found 90 percent, 95 percent of all the oil we will find in the future. Those who made this chart suggest that future discoveries will follow a descending curve, ever less and less, as we go further and further into the future, because once you found some oil, then additional oil is more and more difficult to find. Now, this clearly won't be that smooth, it will be up and down, but they are suggesting it will follow a curve much like that. 
   Now, what will the future look like? What the future will look like will depend upon your perception of several things: How much more oil you think we will find; it will depend upon how aggressive you think we can be in pumping oil. But one thing is certain: You cannot pump oil you have not found. 
   Now, the way this chart is drawn, it doesn't go clear out until the end, of course; it goes out another 150 years. Every year, and this has been the experience in the United States, less and less oil, harder and harder to get. And now, with the world situation, not true in our country because nobody else made up the deficit for the oil we didn't pump; and so for a long while, even when our oil production was dropping off, oil was still $10 a barrel because other countries could produce it quickly and easily, and they did, so that made up for our shortfall. But that is not going to happen in the future because, as indicated by a prior chart, as indicated by all four of these studies, paid for by your government, delivered to your government, oil is going to peak. 
   And if the United States is a microcosm of the world, you would reasonably judge that, no matter how aggressive we become, and we have been really aggressive in our country, like drilling more oil wells than all the rest of the world put together, you still are not going to reverse that decline. 
   So what the future looks like, and you see the oil that you are using here above the amount of oil that you found is going to have to be filled in by reserves from here. You can use your eye and transfer these reserves there and see reasonably what that curve will look like. 
   The next chart presents a little schematic. Now, I will point out what is quite obvious: That this peak can be made very sharp if I compress the abscissa and expand that ordinate, that will become a very sharp curve. Here, I have spread it out so it is a very gradual curve. This is a 2 percent growth curve. That is about the rate at which the world has been increasing its use of oil. By the way, 2 percent growth doubles in 35 years; it is four times bigger in 70 years; it is eight times bigger in 105 years; it is 16 times bigger in 140 years. 
   This led Albert Einstein to answer a question asked by someone after we had discovered nuclear energy: What will be the next big energy force in the universe? And his response was: The most powerful force in the universe is the power of compound interest. And, of course, compound interest is compound growth. 
   This chart shows a 35-year growth period, the yellow. I think we are about here, and peaking is either present or imminent. And most people are looking at avoiding any problems in the future by filling the gap. If this is what you have available and this is what you would like to use, this yellow area represents the gap. 
   There are a lot of things out there that we can exploit to get some liquid fuels from. In their totality, most of the experts that are really seriously looking at this, in their totality, most people believe that it will be extremely difficult to produce as much liquid fuel as we now are using, let alone filling the gap. I will say that that will not bring us to any calamitous end. We have enormous opportunities for conservation and efficiency. 
   The other morning as I came into work, I noticed in one of the lanes in front of me a big SUV with one person in it. In the lane right next to them was a Prius with two people in it. Now, the Prius, I have one, we get about 48 miles per gallon. That is at least three times that SUV. Isn't it? So the Prius gets three times the miles per gallon of the SUV; and there were two people in it; so that means that miles per gallon per person was six times better in the Prius with two people in it than it was in the SUV with one person in it. And the Prius is a very comfortable vehicle, and riding with someone else makes the trip to work more enjoyable. So, we have lots and lots of opportunities to increase our efficiency. 
   The next chart is an interesting one, because there are a lot of people who believe that somehow we are going to find a huge amount of more oil out there. In a few moments we are going to talk about some of these potentials. And there may be a lot out there. But what I am saying is that we really need to have a plan B, because there is nothing that we have done in our country which has avoided the inevitable slide down the other side of Hubbert's Peak that M. King Hubbert predicted in 1956. 
   This is a chart again from Robert Hirsch, and he gets this from EIA, Energy Information Administration, and they are predicting here in this chart that we will find as much more oil as all the reserves we now know to be able to be pumped. 
   Most experts believe that the ultimate amount of oil, the total amount that we will pump in the world from 
   the beginning to the end of the age of oil will be about 2 trillion barrels. Here it is 2.2. They are suggesting here that we will find another nearly 1 trillion, because this curve is based on what they call the main or expected value of 3 trillion barrels. Now, that means that they think we are going to find just about as much more oil as all the oil which we now have in reserves which can be pumped. 
   Now, even if that curve occurs--and this is because of that exponential growth. Even if this occurs, the peak is pushed out from here to 2016. The dotted line, by the way, and I don't know if it is even doable. The dotted line shows what would happen if you would have an aggressive, enhanced recovery and pump it more quickly. It pushes the peak out a little bit, and then you fall off a cliff after that. 
   This black curve, by the way, you will recognize from the big black curve on the oil chart, remember, with all the bars going up. This is the recession in the 1970s. If it weren't for that--the old saying, it is an ill wind that brings no good. And that ill wind of those Arab oil price spike hikes and the worldwide recession that followed that, that is this dip here, we actually were using less energy for a while, we really looked at our efficiency. And your air conditioner now is probably three times as efficient as it was then. Your freezer, the same thing. If we had not done that, look at this curve, look where it would be, off the chart. 
   There was a stunning statistic during the Carter years, and that was that  every decade we used as much oil as had been used in all of previous history. That is really different now. This slope you can see is very much less than this slope. So this was kind of a blessing in disguise, because it woke us up, and we now have a much lesser challenge than we would have had if we not had those oil price spikes and that little recession in the 1970s and this call to arms that resulted in a lot of equipment that is now a whole lot more efficient. 
   The next chart is a fairly recent statement by Shell Oil Company CEO van der Veer. By the year 2100, he says, the world's energy system will be radically different from today's. The world's current predicament limits our maneuvering room. We are experiencing a step change in the growth rate of energy demand. And Shell estimates that, after 2015, supplies of easy-to-access oil and gas will no longer keep up with demand. It may be a little sooner than that, as indicated by these curves from the IEA and the EIA. As a result, he says, society has no choice but to add other energy sources. 
   The next chart is one that kind of puts this in perspective. This looks at the industrial age. 
   By the way, there is a fascinating speech that was given. If M. King Hubbert's speech was the most important speech of the last century, I think the most insightful speech of the last century would be the speech given by the father of our nuclear submarine, Hyman Rickover, given 51 years ago the 14th day of this month to a group of physicians in St. Paul, Minnesota. If you do a Google search for ``Rickover'' and ``energy speech,'' it will pop up. 
   He noted then that we were about 100 years into the age of oil, which--and he uses just beautiful expressions, which he referred to as the golden age. And truly it has been a golden age. And he had no idea how long the age of oil will last; now we have a much better idea. But he made a very important statement. He said that, how long the age of oil lasted was important in only one regard: That the longer it lasted, the more time that we have to plan for an orderly transition to nonfossil fuels. 
   About 17 months ago, I was privileged to lead a codel of nine Members of Congress to China to talk about energy. Interestingly, they began their discussion of energy by talking about post-oil. Wow, I thought, these people think in terms of generations and centuries. 
   We are a great country, and a part of our affluence and our greatness is that we have a near-term focus, essential for our business, but I think it would be nice if we had a little longer term view, too. It is hard for our businesses to see beyond the next quarterly report; hard for elected officials to see beyond the next election. But they were talking about post-oil, and what they would be doing and what the world should be doing now and would be doing in a post-oil world. 
   Well, Hyman Rickover talked about 8,000 years of recorded history, and he said that the age of oil would be but a blip in the history of man. I only have here about 400 years of that 8,000 years; but if you went back to the rest of the 8,000 years, it would be flat because we use very little energy. Here is the industrial revolution beginning with wood; and then we have coal; and, boy, did it take off when we found gas and oil. 
   This is the same curve that you have seen before, by the way. This is the dip in the 1970s in the lesser slope now. Here, we have compressed abscissa and expanded the ordinate, so now we have a very sharp curb compared to the very gradual one we have been looking in the past. 
   If I superimposed on this a graph of population growth, it would explode from roughly 1/2 billion here, following this up almost exactly to the nearly 7 billion people we have in the world today. 
   This reality, as the next chart shows us, introduces us to a very challenging geopolitical reality. We have 2 percent of the world's reserves; we use 25 percent of the world's oil; we import almost 2/3 of what we use. We pump four times faster than the rest of the world. We produce, from our 2 percent, 8 percent of the world's oil production. So, we are pumping and our more wells than all the rest of the world put together are working. We are pumping down our reserves faster. We represent a bit less than 5 percent of the world's population, one person in 22, and we use 1/4 of the world's energy. 
   The next chart speaks a little more to this geopolitical challenge that we face. If you look at the top ten owners of oil, that is the bar on the right here, it is mostly countries that own it: Saudi Aramco, National Iranian Oil, Iraqi National Oil, and so forth.     
   And Luke Oil which is kind of private in Russia has only 2 percent. These are the top ten. 
   If you now look at the top ten producers of oil, they are really big guys: ExxonMobil, Royal Dutch, BP. They produce only 22 percent of the oil. Most of the oil is produced by countries rather than companies. 
   The next chart speaks further to this geopolitical challenge that we face. This shows what China is doing around the world. The dollar signs indicate where we own some oil. You don't see very many of them here. This symbol indicates where China owns oil, a lot of it in Russia. Notice they have bought up oil all over the world. 
   The next chart speaks again to this geopolitical challenge that we have. This is what the world would look like if the size of the country was relative to the amount of oil they have. Very interesting. Saudi Arabia dominates the landscape. They should, they have 22 percent, more than a fifth of all of the oil in the world. Iraq, Kuwait, and you have to get a magnifying glass to see the United Arab Emirates on a map. Russia, not a giant compared to the others, but they are an aggressive pumper of oil. I think they are now the number two producer of oil in the world. 
   Venezuela, it dwarfs our part of the world. Bigger than everybody else in this part of the world, but notice we get most of our oil from Canada. Our third largest producer of oil is Mexico. Together they have about as much oil as we have. Canada doesn't have very many people, and they are too poor in Mexico to use the oil and so they can export the oil. But this speaks again to the geopolitical challenge that we face. 
   The last chart, I just wanted to look at the sources from which we are going to get liquid fuels. I have argued that because we face this huge challenge in the future, and because it is going to be very difficult to produce as rapidly as we would like to, the liquid fuels to replace what won't be there as we slide down the other side of the world, Hubbert's peak, that it would be nice to have in reserve a little bit of the oil we know that is out there which is why I have not been enthusiastic about drilling in ANWR or offshore or on our public lands. 
   Maybe it is because I have 10 kids and 16 grandkids and two great-grandkids. And I came to Congress because I was afraid that my kids and grandkids weren't going to live in the same kind of country that I grew up in. I thought we had too much government, it taxed too much, it regulated too much, and it spent way too much. I would just like for my kids and my grandkids and great-grandkids to have the same opportunity I have had, and energy is so important in our world. So I have been resistant to immediately drilling in ANWR and offshore and on our public lands because it is like money in the bank that is yielding huge interest rates. I don't think you ought to rush to the bank and pull it out and spend it. It will be even more valuable later. 
   We will get a little of this and a little of that. There is no magic bullet out there. I am sure everybody is familiar with what happened with corn ethanol. We are using so much corn for ethanol, it has raised the price of food around the world. Farmers have diverted land from wheat and soybeans to corn. Rice harvests are down. Costco, I understand, will sell you only one bag of rice now. 
   Mr. Speaker, let me close by saying I am kind of exhilarated by this. There is no exhilaration like meeting and overcoming a big challenge, and I think America is up to this. With leadership, I think we can once again become an exporting country. We have the technology and the know-how. We are the most innovative, creative society in the world. I think when America understands this challenge, they will be up to the challenge, and America will lead the world in moving from fossil fuels to renewables.  
   I think I will be here a week from today, and what I want to do at that time is spend most of the time talking about realistic expectations from all of these alternative sources of liquid fuels. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (FROM FOSSIL FUELS TO RENEWABLES -- (House of Representatives - March 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Madam Speaker, I want to talk about a subject today that at least five groups in our country have a common cause in. They come from quite different perspectives, but they all end up at the final common pathway. And these groups are those who are concerned with national security. They are concerned because our country has only 2 percent of the known reserves of oil in the world, and we use 25 percent of the world's oil and import almost two-thirds of what we use. And as the President says, we get a lot of that from countries that don't even like us. 
   And so those who are concerned about national security are urging that we make a transition from these fossil fuels, most of which are owned by countries over there, and move to renewables so that we can have a sustainable source of energy for our country from a national security perspective. 
   There is a second group of people who believe that our burning of these fossil fuels is polluting the environment to an unacceptable level. And it is not just the greenhouse gases, because that introduces us to a third group. But it is all of the other pollutants that come in the atmosphere as a result of using these fossil fuels in all the ways that we use them to produce energy, coal, fire, power plants, our automobiles, our trains, heating our buildings, all the ways that we use energy. 
   By the way, you can make an argument that even if you are producing more CO  
   2, that may not produce global warming if you are producing it by burning hydrocarbons in a way that puts a lot of other pollutants up in the atmosphere. 
   I remember a number of years ago when Carl Sagan, the great astronomer, was noting that if we had a nuclear war we might go through what he called nuclear winter; and the trash thrown up into the atmosphere as a result of the nuclear explosions, he  thought, might block enough of the Sun's rays that there would be a cooling of the Earth so that we would go through a kind of an ice age. Indeed, there is some natural phenomena that give some credibility to that possibility. 
   Whenever there is a major volcano that goes off, an eruption that throws millions of tons of trash up there that may circulate for a couple of years before all the fine particles finally come down, we can see a degree or two of temporary cooling in the Earth as a result of that. So there is the environmental group that is concerned about our excessive burning of these fossil fuels and the pollutants that come from that, and they are very interested in conservation, in efficiency, and moving to true renewables.     
   And then there is the growing group of those who are concerned that the release of these greenhouse gases, CO  
   2 being one of the major ones, is warming our Earth. 
   Now, it is true that our Earth is warmer than it has been in the last 10,000 years, since the last Ice Age, and maybe as warm as it has been, some say, in the last million years if in fact we have been here that long. It is not certain that there is a cause-effect relationship between CO  
   2 and warming. 
   But when you go back through history, and they do this in Antarctica by doing ice borings, and that is a desert down there; they have less than 2 inches of precipitation per year; it doesn't fall as snow, it falls as tiny little ice granules, and that accumulates very slowly. There is nearly 2 miles of ice piled up at the South Pole down there. And so with borings you can go in there and you can look back through tens of thousands of years, and the scientists can tell pretty much what the climate was like and what the temperatures were by the kinds of materials that were deposited there during that time. And they note that every time that CO  
   2 was up, the Earth was warmer. So that at least is a presumptive evidence that CO 
   2 certainly as a greenhouse gas is the cause of the present global warming that we are looking at. 
   And, of course, what the global warming people want is to move away from fossil fuels, because what we are doing with fossil fuels is releasing into the atmosphere carbon dioxide that was sequestered by plants a very long time ago. 
   As a little boy, I knew that that is what was happening, because we lived up in western Pennsylvania and we had a coal furnace; as a matter of fact, we didn't buy it, we mined it on our own farm. 
   There was an abandoned mine on the farm and we got the services of a miner in the little local town and he opened up the mine and we shared the coal that he got from it, and we would use coal as it came from the mine, some big chunks and down to very small ones, and some were too big to put in the furnace. And as a little boy, when it was my time to tend the furnace I would have to go down and sometimes break a lump of coal so that I could get it into the furnace. 
   I remember taking that sledgehammer that stood by the wall there and breaking the lump of coal, and once in a while it would open up and there would be a fern leaf. I remember as a little kid looking at that fern leaf and wondering, how long ago did that fern live and die and fall over and now be compressed under dirt and with time it finally converted to coal? So as a little boy I knew that the coal that we were burning came from plants that lived a very long time ago, and they had sequestered the CO  
   2 then over thousands of years perhaps. 
   And now what we are doing in a relatively few years, because we are in the age of oil, only about 150 years now in the age of oil, and we are now releasing into the atmosphere all the CO  
   2 that has been taken out of the atmosphere over a very long time period. 
   So what the global warming concerned people are interested in is an energy economy that uses the energy that we are producing. If you are burning the tree that grew, you are now releasing into the atmosphere the CO  
   2 which the tree took out of the atmosphere. So although, and if it was possible, I am not sure that it is, that we could get as much energy from these alternative renewable sources that we are now getting from fossil fuels, you can use them to your heart's desire and you wouldn't increase the CO 
   2 in the atmosphere because for every pound of CO 
   2 that you released into the atmosphere, that pound was taken out of the atmosphere by the tree or the grass or whatever grew that you were getting energy from.
   And so what the people concerned with global warming want us to do is to move as quickly as we can from fossil fuels to these renewables. So they have common cause with the environmental people and with the national security people. 
   And then there is a group of people growing, not large yet but growing, who believe that, even if you don't have any concern about the environment, even if you don't have any concern about global warming, even if you don't think that it is a national security risk to be getting so much of our oil from over there, it just isn't going to be there because we are going to have such a phenomenon as peak oil. By the way, our country reached that plateau in 1970. We will talk about that in a few moments. 
   And then there is a fourth group that really ought to have common cause here, and that is the group that is concerned about what could America do to get back as a premier manufacturing Nation? And you know that we are not now, because all you have to do is to look at the cars on the road and where they are made, and I think more than half of them are now made overseas. And all you have to do is go into a store and buy things and just look at the tag at where it is made. And I have to look and look and look to find something that is made in the United States anymore. You would make a lot of money if your wager was that the first thing you pick up is going to be made in China, because almost always the first thing you pick up is made in China. 
   So we desperately need an area in which we can be premier, in which we can export to the world, and I would submit that that would be in the energy efficiency and alternative energy area. There is no society in the world that is half as creative and innovative as the American people if we are challenged and if we see the need and if we see the goal. 
   So I wanted to talk today about this phenomenon which I think that these five groups have common cause in: Those that are concerned about national security, those that are concerned about the environment and isn't our air polluted enough, those that are concerned with global warming, those that believe that by and by the oil just isn't going to be there, the Moon isn't made out of green cheese and the Earth isn't made out of oil and, quite obviously, it is not going to last forever, and then the group that is looking for something where we can again become a premier engineering and manufacturing Nation. And, of course, we have now relinquished that premier position to other parts of the world. 
   The first chart that I have here kind of explains a lot of our dilemma, the World According to Oil. And I found this, and I found it so intriguing that I have shown it now a couple of times. But what this does is to show you what our planet would look like if the size of the nation was relative to how much oil it had. And, boy, do we have a warped geography here. 
   Here is Saudi Arabia, and it dominates. Look how big Saudi Arabia is. How many times could we put the United States in Saudi Arabia, 20? That is about how much more oil they have than we have. Canada looks pretty big here; they have got a meaningful amount of oil compared to the lower 48, compared to their size. Look at Venezuela down here, it just dwarfs the rest of South America. And look at the North of Africa here. 
   The countries that we think of as being important in the world economy like England and Europe and so forth, look at them there, they look like little splotches here on the globe if the countries were sized according to the amount of oil that they have. 
   Iraq. So you can see why people are concerned about Iraq, it is a pretty big reservoir of oil. Little Kuwait. If you look at a map of that part of the world, you will see that Kuwait, and Saddam Hussein thought that it looked like a province down there in the most southeastern part of Kuwait that he wanted  to reclaim it and that is why he went in more than a decade ago, but it is tiny compared to Iraq. You could fit the United States into Kuwait five, six times. Here is Qatar, a little nation so small you can hardly see it on the globe but there it is probably as large as the United States. Iran, now problems with Iran, note how large Iran is. 
   Something of particular note on this. The two countries that contain about 2 1/2 billion people total, more than 1 billion now in India, and 1,300,000,000 in China, and look at how big they are relative to oil. Russia north of them, which has only 140 million people, dwarfs them. By the way, notice how big Russia is, 1 1/2 or maybe twice as big as the United States, it doesn't have all that much oil. We have only 2 percent of the known reserves, this is about 2 percent of that total volume of oil nations there. And Russia looks big as an oil exporter because they don't use that much oil so they can export, but they really don't have all that much oil compared to countries like Saudi Arabia and so forth. 
   The next chart is a prediction that was made by a very famous speech that was given 51 years ago the 8th 
   day of this month. And I will submit that, within a decade, this may well be recognized as the most important speech given in the last century. It was a speech given by M. King Hubbert, who was an oil geologist and he worked for the Shell Oil Company. And there was a convention of oil people in San Antonio, Texas on the 8th day of March 1956, and he got up and gave an absolutely audacious speech. It was inconceivable and unbelievable when he gave the speech. 
   What he said was that the United States, and if you look back in your history at that point in time we were king of oil; we were producing more oil and I think exporting more oil than any other country in the world. And he predicted that this giant in oil would reach its maximum production of oil in just about 14 years, and he was predicting that by about 1970 we would reach our maximum production of oil. 
   Now, he was talking only about the lower 48. He couldn't imagine at that time that we would be able to go out and drill in the Gulf of Mexico where there are now 4,000 oil wells, I think, and he did not take into account that we might find oil. I expect the technology for getting it out of there probably would have been very difficult at that time. So he was predicting the lower 48. And that would be everything here of the rest of the U.S. and Texas. You see how big Texas was here. Maybe a third in total oil we have ever produced has come from Texas. And that would be the lower 48. 
   As you see, right on schedule in 1970, his prediction came true. That shocked a lot of people. And whereas he had been an object of ridicule before that, now he became kind of a legend in his own time. 
   And then we found that huge strike of oil in Alaska in Prudhoe Bay up at Dead Horse, I have been there; I saw the beginning of that 4-foot pipeline, through which for a number of years now about one-fourth of our total oil has flowed. And then the nongas liquids you see up here. If you add those two in, there was just a bump on the way down the other side of Hubbert's Peak. 
   And here we are today. In the lower 48, we are producing considerably less than half of the oil that we produced in 1970. And if you even add to that the liquids made from gases and the Gulf of Mexico oil, now that is recent enough that people can remember that, and you may remember the hype that went on over that. Gee, we don't have to worry about oil for the foreseeable future. We found this enormous amount of oil in the Gulf of Mexico; and, as I mentioned, there are about 4,000 oil wells there. Notice that hardly made a blip in our slide down the other side of Hubbert's Peak. 
   The next chart shows a depiction of Hubbert's Peak, and this is from a very interesting publication. This is in a publication by CERA. Now, CERA is one of the few organizations that believes that you don't need to be worrying about oil for the next number of years, and they have this chart in their publication and they intend to repudiate and ridicule M. King Hubbert with this chart. And they are saying that M. King Hubbert couldn't have been right because look at the actual data here. 
   Now, this is the total U.S. production, the red, and the yellow is the Hubbert's lower 48. And what he is saying was that Hubbert must have been all wrong, because the actual lower 48 production are these green things down here, and they think that is far enough away from the yellow that his prognostication is repudiated by this. 
   I would think the average person looking would say, well, gee, he was right on. Wasn't he? He said it was going to peak in 1970, that is 1970. He said it would go downhill after that. Well, it didn't go downhill quite as fast as he thought it would, but it certainly has gone downhill after that. Maybe he couldn't have imagined that we would drill more than 1/2 million oil wells in this country. We have more oil wells drilled in this country than all the rest of the world put together. 
   Now, the red here reflects that contribution from Prudhoe Bay and from the Gulf of Mexico that we saw in the previous one, that little blip going down the other side of Hubbert's Peak. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (FROM FOSSIL FUELS TO RENEWABLES -- (House of Representatives - March 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman very much for his kind words. 
   This is, in fact, the 25th time that I have been here. And, wow, it was the 14th, just about a year ago I came here  for the first time, the 14th of last month, March. And we were putting our charts together and we were trying to decide what to call this phenomenon. Were we going to call it the ``great rollover,'' when you reach the top and start down the other side, or were we going to call it ``peak oil''? And we had a long conversation in the office about what we should call it, and we finally decided we would call it ``peak oil.'' 
   Now, I didn't know that there were some other people out there already calling it ``peak oil'' because I am a whole lot wiser now than I was then, but this kind of indicates the status of the recognition of the problem a year ago, and I was one of the more interested people in the Congress in this and I didn't even know what to call it. I was arguing with myself and with the staff. We were discussing it. Should we call it the ``great rollover,'' and it will be a great rollover, or should we call it ``peak oil''? We finally settled on ``peak oil,'' and now today there is an increasing number of people who are concerned about peak oil. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (FROM FOSSIL FUELS TO RENEWABLES -- (House of Representatives - March 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Well, thank you. I think there are several reasons for this. One is an irrational confidence, worship almost, of the marketplace, and technology. And the third is that people just don't like to think about tough, hard things. I love to think about those things because there is no exhilaration like the exhilaration of meeting a big challenge and overcoming it. So this is exhilarating to me, and there are many people that don't like this. And my wife tells me that I shouldn't be doing this because don't you remember that in ancient Greece they killed the messenger that brought bad news? And my response is this is a good news story. If we start today, we will have a less bumpy ride than if we start tomorrow. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (FROM FOSSIL FUELS TO RENEWABLES -- (House of Representatives - March 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. I want to thank my friend for joining me. This is absolutely a bipartisan issue. I don't know that energy and oil knows the difference between a Democrat and a Republican. So I am very pleased that you joined me on the floor. 
   I might say just a word about these two philosophies that are keeping us from really focusing on this issue. One is an almost reference for the marketplace. There are many people who believe that the marketplace is both omniscient, it knows everything; and it is omnipotent, it is all powerful and it will solve everything. Well, I believe the market is really very powerful. But, you know, there are some things that even God can't do. God can't make a square circle, can he? So there are some things that the marketplace won't be able to do. 
   I do not think that the market signals will be able to be responded to quickly enough to meet this challenge. If there were infinite resources, then this blind faith in the market might have some relevance. But there clearly are not infinite resources. The amount of oil out there is, in fact, finite. 
   The other is the near worship of scientists and technology: Don't worry, they will fix it. I mentioned to one of our really high officials in government that peak oil was a reality and that it just wasn't going to be there in the future in the amounts that we need for our economy. And he said, Well, I guess when that happens, the price will go up and people will use less and they will find something else and that solves the problem. Don't worry about it, they will fix it. 
   Well, I point to two different societies: The Mayan society down in Central America. That didn't get fixed and they are gone. Our cliff dwellers out in the West. I am sure that a number of folks have been there and seen those cliffs, and their world is gone. And I am sure when it was deteriorating, they were saying to each other, Don't worry, they will take care of it. 
   Easter Island, a vigorous civilization there, and when we finally found the last survivors of it they were living in caves. They were eating rats and each other because they had done, in that little part of the planet, what we may one day do to our total planet; that is, they were living beyond the renewable resources of their little island there in Easter Island and somebody didn't fix it. There wasn't somebody there to fix it. 
   The next chart looks at a number of the experts and what their predictions are as to when this peak oil that Mr. Markey was talking about is going to occur. And we are now here in 2007 and notice that there is a large number of them here: Colin Campbell, Kenneth Deffeyes, Matt Simmons. Several of these I know personally. And their predictions are all in the very, very near timeframe. As a matter of fact, Deffeyes believes that we now have passed peak oil. He said he used to be a prognosticator and now he is an historian. He is now looking back at the event of peak oil. And then we have a few that believe it will be between 2010 and 2016. And then CERA. CERA is the largest one here. Shell. No visible peak. Very few who believe that it may be some time off in the future. 
   We will have an opportunity in a few moments to talk about CERA and some of their projections. But notice that most, the large percentage of all of those who have been looking at this and studying this believe that peak oil is either present or imminent. 
   The next chart is a really interesting one. And if you had only one chart to look at, this I think is the most instructive of all of the charts that we have because on this one chart, it shows the discovery, and that is the large bars here. And you see that back in the 1940s we were discovering lots and in the 1950s, and, boy, in the 1960s and 1970s huge amounts of oil. But notice what has happened. Since about 1980 it has been down, down, down. And that is in spite of ever better technologies for discovering oil and ever better incentives. 
   When Reagan came to office, that was in 1980, and we were already 10 years down the other side of Hubbert's Peak; so we knew darn well that M. King Hubbert was right, that the United States had reached its peak and we were sliding down the other side of the peak. And I really liked Ronald Reagan. I can like a person without liking everything that they do. And I thought then and I am more convinced now that his solution to this oil problem was totally the wrong solution. His belief was that if you gave them a profit incentive they would go out there and find it. So they gave them a profit incentive, and, boy, did they drill. And I don't have it with me, but I have a chart that shows the number of wells that were drilled and how much oil was found. And drilling didn't help. You can't find what is not there and you can't pump what you haven't found. So in spite of ever better techniques like 3D seismic and computer modeling, we now pretty much know what the whole globe looks like geologically except maybe we would like to know a little more about Saudi Arabia and some of  the countries around the Caspian. But largely we are pretty aware of what the geology is, and we know that gas and oil can occur in only certain unique geological formations. 
   The dark line here represents the use of oil. And you see that for a long while we were finding enormously more oil than we were using. But from about 1980 on, we were finding less and less and using more and more. 
   By the way, notice this little blip here in the 1970s. This is the result of the Arab oil embargo, and had this curve kept going up at the rate it was before, where would it be? There was a stunning statistic up through the Carter years, through this time; every decade we used as much oil as had been used in all of previous history. Wow. What that says is that when you have used half of all the oil in the world, there would be what, one decade left at current use rates? Now, obviously, that couldn't happen because you are not going to use it and then fall off a cliff at the end because the last remaining oil is going to be harder and harder to get. But since about 1980 on, we have now been eating into or reserves, and you will have to take some of this surplus here and fill in this area here. And then what will the future look like? 
   This chart presumes that it will peak in about 2010. And you can make the future, within limits, look differently, depending upon how aggressive you want to be in using enhanced oil recovery and if you want to drill everywhere in the world the equivalent of the half million wells that we have drilled in this country. If you drilled 10 wells rather than one in the Oil Patch, you obviously would get the oil out quicker. You are not going to get any more oil out probably, but you will get it out more quickly. 
   So there may be some argument about what the future looks like, but there can be no argument that you can't pump what you haven't found. Now, if you put a smooth curve over this discovery curve, the area under that curve represents the total amount of our discoveries. That is the equivalent of adding up all these little individual bars. And if you look at the area under the use curve, that will be the amount of oil that we have used. 
   Now, obviously, at the end of the day, those two areas are going to be the same. So unless you think that we are going to reverse this discovery curve and find a lot more oil, and some people do think that, by the way, and we will talk about that in a few moments, but unless you think that we are going to find a lot more oil, the future cannot look very much different than this because you can't pump what you haven't found.     
   Because you can't pump what you haven't found, and the area under this discovery curve cannot be different than the area under the use curve. There are many people who are projecting uses that would just indicate that we are going to have to find enormously more oil in the future. One of those projections is in the next chart. 
   This is from our Energy Information Agency, and this is projections of discoveries. Now, they didn't draw a really smooth curve. They took in some of the big humps, but they could have smoothed this whole thing out. 
   This is the discovery curve we were just looking at. I think you can recognize that, way up here in the seventies and down, down, down since then. Back in about 2000 they were projecting what we would find in the future. Now, they used some very interesting assumptions here. 
   The USGS has done a series of simulations. They have some computer modeling, and they have done a whole series of computer modelings, thousands of these, with different inputs. If this was true, if that was true, then what would the likely amount of yet-to-be-discovered oil be. And they have charted those things, and they have the frequency on the ordinate, and on the abscissa they have the amount of oil yet to be found. 
   Now, this is all a computer game. They simply are making some guesses, assumptions; and they are putting those into this computer model and they are running that model; and as they change the assumptions, they will change the amount of oil they think we will find. 
   So they have gone to the midpoint of that, and they have said that was F, they call it F, and somehow that got distorted to P and they are now talking about probabilities, which is just bizarre, because these are not probabilities. But this is the fraction of oil that you will find more or find less than this. 
   So what did they have here? Three of these curves. They have the P-95, that is 95 percent probability they say. Then they have the P-50. That is really F-50 in the data they took this from. And then they have the 5. What they are saying is that since 50 is halfway between 5 and 95 it is the mean and therefore that is the most probable. So their projection when they made the chart was that this downward slope was now going to be reversed and we were going to start going up. 
   Of course, if they really are probabilities, and it didn't start as that, it started as these fractional things, but it ended up being projected here as probabilities, if they really are probabilities, there should be another green line down here and another blue line down here. 
   It is like that little funnel-shaped thing you see from the hurricane. Tomorrow you are pretty certain where it is going to be. The day after tomorrow, you are less certain, so that gets to be a big funnel as you go out. So that is what these various probabilities are. 
   Now, not surprisingly, the actual data points have followed the 95 percent probability. If you say those are probabilities, obviously this 95 percent probable is a whole lot more probable than 50 percent probable. But for what it is worth, the actual data points for a decade or so have been following the 95 percent probability. 
   The next chart, this is from the Hirsch Report. I might digress for a moment to note what the Hirsch Report is. There have been two major studies that are financed by our government. One was financed by the Department of Energy and that was SAIC report. Dr. Hirsch, which is why this is called the Hirsch Report, Dr. Hirsch was the leading investigator on that, and this came out, oh, a year-and-a-half ago roughly. I think we will have some quotes from it a little later. But they looked at this situation, peaking of world oil production, impacts, mitigation and risk management. It is going to peak. What should we do about it, what can we do about it, is what was in this report. 
   This is one of the charts from this report, and these are USGS estimates of ultimate recovery. This is the F that I was talking about. They somehow changed it to P. But this is low, 95 percent; high, 5 percent; and the mean, or expected value, 3,000. 
   Just a word about what these numbers are. These are thousand gigabarrels. Now, we use gigabarrel because a billion in England, I understand, is a million million. A billion in this country is a thousand million. So if you are talking about billions, you may confuse some people. But apparently everybody knows what a giga is, and a giga is our billion. So we are talking about gigabarrels of oil. 
   So this is 2,248 gigabarrels of oil. That is about, what, 2,000 gigabarrels of oil. That, by the way, is roughly the amount of oil that most of the world's experts believe we have found, and we have used about half of that. We have used about 1,000 gigabarrels of oil, so there are about another 1,000 that we have yet to use. 
   But what this prognostication indicates is that we are going to find as much more oil, another roughly 1,000 gigabarrels to bring this 2 up to 3, we are going to find as much more oil as all the oil that is still left in the world. Now, that is conceivable. I think it is about as likely as winning the lottery. I don't think there is much probability of that happening. 
   But even if that was true, and that is the stunning thing that this chart shows, even if that is true, that only takes the peak out to 2016. That is just around the corner. That is 9 years away, even if that is true. 
   This is the power of the exponential function. One of the most interesting lectures I have ever heard was given by Dr. Albert Bartlett, emeritus, University of Colorado, no relative of mine. I wish he were. I wish I had some of his genes. He gives some fascinating explanations of the exponential function. One of them I think is worth spending just a moment on.  
   The story is told that chess was developed in an ancient kingdom, and the king was so pleased at the invention of chess that he asked the inventor to come in and he promised him any reasonable thing. And the inventor of the chess game said, O, king, I am a very simple person. I have simple needs. If you will just take my chess board and put a grain of wheat on the first square and two grains of wheat on the second square and four grains of wheat on the third square and eight on the fourth square and keep doubling until you have filled all of the 64 squares on my chess board, that will be reward enough. 
   The king said to himself, simple fellow. He could have asked for something meaningful, and all he has asked for is a few grains of wheat on a chess board. Of course, the king could not deliver, because it is my understanding that it would take the world's harvest today of a decade to fill the chess board. That is the power of exponential growth. 
   Albert Einstein was asked about what the next great power in the universe would be after the discovery of nuclear energy, and he said the most powerful force in the universe was the power of compound interest. 
   Well, Dr. Albert Bartlett's fascinating 1-hour lecture, and just do a Google search for Dr. Bartlett, Albert Bartlett and energy, and you can pull it up, and he has some very interesting illustrations in there. 
   He says the biggest failure of our industrialized society is the failure to understand the exponential growth. But even if we were to find as much more oil as all the oil that now exists, it would push the peak out to only 2016. 
   Now, if you use enhanced oil recovery and pump a lot of CO  
   2 down there and live steam and so forth, maybe you can push it out to 2037, but look what happens after that. Then you fall off a cliff, is what they say in this prognostication. 
   The next chart is an interesting chart from CERA. In an article entitled ``Undulating Plateau Versus Peak Oil,'' it says there is not going to be any peak. I looked at this, and, by golly, it looks like a peak to me. It goes up and then it comes down. 
   Now, they have several different assumptions in here, and they are pretty easy to sort out, I think. This is roughly that 2 trillion, the current known amount of oil; and if that is all the oil there is, they agree that the peak is pretty imminent. But they believe that we are going to find about as much more conventional oil as still exists in reserves. If that is true, then the peak moves out only this far. 
   Then they think we are going to get a lot of oil from the unconventional oil sources, like the Canadian tar sands and our western oil shales and the really heavy oil from Venezuela; and if we get that, then we are going to go up that high plateau. But this is still a plateau 
   I have 10 kids, 15 grandkids and 2 great grandkids. Wouldn't it be nice if we left a little energy for them? We are bequeathing them, not with my votes, but we are bequeathing them the largest intergenerational debt transfer in the history of the world. I would like to leave them a little energy, thank you, which is why I don't vote to drill in ANWR and I don't vote to drill offshore. I think there is a real moral element to this discussion. 
   If we are going to bequeath them this horrendous debt, which I think is immoral in itself, then I think it is doubly immoral that we give them a world from which we have raped all the readily available energy. Someone suggested in the future they may look back at what we have done and say to themselves, how could the monsters have done that? I hope that they won't be able to say that about this generation, because I hope that we will do better. 
   Well, this curve that they meant to repudiate, peak oil, I think confirms there will be a peak oil. 
   The next chart here is a statement from one of the experts in this field, Dr. Laherrere, and this is what he says. The USGS estimate implies a five-fold increase in discovery, to reverse the current trend, which is going down, and it is going to go up, a five-fold increase in discovery rate and reserve addition for which no evidence is presented. Such an improvement in performance is in fact utterly implausible, he says, given the great technological achievements of the industry over the past 20 years, the worldwide search and the deliberate effort to find the largest remaining prospects. 
   And we found a pretty big one just recently out in the Gulf of Mexico, under, what, 7,000 feet of water, roughly 30,000 feet of rock. If you notice, they aren't developing that yet. I am told, and not everything I am told is true because it is sometimes hard to get the correct facts, but I am told that they will start developing that when oil is $211 a barrel, because that is what it is going to cost to get it out of there. I am not sure whether that is true or not. 
   The next chart, I mentioned the oil chart that we showed before as being the single chart I would use if I had only one. If I was awarded two charts to use to talk about this, this would be the second one I would use, the upper part of it. This is a really revealing chart. 
   This goes back through about 400 years of, I generally say 5,000 years of, recorded history. Hyman Rickover referred to it as 8,000 years of recorded history. 
   I might digress for just a moment. I hope to come to the floor the 15th of this May to talk about a really, really interesting speech that Hyman Rickover, the father of our nuclear submarine, gave to a group of physicians in Saint Paul, Minnesota, 50 years ago the 15th of this May. 
   He notes that we have 8,000 years of recorded history. He said at that time, 50 years ago, we were about 100 years into the age of oil. This now introduces us to that age of oil. 
   It was introduced, of course, by the Industrial Revolution which started with wood, the hills of New England, the mountains that were denuded, taking charcoal to England to make iron. Up in Frederick County, which I have the honor of representing, there is Catoctin Furnace up there, which is a little smelter up there, and they denuded the hills up in Gambro where Camp David is. They denuded those hills to make charcoal for that furnace. It is now a historic site. The Industrial Revolution began with the use of wood. The Stanley Steamer used wood. 
   On the ordinate here is the quadrillion BTUs. This is a measure of the total amount of energy produced. Notice that is pretty far down here. Then we found coal. Boy, then the Industrial Revolution took off. But it really took off when we found gas and oil. And notice how that is standing up on end. And notice what happened at the Arab oil embargo here in the seventies.     
   Where would we be if that hadn't happened? That was really a wake-up call. As a result of that, we have enormously more efficient appliances than we had then. Your air conditioner is probably three times as efficient as it was then. Too bad our cars didn't follow that path, isn't it? 
   Well, the interesting thing is that the world's population just about followed this curve. For these 8,000 years of recorded history, we had half a billion to a billion people worldwide. Now with the industrial revolution, the population has exploded. We now have almost 7 billion people in the world. 
   There is, in Hyman Rickover's speech to those physicians 50 years ago, a fascinating discussion of the contribution of energy to the development of civilization. 
   I hope to come to the floor on May 15 and we will spend the whole hour talking about his speech. It was so prophetic. As a matter of fact, he predicted that if we start making too much energy from a food substance, the price of food will go up. We have made trifling amounts of ethanol from corn, and we have doubled the price of corn. We are hurting the poor people who use tortillas because they are made out of corn. My dairymen are financially dying because the price of corn has doubled and the price of milk does not justify that feed cost. They are losing money month by month. 
   Well, this is striking symbolism here. In another 100-150 years, we will be down the other side of the age of oil. This is going to fall off. 
   Is there any reason that the world shouldn't follow the microcosm of the United States? M. King Hubbert predicted in 1956 that we would peak in 1970. We did. He predicted the world would be peaking about now. If he was right about the United States, why  shouldn't he be right about the world, and why shouldn't we have been doing something about that? 
   Since 1980, we have known very well that M. King Hubbert was right about the United States. If he was right about the United States, maybe he would be right about the world. If it is true that the world's oil production would peak about now, then no matter what we do, drill a half million wells, like we drill in the United States, which would be millions worldwide, it still goes downhill no matter what we have done. Our production is downhill. 
   Very interesting, in 8,000 years of recorded history, the age of oil will be but a blip: 300 years. What will our world look like? Our next chart introduces us to that. 
   Sooner or later, whether we like it or not, we will transition from fossil fuels because they will one day be gone. We will transition from fossil fuels to renewables. This chart looks at the options that we have. We have some finite sources, and we need to come back for another hour and talk in detail about some of these finite sources that we have here and what their potential is, and then let the listener judge as to what contribution they think will be made from this. 
   One of the challenges we have is the fantastic density of energy in our fossil fuels. One barrel of oil has in it the energy equivalent of 12 people working all year long. Hyman Rickover gives some fascinating examples in his speech to those physicians nearly 50 years ago. He said that each worker in the factory had at his disposal the power equivalent of 244 men turning the wheels and so forth; that every family had the mechanical system, stoves and vacuum cleaners, toasters, that represented the work of 33 full-time faithful household servants. He said 100,000 men pushed your car down the road, and the equivalent energy of 700,000 men pushed a jet plane through the sky. 
   Two little examples to help realize this, just think how far one gallon of gasoline or diesel, how far that one gallon of gasoline or diesel takes you. I drive a Prius. It drives 50 miles on a gallon. How long would it take me to pull my Prius 50 miles? 
   If you go out and work really hard all day, I will get more work out of an electric motor for less than 25 cents worth of electricity. Now energy-wise electricity is about half the cost of gasoline, but about 25 cents worth of electricity, and that may be humbling to represent that you are worth less than 25 cents a day in terms of fossil fuel, but that is the reality. And that is why we have such an incredibly high standard of living, we have this incredible energy source at our disposal. 
   The challenge is to transition to renewable forms of energy that will provide the same quality of life. We have some finite resources that we can go through. The tar sands, the oil shales, the coal, nuclear fission, nuclear fusion. We don't have time today to talk about these in detail. We will come back and talk about those in detail. And then all of the renewables. These will one day be gone, except for nuclear. We will talk about nuclear. If we ever get fusion, we are home free. I think that is most unlikely. If we go to breeder reactors, we buy some problems, but then we have relatively secure energy if you can handle the waste, and so forth, from that. 
   But there are only so much tar sands, oil shale, and coal. They come at great expense. They are pretty polluting processes. Ultimately, we will be down here, getting all of our energy from these resources: Solar, wind, geothermal, ocean energy, agricultural resources, soy diesel, biodiesel, ethanol, methanol, biomass. 
   Now there is a lot of talk about cellulosic ethanol. I understand the President on television was saying that there is going to be limited amounts of energy we can get from ethanol because already we have doubled the price of corn. So now we need to turn to biomass, to cellulosic ethanol. 
   Cellulosic ethanol is liberating the glucose that is so tightly bound in the starch molecule that enzymes in our body can't liberate it, but there are microbes that live in the guts of the wood-eating cockroach, cryptocercus, and in the stomach of cows and sheep and goats and so forth that does that for them. So the cellulosic ethanol is liberating the glucose from the big cellulose molecule. 
   Waste energy. Just a word of caution, that huge stream of waste we have is the result of profligate use of fossil fuels. In an energy deficient world, there will be nowhere near as much waste as we have now. We jolly well ought to be using the waste energy now. It is a much better use of this waste than burying it in a landfill, but it will not be the ultimate solution to our problem. 
   Hydrogen. I want to make sure that everyone understands that hydrogen is not an energy source. We talk about it because when you burn it you get water that is pretty darn clean, and it is a great candidate for fuel cells, if we ever get fuel cells. Think of hydrogen as a battery, something to carry energy from one source to another. 
   We have only a few moments remaining, and I would like to put the last chart up. That will introduce us to a longer discussion we will have next time. 
   We are very much like the young couple whose grandparents have died and they have inherited a lot of money. They have established a lifestyle where 85 percent of the money they spend comes from their grandparents' inheritance, and only 15 percent from what they are earning. 
   Here we are getting 85 percent of our energy from fossil fuels and only 15 percent from anything else, and the fossil fuels are not going to last. The kids look at what they are doing and say gee, that is going to run out. We have to do something. Either we have to make more or use less. That is exactly where we are. 
   A bit more than half of all of this other than fossil fuel energy is nuclear power: 8 percent of total use in our country, 20 percent of electricity, it probably could and should be more than that, and then 7 percent. That is going to have to grow until it is 100 percent, but some don't have much potential for growth. 
   Conventional hydroelectric, that is peaked out. We will come back and spend a full hour talking about the potential of these. There are exciting challenges here, and I think it will inspire the best of America 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - December 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008. As ranking member of the Subcommittee on Seapower and Expeditionary Forces, I would like to thank the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr. Taylor), chairman of our subcommittee, for his wisdom and profound concern for the safety of our servicemembers and the security of the United States. 
   Further, I would like to recognize our chairman, Ike Skelton, and our ranking member, Duncan Hunter, for their continued leadership and support. This bill contains farsighted provisions which I believe are critical to this Nation's future security, none of which would have been possible without the steadfast advocacy of these visionary leaders. Thank you. 
   I also want to recognize the superb staff without whom this bill would not be possible. 
   There are a handful of provisions in every annual defense policy bill that stand apart in terms of their impact. This conference report is no different. This year the Congress has clearly established that it is the policy of the United States to utilize nuclear propulsion for all future major naval combatants. It is a vital step to secure our Nation's national and energy security. 
   Nuclear propulsion for naval ships is the right thing to do from economic, combat effectiveness, homeland defense, and energy policy perspectives. Without congressional action, budgetary pressures would forever prevent the Navy from making this farsighted commitment to its future. 
   Studies have consistently shown that life-cycle and operational costs are lower for nuclear propulsion in large combat vessels, such as cruisers. The most recent naval study shows that the break-even cost for a nuclear fueled cruiser is $60 per barrel of oil. It's now about $90. What's more, the National Petroleum Council projects future shortfalls in the supply of oil clear through 2030. 
   Last spring, a DOD Office of Force Transformation and Resources commissioned report found that the risks associated with oil will make the U.S. military's ability to rapidly deploy on demand ``unsustainable in the long run.'' It said it is ``imperative'' that DOD ``apply new energy technologies that address alternative supply sources and efficient consumption across all aspects of military operations.'' 
   Congress has responded. As recently as last year's Defense bill, Congress found that the Nation's dependence upon foreign oil is a threat to national security and that other energy sources must be seriously considered. It noted the advantages of nuclear power, such as virtually unlimited high-speed endurance, elimination of vulnerable refueling, and a reduction in the requirement for replenishment vessels and the need to protect those vessels. Congress directed the Secretary of the Navy to evaluate integrated power systems, fuel cells, and nuclear power as propulsion alternatives within the analysis of alternatives for future major surface combatants. 
   The Navy is conducting such an analysis for the next generation cruiser. However, in hearings this year, our subcommittee saw no evidence that the Department of Defense was seriously willing to consider making the investments required to enable that future. Quite simply, the conferees decided that we could waste no further time because these investments must begin to be made next year for the CG(X) next generation cruiser. Therefore, this conference report requires integrated nuclear propulsion for future major combatants. 
   This conference report reflects a fair and balanced treatment of the remaining issues facing the United States Navy and Marine Corps, and I respectfully ask full support for this very important bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, when the original resolution that brought our military to intervention in Iraq came to the Congress, I interpreted it as asking the Congress to turn over to the President our military to use anytime he wished, anywhere he wished, against any country he wished, now and forever more. 
   Feeling that this was patently unconstitutional, I was very pleased when the International Relations Committee, chaired at that time by Henry Hyde, revised the resolution and narrowly focused it on Iraq. That resolution had strong encouragement for the President to obtain a U.N. resolution so that when we went into Iraq it would be a part of a U.N. coalition. The U.N. would own that war; we wouldn't own it. 
   When the President did not get the U.N. resolution so strongly encouraged by that original resolution that we voted on, I then voted for the Spratt substitute because I felt that if we were going to send our young men and women into war, that it needed to be with the full support of the American people through their elected officials, and we needed to have that additional debate. That didn't happen. I felt that we went in with unrealistic expectations. 
   There is no country around Iraq that has anything like the government that we would like for them to have. Several of the countries have dictatorships. We call them royal families. Saudi Arabia, the Arab Emirates, Kuwait, but they are dictatorships. Several countries, Jordan and Syria, have kings. Iran is essentially a theocracy ruled by the mullahs. The only country that comes even close is the vestiges of the Ottoman Empire, Turkey, where they have a sort of democracy, but several times in the last few years the military has thrown out the civilian government, telling them they need to start over, hardly the kind of government that we have in this country and that we envision for Iraq. 
   So I thought that there were very unrealistic expectations. That was a very steep hill to climb; that success was unlikely, and therefore, I wanted to go in under a U.N. resolution. 
   What now? I hope I am wrong, but I believe that there will be one of two  likely outcomes, either another strong man, hopefully more benevolent, than Saddam Hussein, or three loosely federated states with an overarching entity that pumps the oil and distributes the revenues on a per capita basis. 
   Now, we have a resolution before us and how should one vote? If you believe that the President is the Commander in Chief and has a right to pursue the war in the way he chooses, then you would vote ``no'' on this resolution. 
   If you believe that this resolution sends the wrong message to the enemy that we are losing our resolution, our resolve, then you would vote ``no.'' 
   If you believe this sends the wrong message to the troops, I know the first clause says we support our troops, but then one might argue that the right hand is taking away what the left hand gave because in the second clause we say that we do not support the surge, which some may interpret as not supporting our troops; then you would vote ``no.'' 
   But if you believe that the Iraqis need to stand up so that we can stand down, then you would vote ``yes.'' 
   If you believe that the surge will not help, which is very likely, then I think you need to vote ``yes.'' 
   If you believe the surge might actually hurt by placing more of our brave young men and women in harm's way, I understand that a fair percentage of the violence over there is directed against us, if that is true, then how do we reduce the violence by putting more of us there, then you would vote ``yes.'' 
   If you want to send a message to the President, the Congress and the American people, that this war can't go on forever, then you would vote ``yes.'' 
   If you want to send a message to the troops that we are watching, that you won't be there forever, that you have the support of your citizens and your Congress, then you would vote ``yes.'' 
   This is obviously a very complex vote. Whether you vote ``yes'' or whether you vote ``no,'' there will be unintended, unwanted messages that will be sent. Being required to vote either ``yes'' or ``no'' on a resolution like this is a little bit like requiring the husband to answer the question, ``yes'' or ``no,'' ``Have you stopped beating your wife?'' 
   If that is true, then perhaps the best vote on this is a ``present'' vote. 
   It is so true here that what you see depends on where you stand. There has been a lot of quite intemperate rhetoric on both sides. It is hard sometimes to imagine that we are debating the same resolution. 
   It is so true here that he who frames the question determines the answer. 
   Mr. Speaker, we shouldn't be here. After the debate, this vote is somewhat irrelevant. Indeed, the listening Americans have each cast their own vote. In spite of all the divisive rhetoric, I want one thing to be certain, that all 435 of us want only what is best for America, what is best for our troops, a good and bright future for the Iraqis and especially want to assure our brave young men and women there that they have the total thanks of a grateful Nation.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PERSONAL EXPLANATION -- (House of Representatives - May 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Madam Chair, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1585. 
   First, I would like to take this opportunity to recognize the outstanding service rendered to the Nation by our men and women in uniform, who, like their forebears, are meeting today's security challenges with true dedication and professionalism. 
   I would also like to thank the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr. Taylor), chairman of the Seapower and Expeditionary Forces Subcommittee on which I serve as ranking member, for his leadership, for his friendship which I really appreciate, and unwavering commitment to our servicemembers. I also want to thank our very capable staff. 
   Madam Chair, I think our colleagues will find that this bill reflects a fair and balanced treatment of the issues facing the United States Navy and Marine Corps. In collaboration with the Air and Land Forces Subcommittee and Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member Hunter, we provided full funding for the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicle, or MRAP, which is protecting our troops against IEDs. 
   By strengthening the shipbuilding program and authorizing eight new ships, we addressed the Navy's number one and number two unfunded priorities. We must reverse the steady decline in the number of battle force ships we have seen for nearly two decades. 
   Nevertheless, in order to provide the number of ships our warfighters say they need, we must inject fiscal discipline into our shipbuilding program. To that end, H.R. 1585 includes a provision that would limit the practice of design and build concurrency, a practice which has delayed and increased costs for a number of shipbuilding programs. 
   Continuing efforts from prior years' Defense authorization bills, we have included a provision to push for modernization in shipyards through process, infrastructure improvements, and workforce training. 
   An April 2007 study commissioned by the Department of Defense found that the risks associated with the cost and supply of oil will make the U.S. military's ability to rapidly deploy on demand ``unsustainable in the long term.'' 
   H.R. 1585 also forges new ground by requiring that future major combatant vessels have integrated nuclear propulsion. 
   I conclude by applauding the remaining provisions in the bill supporting the Navy and Marine Corps and authorizing appropriations and authorities for the Maritime Administration. I urge full support of H.R. 1585. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (EMBRYONIC STEM CELL RESEARCH -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Madam Speaker, I come to the floor this evening to talk about embryonic stem cells. With all of the pressing issues of global importance that our country and the Congress is dealing with, you might ask, why are you going the talk about embryonic stem cells this evening; why are you not talking about the potential for global warming and what that might hold in store for our world.     
   We might be talking about the pending energy crisis and the concept of peak oil, and certainly we might be talking about the war in Iraq and the funding resolution that will shortly come before the House. Or we could be talking about a very interesting subject: the debt limit ceiling and why we have to increase the debt limit ceiling and what is that and how does it relate to the debt and the deficit and so forth? 
   We come to the floor this evening to talk about stem cells because a stem cell bill will very shortly come up in the Senate, perhaps even this week. Very probably if not this week, next week. But to put this in context, we have got to go back to last year when there were two embryonic stem cell bills that came before the House and the Senate. One of those started in the House and was known as the Castle-DeGette bill. This was a bill that would permit Federal funding for cells taken from embryos that were surplus in the fertility clinics across the country, and I understand there may be as many as 400,000 surplus embryos that are now frozen in these fertility clinics. This would result in the death of the embryo, and a meaningful percentage of our population does not believe that it is appropriate to destroy one life in the hopes that you might help another. So although this bill got a positive vote in the House last year, it was nowhere near enough to override a presidential veto. 
   There was a second bill that was introduced. I introduced that second bill along with my friend Dr. Gingrey, and that bill garnered 273 votes in the House. You might say that is enough to win, but it was brought up under suspension, which means we need two-thirds majority, and that day that would have been 286 votes; so we failed by 13 votes to get the necessary majority, the two-thirds majority, to pass it. 
   Both of those bills were our bills, the Senate 2754 and the House bill 5526. And along with the Castle-DeGette bill and the alternative bill, which would not result in the destruction of embryos, our bill got 100 percent of the Senators. That is, 100 Senators voting for the bill. It is interesting that there were 63 Senators that voted for both of these bills. They included Senator Arlen Specter, who introduced both of these bills in the Senate; and it also included Senators Reid, Harkin, Kennedy, Clinton, Obama, and Schumer. Those Senators voted for all of these bills. 
   We have now passed, essentially, the Castle-DeGette bill again in the House with 253 ayes and 174 noes, and that is nowhere near close to the number that it would take to override a presidential veto. And in the last Congress, the President vetoed the Castle-DeGette bill, and he has promised to and certainly will veto it this time should it get to his desk. This is the bill that the Senate will be voting on next week. So that is why we are on the floor today talking about this bill. By the way, our bill is 322, and it has been cosponsored so far by 34, truly bipartisan support for which I am very pleased. 
   I thought to begin this discussion of embryonic stem cells we might go back to the basic physiology of what we are talking about here. And the first chart I have here shows half of the reproductive tract in a woman. There is another half to this on the other side, a mirror image of this. Most things in our body are mirror images. Things like the liver are not and the stomach. We have two arms and two eyes, and the lady has two ovaducts and two ovaries and so forth. And this shows the stages of development of the embryo. And, of course, what we will be talking about is not what happens in the body but what happens in a petri dish in the laboratory. But the embryo goes through the same stages of development in the petri dish in the laboratory as it does in the ovaduct of the prospective mother. 
   Here we have the ovary, and it contains a very large number of primary cells, which when they develop will become ova. And once a month typically, every 4 weeks, typically, one of the ova matures and the little follicle then ruptures and the ovum comes out. And it is interesting that the ovary is not connected to the rest of the reproductive tract of the female. But there is a funnel-like thing, and we see only a part of the funnel here. This part and this part goes clearly around it. And it is called the infundibulum, and this process is called ovulation. The egg now is released from the mature follicle, and it is usually picked up by the infundibulum and directed into the ovaduct. On occasion it may not be and it may escape out into the body cavity or the celium, which simply means the cavity. And these sperm, millions of which were released in the uterus and they make their way into the fallopian tubes, and some of those sperm actually get out into the body cavity. And this egg that is not picked up by the infundibulum may be out of the body cavity and it may be fertilized by the sperm that gets there, and this is called an ectopic pregnancy. And it is very bad news for the mother and the embryo, and it has to be terminated with surgery. But usually, most of the time, the ovum is picked up by the fallopian tube and it begins its way down the fallopian tube. 
   Notice that fertilization takes place, and that is when the clock starts running, called DZero. Fertilization takes place well up into the ovaduct. And there is a several-day journey. You see them here, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, on down. And the fertilized egg now is called a zygote, and it begins to divide. And here you see it is at a two-cell stage, and a little later we will have some charts that show what can happen at this two-cell stage and even later. But frequently these two cells will simply separate until you have two cells that look like the original one you started with here, and that is what we called identical twins. Then they will make their way down the fallopian tube together and implant in an interesting way in the uterus as we will see later. And then the two cells divide and develop into four cells and then the four cells into eight cells. And we will come back and talk about this eight-cell stage because that is the time at which some procedures are done in the petri dish which promise that we can get true embryonic stem cells from embryos without harming the embryo. 
   Well, the cell then goes on to divide beyond the eight-cell stage. And you  now have a morula, a ball of cells which may be a fairly large number of cells, maybe 100 or fewer cells. And then it goes on to divide into a very large number of cells, and that is the gastrula stage. The morula and the blastula and then on to the gastrula down here. The gastrula stage develops into three germ layers. 
   The next chart shows a little more clearly what is happening. And here it started with a zygote and it skipped all of the stages that we talked about here, the two-cell, four-cell, eight-cell stage and so forth. And it goes directly now down to the blastocyst and then on down to the gastrula. And then the gastrula, we see the three germ layers developing. 
   And notice that most of what we have here is not going to end up as an embryo. What is going to end up as an embryo is this little bit of material here, and the rest of it is going to end up as supporting tissue, the amnion and the chorion and the fetal contribution to the placenta and so forth. But at this stage, just about the time the egg is implanting, as you saw, and by ``implanting'' we mean it connects itself to the uterus, this cell is implanting at about the time that the three germ layers are developed. 
   From these three germ layers will develop all of the tissues of the body. These three germ layers are called the outer germ layer, or the ectoderm; the middle germ layer, or the mesoderm; and the inner germ layer, or the entoderm. 
   From the ectoderm develops our skin, the integumen, which is defined as an organ. It is about the biggest organ in the body, actually, and a very complex and interesting one. And then the brain and spinal cord all of our nervous system develops from the ectoderm. 
   From the mesoderm develops most of the mass of our body, the muscles and the bones and the blood. Here you see the blood, which is a tissue that develops from the mesoderm. From the entoderm develops the lining of the gut and the lining of the lungs and so forth, although the mass of the entodermal tissue is nowhere near as large as the mesoderm and the ectoderm. In some organs they play a very essential role. 
   It is interesting that when you have a cancer and it metastasizes, it metastasizes usually only two tissues of common embryonic origin. What that means is that if you have a cancer on mesodermal tissue, when these cells break loose and float through the lymph system, it will metastasize only to tissues that develop from mesoderm. So it is very interesting that all through the life of the person, these tissues retain some of the original characteristics of these three germ layers. And the body cells, the T cells and so forth are programmed to know the difference between these body tissues. 
   I mentioned T cells. I shouldn't do that without explaining a little bit of what they are. Very early in our embryonic development, there are some unique cells that will end up in the blood. Some unique cells are developed, and they are now imprinted with who you are, and this is very early in development. And it is their role all through your life after that to keep track of who you are and identify any invader that is not you. So if a virus or a bacterium or something like that gets in, the T cells immediately detect that as being foreign and they now alert the leukocytes, which are the white blood cells, which have phagocytic, which means they can envelope and ingest. These organisms have phagocytic activity, alert them that that is an enemy and you need to take him out. And that is called our response system to infections and so forth. And, by the way, if you have a little pus pocket, that is the remains of thousands, maybe millions of these leukocytes that have come to do battle for you, and they have died in the process. But not to worry. Your bone marrow and lymph system are making a whole lot more lymphocytes. 
   Sometimes these T cells get confused, and it is not really clear to them what is you and what is not you. And sometimes they will falsely identify some of your tissues as being foreign to you, and then the leukocytes will come in and attack the other body defenses will come in and attack these tissues.     
   We refer to these diseases, and there are a whole long list of them, as being autoimmune diseases. I have one of those diseases, and many, many people have that. Some types of arthritis is an autoimmune disease. You have the arthritis because your T cells have inappropriately identified these joint tissues in your body as not being used, so they are now being attacked by the body defenses. 
   I want to look at just one more slide and then call on a colleague of mine, Dr. Gingrey, who has joined me in filing this bill. 
   This is a little illustration of what happens with monozygotic twins. Mono means one, and you saw what the zygote was. That is the fertilized ovum. Monozygotic twins, we call them identical twins. It begins with the fertilized egg, the zygote, the two-cell stage, then it may develop to two inner masses. Actually, the division can occur at the two-cell stage. The division, we have some reason to believe it can occur as the two inner cell mass stages. These will later develop into the three germ layers we talked about. 
   You can differentiate when that division occurred by how the babies present themselves at birth, whether they are in two amnions or in a common amnion. They, of course, should always be in a common chorion. The chorion is the big tough sac on the outside. The amnion is the thinner sac on the inside filled with the fluid called the amniotic fluid that protects the baby during its development. 
   I would like to note, by the way, that one of these two identical twins is a clone. I didn't think the sky was going to fall when we talked about cloning, because nature has been doing it for a very long time. But sometimes we should let nature do things and not mimic or interfere in what nature is doing, and I understand the concerns relative to cloning. But it is just of interest to note that nature has been doing this for a very long time. 
   Dr. Gingrey has joined us. Let me now yield to him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (EMBRYONIC STEM CELL RESEARCH -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Thank you very much. I am very appreciative of the contribution that Dr. Gingrey is making. Being a physician and having delivered a very large number of babies, he obviously brings a level of authenticity and credibility to this discussion. 
   On this chart, we have another couple of sequences which shows--the previous one we looked at showed the development of identical twins--this one shows the production of paternal twins. The mother may slough two eggs. As a matter of fact, with the in vitro fertilization, since we aren't sure that any one of them is going to be potent to implant properly, frequently the doctor will place several in the uterus and more than one may implant. I have a good colleague here, DANA ROHRABACHER, whose wife had three babies. That is nice. That gets the bottle feeding and diaper changing all over pretty quickly, doesn't it? 
   But this is what happens when the mother sloughs more than one egg naturally. Both of these eggs will be fertilized, because there are millions of sperm there, and they start to divide, and this is what is going down that little C-shaped fallopian tube in the uterus that we saw before. 
   Then at the blastula stage, it gets down to the uterus, and usually they will be somewhat separated and they will implant some little distance from each other, so when they present at birth the doctor will know immediately they are fraternal twins, because they have separate amniotic sacs and separate placentas, just two different babies, one attached to one side of the uterus and the other perhaps attached to the other side of the uterus. 
   But sometimes if they implant very close together in the uterus, they will develop with a fused chorionic sac which may mimic the single chorionic sac that is produced with identical twins. Then, of course, you will know whether they are identical or not, whether they look alike or not; and if you aren't really certain of that, you can do DNA to determine if they are identical twins.     
   Madam Speaker, President Bush appointed a council on bioethics to look at this whole embryonic stem cell debate. When he came to office, of course, money was being spent on a number of embryonic stem cell lines, and all of those stem cell lines were produced by destroying embryos, and the President was faced with a dilemma, was it right to take one life because when you destroy an embryo you are taking a life, to hopefully help another. His own personal ethics would not permit him to do this, so he set up a council on bioethics to determine were there techniques where one could get embryonic stem cells without killing embryos or harming embryos. 
   This is from page 25 in this white paper. It said, ``Thus, apparently normal children have been born following removal of one or two blastomeres from the six to eight cell embryo. However, long-term studies to determine whether this procedure produces subtle or later developing injury in children born following PGD,'' preimplantation genetic diagnosis, ``have been recommended and are sorely needed.'' 
   Well, maybe we need those studies, but I think nature through the years has conducted a very large number of studies for us. I want to show you this identical twin slide because in identical twins, half the cells of the embryo are taken away, and each half produces a perfectly normal child as far as we can tell, and it has been going on for roughly 8,000 years of recorded history. No one has ever suggested there is anything deficient in an identical twin. 
   As a matter of fact, when President Clinton appointed a commission to look at this, it was an identical twin who chaired the commission, and I asked him when he was on the Hill here if he felt less a person because he was only half the original embryo. Of course, that is a silly question because he certainly doesn't feel any less a person. But that is what many people  would have you believe. That somehow taking a cell or two from this early embryo, if you take two cells from an eight-cell embryo, the result will be three-fourths of a person because you took a fourth of his cells away. Well, no identical twin feels half a person because the other half of that original embryo produced his or her identical twin. 
   So one would be enormously surprised if this had any effect because, as I say, in 8,000 years of recorded history with millions and millions of identical twins produced, no one has ever hinted that there is any deficiency in an identical twin because they shared the cells from an original embryo with their mate. 
   It may be some time before stem cell lines can be reliably derived from single cells. These are the single cells that are taken out up here, extracted from early embryos, and in ways that do no harm to the embryo. 
   Now medicine has marched on, and as I will explain, we have the evidence that we can do this. The initial success of the Verlinksy group efforts raises the future possibility that pluripotent stem cells, which means the pluri is many. It is not totipotent. Totipotent is totally potent. That is the cell can produce anything and everything, including another embryo. 
   When I first started exploring this potential, I had the nagging concern that the single cell I took from that early embryo would be totipotent and what I was dealing with was just another embryo, in other words I was king of making identical twins. But I am very pleased that no one out there believes that the cells taken from the 8-cell stage are totipotent. 
   What this means is you shouldn't be able to get an identical twin from something beyond the 8-cell stage, and clearly you can, so there are some things going on here that we may not be totally familiar with. But there are a lot of things going on in the body that we can't explain. 
   As an example, if you remove part of your liver, and there are very few organs in the body that have this potential, but the liver will now regenerate what you have taken out. The question I have always asked myself, as long ago as 50 years ago when I first had these courses, no, 60 years ago now when I first had these courses, how did those cells in the liver know, millions of them, how did they know enough was enough, that the liver was now reconstituted to its original size so they could quit dividing. I have asked that question of current physiologists, and no one knows the answer to that. 
   And if you have a bone broken, in the healing process you have a callus developing on that bone. There is a thickening of the bone, and then gradually that is taken away and the bone is returned pretty much to its original shape. How do those cells know they have taken enough away? Or how do they know that they have developed enough of a callus to strengthen the bone until it is well calcified, until it is strong enough. 
   What we are going to be talking about is this and a number of other techniques that are included in the legislation that I talked about, H.R. 322, and the one that was passed in the last Congress. 
   The next slide shows some of the techniques that were reported by the President's Council on Bioethics as potentially offering the hope that we could get embryonic stem cells from an embryo without killing the embryo. 
   Our first depiction here is normal fertilization. The cells divide and grow in the mother. One of the last divisions is what we call a meiotic division. The usual division is a mitotic division. Before the mitotic division, the chromosomes divide so when the cells separate, each cell has the normal number of chromosomes called the diploid number, and the single unit of chromosomes is called the haploid number. 
   Well, obviously if you are going to have a human being who has the normal number of chromosomes, you have to end up with half as many of those chromosomes in the egg and half as many in the sperm, and that is accomplished by a process known as miosis. So in the egg and in the sperm cell, there are only the haploid number of chromosomes, only half the full complement of chromosomes, and they now join in the egg. There is quite a miraculous process that occurs there. There may be millions of sperms trying to fertilize the egg, but essentially instantaneously when one cell makes it into the egg, then the covering of the egg becomes absolutely impervious to any other sperm. If that wasn't true, you would end up with two sperm getting in, and then you would have triploid, or three, and that would be fatal for humans. Trisomy 21, for instance, is what happens to a human when just one of those chromosomes, mongolism, when only one of those chromosomes is three in nature, and sometimes that happens in the division of the cells, and that is called trisomy 21 or mongolism. 
   It is very interesting in plants that many replications of the chromosome, or polyploid, is a very beneficial effect. The flowers get bigger with better colors, and that is one of the things that plant breeders do is use a chemical to produce polyploid, bigger and better plants, and some that aren't any good but you can just discard them. That is how we have gotten many of miracle crops, by polyploid. 
   The second depiction here is of cloning. In cloning, you take an egg cell and you take the nucleus out of the egg cell so now you have an egg cell without a nucleus. And then you have a donor cell, and you can get the nucleus from this donor cell into the egg two different ways. One, you can fuse the two and the 
   nucleus will then migrate to the egg; or you can simply take the nucleus out of the donor cell and put it in the egg. 
   Now all of the controlling material in the egg is not in the nucleus. There are a number of cytoplasmic factors that control what the genes, what the chromosomes and the nucleus does. So this goes on to what appears to be a fairly normal birth. 
   In parthenogenesis, that is an interesting one, in parthenogenesis, miosis does not occur and the egg retains its diploid number of chromosomes and the egg goes on and divides. And some animals, by the way, reproduce by parthenogenesis. That rarely happens in humans. Some animals reproduce almost exclusively by parthenogenesis. 
   The next slide is another depiction of some of these same techniques, and it goes just a little further. Here we have the classical development and embryonic stem cell derivation. What they do here is when you get to this blastocyst area, you have two choices. One, you either implant it or freeze it to keep it for implantation later; or you destroy it and get your embryonic stem cells. This is classic technique for getting embryonic stem cells. This was the technique that the President had ethical concerns about which is why he issued his executive order which said that Federal money could be used to support research using the embryonic stem cell lines in existence at that time, what, 60 or more, now down to 20 or 22, and we knew that they would eventually run out, and now we are faced with a crisis because what do we do, these stem cell lines are running out. There is a big hope in the medical community that we can get some fairly dramatic cures from embryonic stem cells. 
   Here are embryonic stem cells from a single blastomere. This is what we have been talking about. You take a single blastomere cell from the embryo, and you can implant what is remaining. They have done that more than 2,000 times. They have done what is called a PGD. It started in England. There are a number of those labs in our country, and the parents would like to know whether or not their baby is going to have a genetic defect. 
   So they take a single cell out and they do a genetic diagnosis. If there is no genetic defect, they implant the remaining cells in the mother, and more than 2,000 times now we have had what appears to be a perfectly normal baby. Indeed, the big surprise would be if it wasn't a perfectly normal baby because in nature in producing normal identical twins, half the cells are taken away and nobody argues that identical twins are not normal people. 
   Then the process of nuclear transfer, and one of the techniques that is suggested here is a modification of that, modification of that cloning, and this is altered nuclear transfer. This is the modification. 
   In this one they make sure that you are not going to have a clone because they deactivate one of the genes. CDX2 I think it is called there. They deactivate one of the genes so that it will  simply develop into a cell mass with no organization. You can now get from that cell mass the cells that you wish, but there is no organization and it is not an embryo. You can see some obvious objections to this. You are just producing a freak and why would you want to do that to a perfectly normal zygote that you started with. 
   The next chart shows this altered nuclear transfer in a little more detail. We have seen this one before. Altered nuclear transfer is where you knock out the gene for normal development so when you have taken the nucleus from the egg and replaced that with a nucleus from the donor cell, you now have knocked out the gene in this nucleus for normal development, so you are simply going to get a growth of cells. It is not going to be an embryo, and there obviously some ethical questions about this, but this is being debated. 
   This is an oocyte-assisted reprogramming. What this says is that in the oocyte, and I mentioned the factors that are out in the cytoplasm, and if you intensify those and let them work, they will assist in this and it increases the genes for embryonic stem cell growth without producing an organized embryo. 
   And this is the technique which I suggested, embryo biopsy. I went to NIH way before the President issued his executive order, and having had a course in advanced embryology nearly 50 years ago, and recognizing what identical twins were, it occurred to me you ought to be able to take a cell from the early embryo without hurting the embryo.     
   I asked the NIH researchers when they had an open house out there one day while the President was making up his mind, and they invited Members of Congress and staff to come out. I do not remember any other Members of Congress. There was a lot of staff there. 
   I asked them should this not be possible? They said, well, it certainly should be possible. In fact, you know, it is certainly easier just to take the embryo and disaggregate, they call it. That means stir it all up. Disaggregate it and take your embryonic stem cells from what grows from that. 
   There is another interesting proposal of how to get embryonic stem cells without killing embryos. If you deal with in vitro fertilization, you produce a number of embryos and you have eight of them that you have thawed out and you are going to look at them to see which ones look strong enough to be fertilized to place in the woman. 
   There are some of these embryos that will not make it. They appear to be alive, but they will not go on and divide. So, in just a little while, they are going to decompose and die, and the proponents of this technique argue that they are a bit like the brain-dead person, that is, an individual that is not going to make it but the parts. We take body parts from brain-dead people for transplant. So they argue you ought to be able to get good cells from an embryo that is not going to divide any further. I have several slides, and I did not bring all of them, which show the criteria which are fairly reproducible and verifiable that the embryo is, in fact, dead--because you would not want somebody to say, gee, I think that embryo is going to die so I am going to take it because I would like to get a embryonic stem cell line from that embryo. 
   The next slide slow shows a bit of an expansion on this. Embryonic stem cell assisted reprogramming, and the acronyms, particularly DOD and much of the other professional societies have lots of acronyms. I guess that is so they appear more erudite and you cannot figure out what they are saying. 
   Differentiation using cell proteins, this is the assisted development I mentioned because this cell suite, this is from the cytoplasm, and this contains factors that controls what happens in the nucleus. They turn on genes and turn off genes and so forth during the development of the embryo. You can modify that. 
   Differentiation, a new term, should not use these terms without describing what they are. When you start out with the cell mass and the developing embryo, so forth, those cells are undifferentiated, they are all the same. They then begin the differentiation process where you have an ectoderm, a mesoderm, and an intaderm. Then it goes on to differentiate from that. You can get bone from mesoderm. You can get muscle from mesoderm. You can get blood cells from mesoderm. So the differentiation goes on from that. 
   Then there are postnatal tissues, and these are the tissues from which we can get adult stem cells. It might be worth just a moment to mention the dialogue that is going on between the enthusiasts for adult stem cells and the proponents of embryonic stem cell research. 
   Most of the medical applications have been made from adult stem cells, and that is because we have been working with adult stem cells for more than 3 decades. It just takes a while for something to go from the laboratory to the hospital, and we have had that time for the adult stem cells. We have not had that time for embryonic stem cells because we have been working on them for only a few years. 
   Now, this permits some people who are very zealous for protection of the embryo to say, gee, we really should not be looking at embryonic stem cell research because all of the contributions so far have been from adult stem cells and so, therefore, why would you want to go this route because presumably all the applications in the future are also going to come from adult stem cells. 
   That may be true but I will tell you that there is nobody that I know of in the professional community who believes that that ought to be true. These embryonic stem cells may be like the rambunctious teenager. They can be somewhat uncontrollable, and in some of the early experiments, they have gone on to produce cancers and growths and so forth, and who knows what the ultimate will be. 
   But I will tell you, and you know from what you see in the papers and hear on television and so forth that there are a number of people who believe that diseases like Parkinson's disease and diabetes and spinal cord injuries and so forth could maybe be cured with the application of embryonic stem cell research and medical developments. 
   It is true that theoretically, philosophically, there ought to be more applications from embryonic stem cells just because of what they are. They are pluripotent cells. They can make any and every cell in the body. We have some adult stem cells, and we generally get them from the bone marrow, the blood, and there are stem cells with a variety of blood cells that are produced and you can sometimes trick them into believing they are not what they are so they can also make some other tissues. 
   The next slide shows the little schematic on the dead embryo, and what this shows is that you can tell--and these are reproducible and verifiable--you can tell that an embryo is probably--well, not probably--is not going to make it, and then the argument is that you ought to be able to take cells from that embryo ethically. Of course, the other argument would be if the embryo is about to die, why would I want a stem cell line from cells that are suspect. 
   Clearly, clearly, if we can make the altered nuclear transfer work, where you can take the donor cell which is a cell from the patient, if you can make embryonic stem cells from that, that is the route we want to go because then the organ you are making, whatever you are making for that person, is going to be them, and you can implant it in them. There is not going to be any rejection. If it comes from any other source, you are going to have a rejection phenomena, but we have developed clinical 
   techniques for handling that. There are lots of people with organ transplants, and they lead productive, comfortable lives for quite a number of years. 
   When I first started this discussion, we conferenced with a lot of individuals, and one of those was a representative of the Conference of Catholic Bishops. Sometimes in life, you see something or somebody says something, you say to yourself, gee, why did I not think of that; it is so obvious and so right and so productive. That happened in this dialogue. 
   We were talking about taking cells from the early embryo that would not hurt the embryo, but then you get the idea that, gee, it might. You can make  the argument and certainly should not because you can take half the cells away in identical twins and obviously it has not hurt the embryo at all, so why should taking a cell out of the embryo make any, yeah, I know, but it just might. So you need to do some work with that to make sure it does not hurt the embryos. There is always an outside chance that the person lives to be 90 and they determine some defect that was as a result of taking the cell out earlier. 
   So the suggestion was made by Mr. Dortlinger that, gee, the first thing you do with that cell you take out is to make a repair kit. Wow, why did I not think about that? It is obviously such a right thing to do. What you do to that cell now is to make your replacement, which by the way is what parents are hoping to sort of do when they freeze umbilical cord blood. Now, those are not embryonic stem cells in umbilical cord blood. They are adult. So when the baby is born it is an adult. As a matter of fact, the day you are born is the day you start to die. Things start to go downhill from the day you are born. So these are adult stem cells, but they have characteristics that may be more amenable to alterations, to modifications than adult stem cells taken from a 50-year-old. 
   By the way, there has been a new technique which some heralded, now we do not need to think about embryonic stem cells because you can take amniotic fluid, and as the baby is growing from the earliest stages on, but it has to be in amnion before you can get these cells in the amniotic fluid. You can get some embryonic stem cells there, and so a big push was made, gee, let us stop talking about embryonic stem cell research because now we have got these stem cells from amniotic fluid. 
   But the person who discovered that made the observation that this was complementary to embryonic stem cells and should not be considered in place of embryonic stem cells. It is certainly a good place to get cells that are more easily reprogrammed to believe that they are not what they are at that stage of development, but he said that it should be considered complementary to embryonic stem cells and not in place of stem cells. 
   Well, the Senate is going to vote on this in a few days now; that is, they are going to vote on the Castle-DeGette bill. It will certainly pass, and I think they are voting on exactly the same bill. So it does not even need to go to conference. It will then go to the President, and the President will do what he did in the last Congress. He will veto the bill. 
   So here we will be with only a few embryonic stem cell lines running out. They are all contaminated with mouse feeder cells, and so they may or may not be amenable to actual therapy, but in any event, these stem cell lines do run out. With the enormous potential that many people believe embryonic stem cells have, we will be in a situation where there is only a few embryonic stem cell lines which are running out and a public out there which is demanding and they come to our office. One of those compelling things are these kids with this big thing in their body like a hockey puck which is pushing insulin because they have juvenile diabetes, and they are very brittle and they have to trickle that in little by little during the day to maintain the status quo. 
   So here we will be with embryonic stem cell lines running out, with a cry from the public and the professional part of the public that we need to move on with this. My hope is that when the President has vetoed this bill, the Castle-DeGette bill, he will, he did last time and he will again, that then they pass our bill which was passed 100-0 in the Senate last year, by 273 votes in this House. In fact, they got more votes than the one that is being sent on to the President from this House. So, hopefully, that bill will come up next and can move to the President's desk, and he will certainly sign that bill and we can get on with ethical embryonic stem cell research. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would hope that all of our listeners out there who have a Representative that they believe may not be supportive of this, would they please contact that Representative and urge them to support this bill. It will provide ethical embryonic stem cell research. Neither I nor any of the others know what the ultimate result of this will be, but I will tell you the potential for clinical cures and application because of embryonic stem cells being what they are has to be greater than adult stem cells. 
   Mr. Speaker, let us hope that we can move this clock very quickly because there are a lot of people out there that need this kind of help. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Chairman, I strongly encourage my colleagues to support the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009. As ranking member of the Seapower and Expeditionary Forces Subcommittee, I applaud the efforts of Chairman Taylor and his staff who have done an excellent job of meeting the needs of our sailors, aviators and marines. 
   I also want to thank my staff who did a great job. They helped prepare this statement and so they modestly did not include themselves. Thank you, staff, very much. 
   The bill accelerates the planned refueling complex overhaul of the USS Theodore Roosevelt. It fully funds the next generation carrier, the fiscal year 2009 Virginia class submarine and provides procurement for a second Virginia class submarine in both fiscal years 2010 and 2011. The bill also authorizes two T-AKEs and two Littoral combat ships. 
   There are several areas where the committee disagreed with the President's budget requests. For example, the bill would not allow the Navy to terminate the LPD-17 production line. The bill would slow the pace of the DDG 1000 destroyer program while providing the Navy with the flexibility to reevaluate its options for service combatants and reduce risk for the next generation cruiser. 
   On the aviation side, the bill continues to support the alternative engine for the Joint Strike Fighter. It also provides additional funding to address emergent P-3 aircraft repair issues.     
   With regard to Marine Corps programs, the chairman and I share concerns and the same goals about the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle and its survivability. The Marine Corps has responded to our concerns by making design changes that will improve its survivability by 50 percent over the baseline. But I believe that more can be done. I have asked the chairman if we can continue to examine this bill's proposed $40 million cut to the EFV program to ensure we achieve this important goal. 
   The bill extends the committee's prior work to expand nuclear propulsion for shipbuilding. Last year, we required the Navy to include integrated nuclear propulsion for the next generation cruiser. This year, the bill would require that future amphibious assault vessels also include nuclear power. 
   The Navy's 2007 study on alternative energy for ship propulsion indicated that the break-even price for nuclear propulsion for amphibious ships was a market price of $178 per barrel of oil. We're creeping up to that number. Oil hit a new record of $133 a barrel today. 
   Finally, Mr. Chairman, I would like to note that several of our colleagues, all three of them sitting in the Chamber in front of me, are retiring at the end of this Congress. My very good friend, DUNCAN HUNTER; good friend, JIM SAXTON; and my classmate, TERRY EVERETT, thank you all very much for what you have done for your country, for our servicemen and -women. You have my deepest respect and gratitude. 
   Mr. Chairman, I ask my colleagues to support this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - November 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, today oil's about $93 a barrel. It was higher than that a couple of days ago. If you look at CNBC, they're still scrolling it in red which means it's kind of out of previous limits. 
   There are two bills before the Congress, and I want to mention those before we start. These would be pretty good bills if we were offering them 25 years ago, but this is not 25 years ago. And I would submit that these bills are woefully inadequate to address the challenges that we have today. Let me just mention briefly what's in these bills, and I will note and I hope you will agree after we've spent these few minutes together that these bills do little more than nibble at the margins of the problem. 
   Our children, our grandchildren looking back on today will wonder how could we ever have thought that these bills would address the enormous challenge that we face today in energy. 
   H.R. 3221, the House-approved omnibus energy bill, which they say promotes efficiency and renewable energy, it includes a controversial renewable portfolio standard and a net tax increase, but it excludes increases in CAFE standards, the standards that we set for how many miles per gallon you're going to get from your car or your pick-up truck, and it also excludes mandated volume increases in biofuels. 
   Now, the Senate bill does quite the opposite. It increases CAFE standards and a mandated volume increase in biofuels, but excludes a renewable portfolio standard and the tax provisions. 
   Now, President Bush wisely has indicated that he's going to veto either one of these bills, or a combination of these bills that might come out of conference. 
   I note these two bills before we begin our discussion because I hope you will agree with me when we have finished our discussion that they might have been pretty good bills to start down the road that we should have been traveling for 25 years, but they're woefully inadequate to meet the challenges of today's world. 
   Here we have a chart which I think kind of says it very well. Here is the fellow standing by the very shrunken gas pump here because our supplies are down. He has a huge SUV beside him. He asks, ``Just why is gas so expensive?'' Gas is expensive because the demand is exceeding the supply. As a matter of fact, the world production of oil has now held constant for about 30 months, but the world's demand for oil has been steadily going up. So if you look back over the last 30 months, the price of oil has been doing exactly what you would suspect the price of oil has been doing. It's been going up because the supply has been constant and the demand has been going up. 
   Mr. Speaker, it was absolutely inevitable that today or some day like today near this date in history that we would be here talking about $95 oil.     
   If you listen to the experts out there, they are telling you that they expect, in the next few days, that it will go through $100 per barrel. 
   The next chart is one that kind of puts this in perspective. Let's just refer to the upper chart. The upper chart looks back through only about a little less than 400 years. But if we extended this on to the left here about another 7,000 years, we would have gone through all of the recorded history of man, and it would look just like it looks here. In this scale, the amount of energy that we were using in 1630 and 1650 is hardly wider than a line, so it's hard to distinguish the baseline here from the energy that we were producing. 
   Then the Industrial Revolution started, and it started with the steam engine and that sort of thing and wood, of course. That's the brown line there. Then you see that we found coal and, boy, we produced a lot more energy with coal, so the Industrial Revolution roared on. It was stuttering when we discovered oil. Boy, then did it take off. Just look at that curve and how sharp that curve is. 
   If we had another curve here on population increase in the world, it would mirror this, follow this pretty exactly. For thousands of years, through 8,000 years of recorded history up until fairly recent history, the population of the world was somewhere between half a billion and 1 billion people. Now that population has exploded until there are nearly 7 billion people in the world. By the way, nearly 2.5 billion of them are in India and China. 
   Notice one other thing about this curve. Look what happened back in the 1970s. The oil price spike hikes of the 1970s, where oil was less, even with inflation correction oil was less than it is today, it still resulted in a world-wide recession with sufficient demand destruction that the production of energy decreased for several years. Now we are back on a big upswing slope again. 
   The next chart has some data that was used by 30 of our prominent Americans, Boyden Gray and Woolsey and McFarland and 27 others, among them a number of Four-Star Admirals and Generals, retired, and they wrote a letter to the President, and this was several years ago. They said, now, Mr. President, the fact that we have only 2 percent of the known reserves of oil in the world and we consume 25 percent of the world's oil and import just about two-thirds of what we use is a totally unacceptable national security risk. We really have to do something about that. 
   Two other data points here which are of interest, one is that although we have only 2 percent of the world's oil reserves, we produce 8 percent of the world's oil. Now, you don't have to be very far along in arithmetic in grade school to understand that if that's what's happening that we are now exploiting our oil reserves four times faster than the rest of the world. 
   So if there comes a time when the well will run dry, you would expect that our wells would run dry before the average well in the rest of the world, because we are pumping our oil four times faster. 
   Note, also, this says 5 percent of the world's population, we are a bit less than that. We are one person out of 22 in the world, and we have a fourth of all the good things in the world. The subject for another discussion is why. What's so special about the United States that this one person out of 22 is so fortunate that we have a fourth of all the good things in the world? 
   The next chart is a really interesting one. This chart shows what the world will look like if the size of the country was relative to the amount of oil that it had. Now, the colors here indicate how much energy you are using and the size indicates how much energy you have. 
   What this shows is that the countries which have the least energy are using the most energy. 
   But notice that Saudi Arabia here totally dominates the world. About 22 percent, almost a fourth of all the known reserves of oil in the world are in Saudi Arabia. There is Iraq and little Kuwait. Saddam Hussein thought that looked like a corner province in Iraq, and, indeed, if you look in the map, it is tiny compared to Iraq, but it has just about as much oil as Iraq. 
   Iran, notice how big Iran is there. 
   Look over here at the United States. We are dwarfed. We have only 2 percent of the world's supply of oil. The people we get most of our oil from are Canada and Mexico. Gee, they aren't very big either. Look at Venezuela, Hugo Chavez, huge, would swallow up the United States several times with its oil reserves.  
   Something I would really like you to note is the size of China and India. Between the two of them, they don't have as much oil as the United States, and they have about 2.5 billion people between the two of them. 
   Now, as a result of this disparity between how much oil they have and how big their population is, the next chart will show us what China has been led to do. This is a map of the world which shows where a number of people have staked their claim, that is, own oil reserves. Notice in how many parts of the world the symbol for China appears. 
   This chart is a little old, and at the time we started using this chart, China was dickering to buy Unocal, an oil company in our country. Well, a lot of people thought that was just awful. I didn't think the sky would fall if they did that, because the reality is in today's world it doesn't really matter who owns the oil. We own an absolute trifling amount of oil in the world. 
   The fellow who owns the oil and the fellow who comes with the dollars, and if, by the way, if the currency ever changes from dollars to Euros, that will be a tough day for our country, but the person who has the dollars gets the oil. So you might ask why is China buying up all this oil. 
   I asked the State Department that question, and they told me it's because they don't understand the economic realities. They don't really understand that it doesn't matter who owns the oil, that the person who has the dollars buys the oil. My response was, gee, it's a little hard for me to believe that a country of 1.3 billion people, which is growing for the last quarter, I saw data, 11.4 percent, we never grew at anything like that. Japan in its heyday didn't grow anything like that. A country growing 11.4 percent that doesn't understand economics is hard for me to believe. 
   You may note at the same time they are buying up this oil they are aggressively building a blue water navy. They don't have one. Blue water navy is one that goes out in the deepest waters. We are the only one in the world the Chinese are competing with. 
   Could it be that they envision a time when there won't be enough oil to go around, and since they own it, they are going to say to the rest of the world, gee, guys, I am sorry, there is not enough oil to go around, and we have 1.3 billion people and so we are going to use it. To make that stick, they are going to need a really big navy to protect their sea lanes. Only the future will tell. 
   I led a codel of nine people to China talking about energy. It was over last New Year's. I spent last New Year's Eve, as a matter of fact, in Shanghai. They began their discussion of energy there by talking about post oil. Wow. They get it, and I wonder why very few people in our country get it. 
   They have a five-point program. The first step in their program is the first step in any rational program to address the challenge we face, and that is conservation. The second and third points in their program was get as much of it as you can from your own country and diversify as much as you can. 
   The fourth one may surprise you, because they pled for protection of the environment. They are the biggest polluters in the world, and they know that. They are kind of pleading for help, because, gee, we have got 1.3 billion people, 900 million of those in rural areas that are clamoring for the benefits that accrued through industrialization. We have got to really do something about that, and help us to be more efficient. 
   But the fifth point in their five-point program was a really interesting one. They are pleading for international cooperation. 
   As they plead for international cooperation, which they hope they get, I doubt that they will, but they have a backup, they are going to buy the oil so that if we don't get international cooperation, at least they have a go-it-alone reasonable probability of doing well in the 
   future. 
   The next chart shows how we got here, and this tells you why I mentioned the 25 years. It's actually 27 years. 
   In 1956, a Shell Oil geologist by the name of M. King Hubbert, and if you haven't heard his name before, you will hear it, and I think that the speech he gave 50 years ago last year, I think it was the 8th day of March, to a group of oil executives and engineers and scientists and so forth in San Antonio, Texas. When the United States was king of oil, producing more oil, exporting more oil, I think, than any other country, M. King Hubbert told that group that in just 14 years, by 1970, we were going to reach our maximum oil production. No matter what we did after that time, it was going to go down. 
   Shell Oil Company asked him, please don't give that speech. You are going to make a fool of yourself and us. He became something of a pariah for a number of years and was relegated to the near-lunatic fringe. 
   But right on schedule, as this chart shows, in 1970 we peaked in oil production. He predicted that here in 1956, and in 1970 we peaked in oil production. 
   His prediction was only for the lower 48. We got a bunch of oil in Prudhoe Bay in Alaska and a lot of oil in the Gulf of Mexico, where, by the way, we have drilled more oil wells than in all of Saudi Arabia, four times as many as in all of Saudi Arabia. 
   It has been downhill ever since 1970 except for a little blip produced by the enormous amount of oil that we got from Prudhoe Bay. I have been there. I have seen that pipeline where it begins, a 4-foot pipeline. 
   For a number of years a fourth of our total domestic production went through that. Despite that enormous find, it's still down, down, down, and today we are producing half the oil that we produced in 1970. 
   Remember several years ago those fabled oil discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico which were supposed to secure our future? There it is. That's what it did. Pretty trivial, wasn't it. 
   The next chart shows an attempt of one of the major think tanks in our country on energy to debunk M. King Hubbert. This us the Cambridge Energy Research Associates, and they present this data, which they say proves that M. King Hubbert didn't know what he was talking about. 
   Now, if you were a person who dealt with numbers, a statistician, you might see some relevance in that argument. But for the average citizen, this is what you see in the chart. 
   The yellow symbols here are the predictions of M. King Hubbert. The green is the actual lower 48 production. 
   Now, he said that it would follow this curve, but it actually followed that curve. Cambridge Energy Research Associates said, gee, isn't that awful, he really missed it, didn't he. I think for the average person looking at that, I am a kind of a layman here in this area, but I am a scientist and I have had courses in statistics, that looks pretty darn close to me. I think he kind of got it, didn't he. 
   The actual total production, when you add the Gulf of Mexico and Alaska, these red symbols here, and if you add the next chart, if you only had one chart to talk about energy, this would be the one, because this tells you so much. 
   If ever a picture is worth 1,000 words, this one is. This shows the discoveries of oil. We were discovering lots of it very early, the 1940s, 1950s, huge, huge amounts in the 1960s and 1970s. At just the time when M. King Hubbert predicted we would reach our maximum oil production, 1970, here, we just previously had found enormous amounts of oil. 
   During those 14 years, 1956 here to 1970, we had found more oil than we ever found before and ever found after that. No wonder, gee, they thought this guy must be an idiot. 
   But right on schedule we peaked in 1970. By the way, just a little explanation of how he was able to do that. He had observed that each oil field followed a pretty constant kind of curve. The oil was easier and easier to pump until you pumped about half of the oil. 
   Then you reach the maximum production, it's reasonable. The last half would be harder to get, so it came out slower and slower. It kind of followed a bell curve. He rationalized if he knew how many oil fields there were and what was in there, he could have all the little bell curves, and you would get a big bell curve that would tell us when we were going to reach the peak. He said that was going to be 1970. Right on schedule it happened. He also said that we were going to reach peak oil, the maximum production of oil in the world about now.     
   Now, the question I've been asking for 30-some times I've been on the floor  here talking about this, over the last couple of years is, if M. King Hubbert was right about the United States, why shouldn't he be right about the world? And why shouldn't we have been paying some attention to this? 
   I was interested in this subject probably 40 years ago. I knew that oil couldn't be forever. I mean, you know, the Earth isn't made out of oil; it's not going to last forever. At that time I had no idea how long it would be before we had to start being concerned about oil. Was it next year, 10 years, 100 years, 1,000 years? But I knew at some time we would need to be concerned about oil. Apparently, that time has come. 
   Well, the solid black line here indicates our consumption of oil. It also represents our production of oil, because there's no big stockpile of oil somewhere unused, so what we produce is what we use. So it's either the consumption curve or the production curve. 
   If we were to put a smooth curve over these discoveries, and there we have little bars for each year, it's obvious that what you've done is to add up all of the discoveries year by year. So the area under that curve, for the person who doesn't understand what integration is, the area under that curve represents the total amount of oil we've found; so much this year and this year and this year. And the area under the curve adds them all up. 
   Now, the area under this black curve here is going to indicate how much oil we use. Now, it's really obvious that you can't use oil that you haven't found. So the area under the consumption curve is going to have to be the same thing as the area under the discovery curve. 
   But look at what's been happening to discovery since, what, before 1970. It's been down, down, down, down, down, down. The lightly shaded part of this graph to the right is just a guess as to what's going to happen in the future, but an absolute certainty is that you're not going to pump oil that you haven't found. 
   Now, ever since the 1980s here, we have been pumping more oil than we've found, so this area here now has consumed reserves that we found in the past. So we have all this amount of reserves that we can use in the future. That represents the area under this curve. 
   They're predicting here that we will have ever less and less discovery. It won't be that nice smooth curve. It will be up and down. But on the average, that's what it should be because that's what it's been. 
   And by the way, for the past 20 years or so we have had incredibly improved techniques for finding oil. So for those of who tell you not to worry, it's out there, where? We've been scouring the world for the last 20 years with computer modeling and 3-D seismic, and our discovery has been down, down, down. And these people are wisely projecting that's probably what it's going to do for the future. 
   There's another chart here, and this is another chart from CERA, Cambridge Energy Research Associates. And they are predicting that we're going to find two and three times as much more oil as all the recoverable reserves that we now know are there. And even if that is true, it moves the peak out only a relatively few years. This is the curve, if we don't find any more than that previous chart showed. 
   Most of the experts in the world believe that the total amount of oil that we have pumped and will pump is somewhere in the category of 2 trillion barrels. We've pumped about a trillion, we have about another trillion to pump, more or less. So the peak, if that is so, is imminent, isn't it? 
   If we find 2.93 total, wow, that's another trillion barrels of oil. It pushes out only that far. And they say we're going to add some unconventional oil. That we will. And so they, and this was in an article that was debunking peak oil, and this was a major chart in that article and, by golly, it shows a peak. They say it will be an undulating plateau. I agree. I don't agree that it's going to be out there another 50 years, but I agree that it's going to be an undulating plateau. 
   The next chart is an interesting little exercise. And this is from EIA, our Energy Information Agency, which, by the way, does a really good job of tracking the use of energy. And it has done a pretty poor job of projecting how much energy we're going to find, because this was their projection. These are the discoveries of oil. 
   Remember that previous bar chart? These are the big spikes, the discoveries of oil. And they, really misinterpreting some data from USGS, predicted three different possible paths here. There was an F for frequency in the USGS data, and somehow that got translated to P for probability when it came to this chart. I have no idea how you'd do that, and I have had a course in statistics, so I understand a little about that. 
   But they said that the 50 percent probability was the mean and that that is the most probable thing that would happen. Therefore, the discoveries of oil were going to go up. 
   This is the 95 percent probability. If it's truly a probability, obviously, if you're 95 percent more certain than 50 percent, and this is the 5 percent; by the way, there should be another green line here and another blue line here because it's a little bit like the path of the hurricane. It's pretty tight today, but where it's going to be a week from now you're less certain, so it kind of fans out. So that's what these 50 percent and 5 percent represent. 
   But notice where the actual data points have been. The actual data point have, as one might suspect, followed the 95 percent probability because 95 percent probable is more probable than 50 percent probable. 
   The next chart is a chart from a report and I'm going to mention in just a moment four major studies that have been done, and I have a number of quotes from those. Because what I'm saying today is based on not just my perception of what's going on, but the reality as indicated in these four different studies. 
   This is EIA projections. And if we found as much more oil as all the known reserves of oil today, that is going from roughly the 2 trillion to 3 trillion barrels of oil. That will push the peak out only from here to 2016. 
   And this shows another interesting thing. If we get really good at enhanced oil recovery, and we drill a lot of wells and we suck it out faster, we might move the peak over to 2037. Then you fall off a cliff; because you can't pump what's not there. 
   Now, enhanced oil recovery will get a little more, but it may get it a lot faster. There will be some additional oil pumped from enhanced oil recovery, but it will not be a huge amount. 
   Now, I want to go through a number of quotes from five different sources actually. One of those is a very famous speech given by Hyman Rickover, the father of our nuclear submarine. He gave this speech 50 years ago, the 14th day of this May, in St. Paul, Minnesota, to a group of physicians. He was incredibly prophetic in that speech. There's a link on our Web site to that that you can simple do a Google search for Rickover and energy, and this speech will pop up. I will tell you, it is the most interesting speech that I have ever read. You'll be fascinated by it. 
   Just a quote from this speech: ``Whether this golden age,'' and boy is this a golden age, and he notes in this speech, by the way, that the amount of energy that we have available to us represents a huge amount of people working for us. The energy in a single barrel of oil represents the work of 12 people working all year. 
   When I first saw that, I said, it can't be. But then I thought of how far that gallon of gasoline or diesel, by the way, still cheaper than water in the grocery store, how far that takes my Prius, I drive a Prius, takes my Prius nearly 50 miles. How long would it take me to pull my Prius 5 miles? I could do it. If it was on the level, I might strain and do it very slowly. If it was uphill, I'd have to have you come along to do it. But how long would it take me to pull my Prius 50 miles? An incredible amount of energy. This is indeed a golden age, this age of oil. 
   He noted that every housewife 50 years ago had available to her the work equivalent of 34, I think he said, faithful household servants. I think it was 700 manpower efforts push your airplane through the sky, and 100,000 the train down the track and so forth. 
   ``Whether this golden age will continue depends entirely upon our ability to keep energy supplies in balance with the needs of our growing population.  Possession of surplus energy is, of course, a requisite for any kind of civilization, for man possesses merely the energy of his own muscles. He must expend all his strength, mental and physical, to obtain the bare necessities of life. A reduction of per capita energy consumption has always in the past led to a decline in civilization and a reversion to a more primitive way of life.'' 
   The next quote is another one from Hyman Rickover: ``High energy consumption has always been a requisite of political power. The tendency is for political power to be concentrated in an ever smaller number of countries. Ultimately, the nation which controls the largest energy resource will become dominant. That control today is represented by having the necessary dollars to purchase it. Tomorrow it may be indicated by who, in fact, owns the oil fields. If we give thought to the problem of energy resources, we act wisely and in time to conserve what we have and prepare well for necessary future changes. We will ensure this dominant position for our own country.'' 
   I would submit that we have done none of this. We have not acted wisely. We have not anticipated today. And it was absolutely inevitable that there would come a day when the supply of energy would be inadequate to meet the demands for energy, which is why it's roughly now 93, $95 a barrel. 
   There have been four studies paid for by our government. And much to my chagrin, they have pretty much ignored what all four of these studies have said. One of those was a study done for the Army by the Corps of Engineers. 
   Now, these were published just September of 2005, just a couple of years ago. There's another quote from him in just a minute. It's really interesting. Jean La Harerre made an assessment of the USGS report, that's the report we were looking at just previously that said we were going to find as much more oil as all the oil that we now knew existed which is recoverable in the world. And this was what Jean La Harrere, he's a French expert in this area, said: The USGS estimate implies a fivefold increase in discovery rate and reserve addition, for which no evidence is presented. Such an improvement in performance is, in fact, utterly implausible, given the great technological achievements of the industry over the past 20 years, I mentioned those, computer modeling and 3-D seismic, the worldwide search and the deliberate effort to find the largest remaining prospects. 
   The next chart is another quote from the Corps of Engineers: Oil is the most important form of energy in the world today. 
   By the way, all four of these reports said the same thing in slightly different words, that peaking of oil is either present or imminent. By peaking, we mean we've reached the maximum of production to produce it. Try as hard as we will, it will not increase after that, but just go down, down, down. It's being doing that in our country since 1970; that's in spite of the fact that we have drilled more oil wells in our country than all the rest of the world put together. 
   Putting a dozen straws in the soda will not result in more soda, will it? It's a limited amount. There is a limited amount. 
   Historically, no energy resource equals oil's intrinsic qualities of extractability, transportability, versatility, and cost. The qualities that enabled oil to take over from coal as the front line energy source for the industrialized world in the middle of the 20th century are as relevant today as they were then. 
   The next chart is from the first report that came out. This is the ``Hirsch Report'' that came out a few months earlier than the Corps of Engineers report. And they made some really startling statements there. World production to conventional oil will reach a maximum and decline thereafter. That maximum is called the peak. A number of competent forecasters project peaking within a decade.     
   I have a chart in a few moments which will show you those and when they predicted it. 
   ``Prediction of the peaking is extremely difficult.'' It is indeed. And you will only know that it's peaked historically looking back to see that, in fact, it peaked. And the production of oil, as I mentioned, has been constant for the last 30 months. As a matter of fact, conventional oil production has fallen off, but the total production is constant because we've been producing some unconventional oil. Heavy sours, sour oil is oil that has a lot of sulfur in it and you need to get rid of that. And the Alberta, Canada tar sands that we will talk about in a few moments. 
   ``Oil peaking presents a unique challenge,'' they say. ``The world has never faced a problem like this. There is no precedent in history to prepare us for what will happen. Without massive mitigation more than a decade before the fact, if oil has now peaked,'' which it looks like it has, they said, we should have started a decade ago, and if we didn't, there are going to be meaningful consequences is what they are saying. 
   The next chart is a really interesting statement by our Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice: ``We do have to do something about the energy problem.'' Thank you. We should have been doing something about it for the last 27 years. I say 27 years because by 1980, we knew absolutely that M. King Hubbert was right that the United States had peaked in 1970. It takes about that long to be really certain that peaking has occurred, but I think we knew it, absolutely knew it. 
   ``We do have to do something about the energy problem. I can tell you that nothing has really taken me aback more as Secretary of State than the way that the politics of energy is--I will use the word `warping'--diplomacy around the world. We have simply got to do something about the warping now of diplomatic effort by the all-out rush for energy supply.'' 
   It was bad then. In April of last year, oil was nowhere near $95 a barrel then. 
   The next quote is another quote from the Hirsch Report. This is a big report done by SAIC, Science Applications International Corporation, a very prestigious international engineering scientific organization. They say that the economic, social, and political costs will be unprecedented. ``There is nothing in history to prepare us for the economic, social, and political cost of the peaking of oil.'' And that is not me saying that. This is a report from a major study done by a very reputable scientific engineering organization paid for by our government, by our Department of Energy. Have you heard the Department of Energy talking about this? You might ask them why not? 
   The next chart, this was 50 years ago: ``I suggest that this is a good time to think soberly about our responsibilities to our descendants, those who will ring out the fossil fuel age. We might give a break to these youngsters by cutting fuel and metal consumption so as to provide a safer margin for the necessary adjustments which eventually must be made in a world without fossil fuels.'' 
   I think I noted earlier that when you talk to the Chinese about energy, they talk about post-oil. The age of oil is now about 150 years old. That's out of 8,000 years of recorded history. In another 150 years, we will be through the age of oil. There will, for all practical purposes, be no more gas, oil, or coal. What will our world look like? By the way, this is exhilarating for me. There is no exhilaration like the exhilaration of meeting and overcoming a big challenge, and this is a huge challenge. So this will be very invigorating. 
   The next chart is another one from the Corps of Engineers: ``In general, all nonrenewable resources follow a natural supply curve. Production increases rapidly, slows, reaches a peak, and then declines.'' They are just validating what M. King Hubbert said more than 50 years ago. 
   ``The major question for petroleum is not whether production will peak but when.'' Of course it will peak. It is inevitable. 
   You know, our descendents will look back on us and ask themselves how could they have done that. What we really should have done when we found this incredible wealth under the ground was to stop to ask ourselves what can we do with this to provide the most good for the most people for the longest time. That obviously is not what we did, with no more responsibility than the kid who found the cookie jar or the hog who found the feed room  door open. We have just been pigging out. And, incredibly, with all the evidence that we are probably at or nearly at peak oil, we want to continue doing that. 
   They keep asking me will I vote to drill in ANWR. No, I will not. I have 10 kids, 16 grandkids, 2 great-grandkids. We, without my votes, are going to leave them the largest intergenerational debt transfer in the history of the world. Wouldn't it be nice if I left them a little energy? 
   By the way, I will vote to drill there when they convince me they are going to use all the energy they get from ANWR and offshore to invest in renewables, because we have a huge challenge in developing enough renewables. 
   The next chart, this is an interesting one. In September 2005, ``The current price of oil is in the $45 to $57 per barrel range and is expected to stay in that range for several years.'' It is now twice that, more than twice of $45. Now, this is a very thoughtful group of people that did this study, but they missed it, didn't they? 
   ``The supply of oil is increasingly inadequate to meet the demand. Oil prices may go significantly higher.'' Indeed they have. ``And some have predicted prices ranging up to $180 a barrel in a few years. Who knows?'' We assume we will be at $100 a barrel. How long will it take to get to this $180 a barrel? 
   The next chart is an interesting chart. And what this shows is a number of authorities, and we can get you this list, all these A to U, nearly an alphabet of them, and when they have predicted peaking will occur. Now, some of them are really uncertain. It could be now or any time in the next hundred years. But most of them believe that it will occur very soon or there is a probability it will occur very soon. So there is wide, wide concurrence in the scientific world out there that the peaking of oil is either present or imminent. And these four major government studies, I don't have quotes here from a study done by the National Petroleum Council. They have reached essentially the same conclusions. And another one was done by the Government Accountability Office. And all four of these said essentially the same thing: Peaking is either present or imminent with potentially devastating consequences. 
   The next chart is just a little schematic that shows the peaking curve. By the way, you can obviously compress the abscissa and expand the ordinate and make that a very sharp curve, or you can spread it out, as we've done here, and make it a gradual curve. The significant thing is that yellow area there represents 35 years. You see, at only a 2 percent increase in use, it doubles in 35 years. It is four times bigger in 70 years. It is eight times bigger in 105 years, and it is 16 times bigger in 140 years. Well, no wonder a namesake of mine, and I wish I was his relative, who really is a bright guy, Albert Bartlett, says that the biggest failure of industrialized society is to understand the exponential 
   function. Albert Einstein in responding to what will we find after nuclear energy, he said that the most powerful force in the universe is the power of compound interest. And that's what we see. 
   The next chart, and this is a really interesting one, shows on the ordinate here how happy you are with your state in life, your sense of well-being. What it shows on the abscissa here is how much energy we use. Guess where we are. We use more energy than anybody else in the world, and we're pretty happy about things. But notice that, I think, 20-some countries who use less energy than we, some of them less than half as much, feel better about their quality of life than we feel about ours. I put this slide up here to show you that we can use a whole lot less energy and still live well, still be very satisfied with our life. 
   The next one, and we need to come and start one of these 60 minutes we have together and just focus on this chart, because this is the future and this is where we are going. We will, of necessity, ultimately transition from fossil fuels to renewables. When the fossil fuels are gone, and one day they will be, the only argument is not whether but when. And when they are gone, we will have transitioned either smoothly because we chose the route or a really bumpy ride because we didn't plan ahead. 
   There are some finite resources that we can use. The finite resources include the tar sands, and previously you heard some discussion of the tar sands. They are now producing a million barrels a day. That's a lot, isn't it? But the world consumes 84 million barrels a day. We consume 21 million barrels a day. So they are producing a little bit more than 1 percent of the oil that the world uses, and they know that what they are doing is not sustainable. They will run out of water. They will run out of energy because they are now using stranded natural gas. Stranded gas is gas that is somewhere where there aren't very many people, and since it is hard to ship, they say it's stranded, and it's cheaper. So they are using stranded natural gas there in this process. What they do is have a big shovel that lifts 100 tons at a time. They dump it in a truck that hauls 400 tons, and they haul it to a big cooker where they cook it so that it is really stiff. All the volatiles will come out of that because it's near the surface, and they cook that until the oil flows, and then they add some solvents to it so it will flow at normal temperatures. And if you think of the thing they are now mining as a vein, that vein shortly ducks under an overlay so that they are going to have to develop it in situ, and they have no idea how they are going to develop it in situ. So the Canadians will tell you that what they are doing is not sustainable. They might for a bit ramp up and produce a little more, but ultimately it is certainly not sustainable. 
   By the way, there is a huge, huge amount of potential energy in the tar sands. One and a half times as much energy there as all the known reserves of oil in the world. It is incredibly large. But let me note to you that there is an incredible amount of energy in the tides. So just because it is there doesn't mean it is in your gas tank, and just like the tides, which are very difficult to harness, this has proved difficult to harness. 
   What's even more difficult to harness are the oil shales. And we have more in our West, roughly 1 1/2 trillion barrels of oil. The world has only about 1 trillion recoverable barrels of oil in all the world. So we have one and a half times as much as all recoverable oil in the world. Then why not rest easy? Because it is enormously difficult to exploit. The Shell Oil Company was the last company that conducted a major experiment there, and they aren't certain that it is economically supportable to develop this. We put a lot of money in that in the 1970s after the Arab oil embargo, and we still are a little closer to exploitation of these shales than we were then. 
   Then there's coal. You've heard that we have 500 years of coal. That is just flat out not true. A more correct statement until we knew better was that we had 250 years of coal. But that's at current use rates. The National Academy of Sciences has reevaluated the data. This is not me saying it. This is the National Academy of Sciences, the most prestigious scientific organization perhaps in the world. And they have said that they have not looked at this data since 1970. That's a long time ago. In relooking at the data, they say there is probably 100 years there. But let's look at what happens if there are 250 years there. At a 2 percent growth rate, remember we talked about the 35 years it doubles, at 70 it is four times, 16 times bigger in 140 years? That now shrinks to 85 years. And if you convert some of this, if you use some of the energy to convert it to a gas or a liquid, it now shrinks to 50 years. And it is inevitable that you will share it with the world. Let me explain. If we are using liquids produced from coal, we are not buying oil; so that means that oil is available to India and China, isn't it? Energy liquid fuels are fungible. So it is inevitable we will have to share it with the world because if we are not buying the oil, someone else will. That 50 years then shrinks to 12 1/2 years. And, by the way, if the real amount, as the National Academy says, is 100 years, then that shrinks to about 5 years. So we have 5 years of coal at 2 percent growth to be converted to a gas or a liquid and share it, as we must, with the world. 
   So for those who tell you rest easy, we have got this huge amount of coal, not to worry, 250 years, that's at current use rates, and they just do not understand what happens with exponential growth. 
   Now, back to the chart we were looking at.     
   This really should be a separate category because nuclear is, if it's the right kind of nuclear, totally sustainable. 
   There are three ways we can get nuclear energy. One is from the light water reactor. All of the electrical energy in the world, I think, is produced from light water reactors. France produces about 75 percent of their energy; we, 19 or 20 percent of our electricity. 
   But fissure uranium is limited in the world. There is not enough to meet all future demands. But then we can go to breeder reactors. The breeder reactors do as the name implies, they produce more fuel than they use. So that is kind of a forever thing. With that, you buy some huge problems in transporting and enrichment. And you are hauling around weapons grade material, and then you're having to store away the end product for maybe a quarter of a million years. So although we have the potential for a lot of energy from breeder reactors, that comes with some big problems that we need to address. 
   Then there is nuclear fusion. We have a great fusion reactor; it's called the sun. And it, by the way, is the source of almost all of our present energy and past energy. All of the fossil fuels are there because the sun was shining a long time ago to make the plants and microbes and so forth grow. Well, we put about $250 million a year into nuclear fusion. I suspect we are a little closer now than we were 15 years ago when I came to the Congress. By the way, I happily vote for that $250 million because it's the only thing that gets us home free, if we can find fusion. 
   If you think you're going to solve your personal economic problems by winning the lottery, you're probably content that we're going to solve our energy problems by developing fusion. I think the odds are roughly the same. But because it is so incredibly important, because it gets us home free, I happily vote for the roughly $250 million we spend there. 
   Then the renewables, solar and wind. I want to spend some time talking about these. 
   I'm pretty sanguine about our future for electricity. We can produce a lot of electricity by nuclear; France produces about 75 percent of theirs. There are huge potentials from solar and wind. More solar energy falls on the Earth each day than we use all year long. It may be in less time than that that it falls on the Earth; it's an incredible amount of energy. The big problem, of course, is harnessing that energy. It is, by the way, the sun that makes the wind blow. The wind blows because there is differential heating, and so it makes the wind to blow. So all of this is kind of solar energy; wind, kind of secondhand solar energy. 
   The problem with solar and wind is the sun doesn't shine all the time, and the wind doesn't blow all the time. But we have a pretty constant demand for energy, so you've got to store it. And this is a huge challenge. And if you're talking about running your car on batteries, then you have to think, but, do we have the raw materials necessary for making enough batteries to run all the millions of cars in the world with batteries? I think we could produce enough electricity to do that. I'm not at all sure that there is enough raw materials out there to make the batteries necessary for these cars. 
   Then there is geothermal. I'm not talking about the heat pump that you tie to groundwater or ground temperature, which really, by the way, is what you ought to do. If you think about your heat pump, in the summer it's an air conditioner. It has to warm the outside air. It may be 100 outside, no matter. The heat pump has to increase the air, that temperature, in order to decrease the temperature in your house. 
   And in the winter time, what is it trying to do? When it's 10 degrees outside, the heat pump has to make it even colder outside so it can make you warmer inside. The 56 degrees, which is what it is here, looks awfully cool in the summer time, doesn't it? And awfully warm in the winter time. As a little boy, I was confused about how the spring house we had on our farm could be so warm in the winter time and so cool in the summer time. Of course when I went to school, I kind of figured that thing out. 
   Ocean energy. I mentioned an incredible amount of energy in the ocean, but harnessing that energy is a difficult thing. The waves and the tides represent, by the way, the tides are produced by the movement of the Moon, of course. That's an exception to energy produced in the past or now from the sun. 
   But the challenge there is that because this is so spread out, it's so difficult to harness. A good axiom is that energy, to be effective, must be concentrated. And, boy, is it concentrated in gas and oil and coal, just an incredible amount of energy there. Both the quantity and the quality of that energy is superior to anything that we can produce to take its place. 
   Now, agricultural resources, and this is an area, let me flip to the next chart. Let's look at corn. 
   Earlier this evening you heard quite a discussion of ethanol and its potential. And I don't want to quote ROSCOE BARTLETT here; I want to quote the National Academy of Sciences here. They did a study, and they concluded, and this was an article that appeared, I think, was it The Washington Post, and they said that if we took all of our corn for ethanol and discounted it for the fossil fuel input, which they said was 80 percent, by the way, some people think that we use more energy producing corn than we get out of the ethanol from corn; but even if it's 80 percent, and that's a realistic number, I think, if we used all of our corn for ethanol, no tortillas, no fattening of pigs and chickens from corn, used it all for ethanol, it would displace only 2.4 percent of our gasoline. 
   Now, if you just start with the corn and ignore the energy it took to produce the corn, then you get a whole different figure. So you need to be careful when people are talking to you about energy from ethanol. You know, the sun gratuitously produced that energy that put the oil in the ground; it doesn't gratuitously grow our corn. 
   We put huge amounts of fertilizer, this lower pie chart shows that nearly half the energy that goes into producing corn, and not one person in 50 outside of the farmer knows this, almost half the energy that goes into producing corn comes from the natural gas from which we make the nitrogen fertilizer. Nature does this, by the way. You may notice that your lawn is never as green watering it as it is after a thunderstorm; we used to call it ``poor man's fertilizer.'' The nitrogen in the air is converted by the lightning into a forum which is carried down into the ground. That's fertilizer by the rain. 
   This is their data. The National Academy of Science said if we use all of our corn for ethanol and discount it for fossil fuel, a little silly, something to burn the fossil fuels in another forum, which is corrosive, you can't put it in our pipes. You have to add it pretty much at the last minute because we don't have the infrastructure to move ethanol around. They wisely noted that if you tuned up your car and put air in the tires, you would save as much oil as using all of our corn to produce ethanol. 
   They then noted if we use all of our soybeans for diesel fuel, soy diesel, all of it, no soybeans exported to China, which was, a few years ago, our largest dollar export, by the way, because tofu, bean curd, as they call it, is the energy staple of the Orient, none of that, if we used all of our soybeans for soy diesel, it would displace 2.9 percent of our diesel. 
   Now, there are, I think, 70 million acres of corn, 60 million acres of soybeans planted on our best soil, pampered with fertilizers and pesticides and insecticides. And we would get, if we used it all for energy, 2.4 percent of gasoline and 2.9 percent of our diesel would be displaced. 
   Now, how much energy should we expect to get from weeds and switch grass and trees? I don't know. But I suspect that it's going to be difficult, sustainably, to get huge amounts of energy there because today's weeds and so forth are growing in large measure because last year's weeds died and are rotting and fertilizing them. 
   When you take the growth away from the rain forest, which looks like an incredibly wealthy environment in terms of nutrients, you leave laterite soils that will hardly grow anything because most all of the nutrients were in the plants that were growing. 
   The Department of Agriculture came to me and they were hyping cellulosic  ethanol. And I asked them, Are our topsoils increasing in quantity and quality? And the answer is no. Then I said, Pray tell, how are we going to get these enormous amounts of energy? Because topsoil is topsoil. Because of humus, humus is the material from plants that grew yesterday and are rotting today. It holds nutrients; it holds water. For every bushel of corn we grow in Iowa, three bushels of topsoil go down the Mississippi River. In spite of our best practices, it used to be many bushels, by the way. In spite of our best practices, three bushels still go down the river. 
   We will certainly get something. What if we got four times as much, which is unlikely, from our wasteland and woods and so forth, as we can get from all of our corn and all of our soybeans? That would be roughly 20 percent. Exploiting. Now, this would not be sustainable. You might, for a few years, mine the topsoil and take off this biomass, but by and by you will pay for that because you will no longer have the same quality or quantity of topsoil. 
   The next chart has a little pie chart on it, which is really interesting. We're a little bit like the couple whose grandparents have died and left them a big inheritance and they have now established a lifestyle where 85 percent of the money they spend comes from their grandparents' inheritance and only 15 percent from their paycheck. And, by golly, the grandparents' inheritance is going to run out before they retire. So obviously they've got to restructure their lives; they have to make more or spend less, or some combination of that. That's where we are as far as energy is concerned. Eighty-five percent of our energy comes from natural gas, petroleum and coal. A bit more than half of the remainder comes from nuclear power. 
   And here are the true renewables over here. This is an old chart, several years old. 
   I appreciate the opportunity to address the House. And we will return shortly to talk more about these very important subjects. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (EARTH DAY -- (House of Representatives - April 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. I rise in support of this resolution commemorating Earth Day and its goals and ideals. The first Earth Day was celebrated in 1970 by 20 million people. That same year, President Nixon created the Environmental Protection Agency to protect public health and the environment and Congress amended the Clean Air Act with the goals of improving the national air quality, reduce auto emissions, and create antipollution standards. 
   We have come a long way as a Nation since that first Earth Day. In 1972, when Congress passed the Clean Air Act, only 26 percent of the Nation's streams were safe for swimming and fishing. Today, about 60 percent of our streams are safe for such purposes. This day has a very special meaning for me because of my childhood experiences with streams. In the early thirties, I grew up in the coal mining country of western Pennsylvania, and every one of the streams that I could get to was called a sulfur creek because it contained waters that had leached the sulfur out of the mines. There was only one thing that lived in those creeks, and that was a little red wiggly worm. It must have been tough because nothing else lived there. The rocks were all covered by a slimy, orangish kind of a film. I am sure those streams weren't safe to swim in, but we swam in them anyway because we were too poor to go to the pool. I didn't know where a pool existed. So Earth Day has a very special meaning for me. Those streams  now, I think, are all clear thanks to our attention to that. 
   A few years later, when Congress passed the Safe Drinking Water Act, ensuring EPA regulate the quality of our drinking water, today many Americans receive annual reports on the quality of their drinking water. In 1987, the United States joined other nations in signing the Montreal Protocol to phase out the production of chlorofluorocarbons, CFCs. As a result, the use of CFCs has been reduced drastically. 
   As a Nation, we also focused efforts on educating the public on the benefits of recycling and the clean up of hazardous materials from our lands and our waterways. In the 1990s, under President George Bush, we passed the Pollution Prevention Act and the National Environmental Education Act to emphasize the importance of preventing pollution, while educating the public on the potential effects their actions might have on the environment.     
   During the same period, the EPA established the Energy Star program to provide consumers with information on the availability of energy efficient appliances. 
   I would like to note, Mr. Speaker, that our efforts on efficiency have really been dramatic, and if it were not for the greatly increased efficiencies we have, we would be in even more trouble environmentally and with oil today than we are. 
   In 1993, President Clinton launched a program encouraging Federal Government agencies to buy recycled and environmentally friendly products. In recent years, President George W. Bush signed the Brownfields Revitalization Act to reclaim and restore thousands of abandoned properties and the Healthy Forest Restoration Act to prevent forest fires and preserve the Nation's forests. 
   Throughout the last three decades, efforts have been made to educate the public about the importance of conserving resources, preserving the environment and protecting the air we breathe and the water we drink. Americans have a better quality of life due to our own efforts to clean up the environment for ourselves and our children. 
   I support this resolution recognizing Earth Day and urge my colleagues to support it. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (EARTH DAY -- (House of Representatives - April 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I think that a tipping moment occurred for most Americans when in that spacecraft hurdling toward the Moon they looked back and took a picture of our Earth, how small it was from that vantage point, and we suddenly recognized that the more than 6 billion of us who occupy this Earth ride a rather, in the grand scheme of things, tiny spacecraft. It is our only home. 
   I am very appreciative of the emphasis today on Earth Day, because I think that it is more than appropriate that we focus on this tiny orb that we are privileged to occupy as we hurdle through space. I remember staying up until 2 o'clock in the morning for that first walk on the Moon, and I remember those early pictures, and, gee, this is our Earth, and it really isn't all that big, is it? 
   So I thank those who got this legislation together. I am in strong support of recognizing Earth Day and encourage all Americans to do so. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Madam Speaker, there are three different groups in our country and indeed worldwide at least for some of these issues that have common cause in campaigning for a reduction in the use of fossil fuels. These three groups come from very different perspectives, but as you will see from our discussions this evening they really do have common cause. Because to solve the problems that brings them to this dialogue, all three of these groups are advocating essentially the same thing. That is, a reduction in our use of fossil fuels. 
   The first of these groups is a very large group which has genuine concern about national security interests. Probably 2 years ago now, or nearly that, 30 of our prominent Americans, Boyden Gray, McFarland, Jim Woolsey and 27 others, some of them senior retired military people, wrote a letter to the President saying: Mr. President, the fact that in our country we have only 2 percent of the known reserves of world oil and we use 25 percent of the world's oil, importing almost two-thirds of what we use, represents a totally unacceptable national security risk. 
   The President himself recognized this in his State of the Union a year ago when he noted that we get some of this oil from countries, as he said, that don't even like us very much. That is a bit of an understatement for some of those countries. 
   The next chart shows a recognition of this on the part of our Secretary of State. This was April 5 of last year. We do have to do something about the energy problem. 
   I can tell you that nothing has really taken me aback more as Secretary of State than the way that the politics of energy is, I will use the word, ``warping'' diplomacy around the world. We have simply got to do something about the warping now of diplomatic effort by the all-out rush for energy supply. 
   I am sure that in her head she had a mental picture of this really interesting map of the world. This shows what our world would look like if the size of each country was determined by its reserves of oil. And you can see how in America right here, tiny on this map of the world, we represent about less than 5 percent of the people of the world and we have only about 2 percent of the oil in the world, but we are using 25 percent of the oil. 
   Look how small we are. We would fit many times in Saudi Arabia. We are about the size of Qatar here. We would fit four times in Kuwait, if the size of Kuwait, if the land mass of Kuwait was relative to how much oil they have. 
   Russia up there, they are a big exporter now, but they can be a big exporter because they aren't using anywhere near as much as we have. You see Russia is two or three times as large as we are. 
   Well, that large community in our country which is genuinely concerned about national security interests understands our problems that come from this distribution of oil. Many of these oil reserves are in countries that, what we call the royal families. They are really dictatorships, aren't they? And Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. And then in Iran, that is run as a theocracy pretty much totally controlled by the Mullahs. And here we have Venezuela, a Communist state. 
   The President very wisely said in that State of the Union message a year ago that we are getting oil, many of the reserves are in countries that don't even like us very much. 
   Now, fortunately, our imported oil doesn't come from the mix as we see it here, because we are getting oil where it is cheaper to ship it and so forth. So a lot of our oil comes from Canada. They are pretty tiny in terms of total reserves, but there aren't many people there, so they are an exporter. We get oil from Mexico, and we get oil from Venezuela simply because of economics. It is just cheaper to ship it the short distances around the world. 
   So this is one group that has common cause in wanting to reduce our consumption of fossil fuels, particularly oil, because we are so dependent on the rest of the world which, as Condoleezza Rice says, presents a very real national security problem. 
   A second group that is interested in reducing our use of these fossil fuels, particularly oil, is the group that believes that, whereas the United States reached its maximum production of oil in 1970, that the world is about to approach that point now. And if you aren't concerned about national security risks and if you aren't concerned about climate change, which is going to be the third one that we talk about, you would really be concerned about oil if you recognized that there is not going to be enough of it in the future. It is going to be a real economic problem. 
   What we have here, it says here, the United States production Hubbert versus Actual. This is a report from CERA, the Cambridge Energy Research Associates, who were trying to point out that M. King Hubbert was not very accurate in his prediction of what the United States would do, and therefore you shouldn't take him very seriously when he predicted the world would be peaking about now. 
   The average person looking at this would say that they were kind of nitpicking, because this is the Hubbert's Lower 48 Projection, this yellow line here, and the red is the actual. And of course added to the Lower 48 was our big discovery in Dead Horse and Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, and our oil discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico. Well, I think that these two curves here run pretty darned close together; and for that growing community of people that have a genuine concern about the availability of oil in the future, this chart has real meaning. 
   I might look at the next chart here before we move to those who are concerned about climate change. This is a chart which presents the challenge that we face from what is called peak oil, and these bars here represent the discoveries of oil. You note that the big discoveries were back in the 1960s and 1970s; and ever since 1980, on average, the discoveries have been reducing, going down, down, down. 
   Now, anyone who has had any math and charting and so forth in school  knows that if you draw a smooth curve over this, the area under the curve will represent the total amount of oil that we have found. Indeed, each of these represents a reservoir of oil. If you add up all these little bars, why you have the total; and that is what you do when you smooth them out. You, in effect, add them all up. 
   The solid dark line here represents the amount of oil that we have been using. We started out really rich, didn't we? We found this much oil, and we are just using this tiny bit down here.     
   It looked like oil was going to be forever. When would it run out? Look at how little we are using and how much there is out there. 
   But now look what happened. We continued to use more and more as the industrial revolution grew and as our population grew and we found more ways to use energy to make our lives comfortable. The use continued to grow and grow, but the discovery started falling off. 
   In 1965 or so, they started falling off, down, down, down, and that is in spite of ever better techniques for finding oil, computer modeling, 3-D seismic and so forth. We now have a pretty good idea of what the geology of the world looks like, and we will find gas and oil in only very unique geological formations. Maybe a little later this evening we will have a little chance to talk about those so you have some expectation of what we might find in the future. 
   Here we are now, and this is about 2007, and we have been using more oil ever since about 1980 than we have been finding. Of course, we have had lots of reserve, and we have been eating up that reserve now, until we have taken some of this to fill in this space. 
   Now you look to the future, and what does the future look like? We have some options of what the future looks like. One of the options we do not have, though, is pumping oil we have not found. So unless you think we are going to find more oil than this chart indicates, and of course it will not be a smooth, down curve like that. It will be up and down but generally it will be down most people recognize. Well, we can use all sorts of enhanced oil recovery techniques and pump it sooner, and you may get a little more from those enhanced recovery techniques, but you cannot pump what you have not found. 
   So this shows you very graphically. If you had only one graph to look at to help you understand what we are facing in terms of peak oil, this would be the graph. So you understand now why this second group is really concerned about our use of fossil fuels, particularly oil, because it is very probable that the world is going to reach its maximum production of oil, maybe has already, but if not now, very soon, and the demand for oil, which has been going up at a roughly 2 percent per year growth is going to continue. So it is going to be an ever increasing difference between the available oil and the demand for oil. 
   Of course, when that happens, of course when demand exceeds supply, price goes up, and we have seen oil prices go up relatively few years ago from $10 a barrel to $60 a barrel now. It was just a few months ago $78 a barrel. Kind of fear factor in that way, it went away, and it dropped very quickly $18 a barrel. But very volatile market, up and down $1 or more a day. Another fear factor, it could jump another $18. 
   The next chart I have here is one that shows the concerns that this third group has, and that is those who are concerned about climate change. I have something I want to read here. This chart comes from this document by the way, ``Stern Review: The Economics of Climate Change.'' It says here, ``The scientific evidence is now overwhelming: climate change presents very serious global risks, and it demands an urgent global response. 
   ``Climate change is global in its causes and consequences, and international collective action will be critical in driving an effective, efficient and equitable response on the scale required.'' 
   This international cooperation reminds me of a visit we just made. I came back just about a month ago from China. Nine of us, nine Members of Congress went over and the primary reason of the trip was to talk to them about energy. I was surprised and pleased when they began their discussion of energy by talking about post-oil. Gee, I says, they get it. Somehow a civilization that was a golden civilization when my Fore Fathers were barbarians running around Europe has a longer view of things than we seem to have. We have trouble seeing beyond the next quarterly report in our industry. We have real trouble here seeing beyond the next election. But they are looking post-oil they say. They recognize that there will be a post-oil period. 
   A thousand years of recorded history, we have been in the age of oil about 100, 150 years. If it is half gone and if it follows a bell curve, as it did in our country and it probably will in the world, you have probably got another 100, 150 years of oil, with ever increasing costs and ever decreasing amounts as we get the oil, which is harder and harder to get. 
   Climate change presents a unique challenge for economics. It is the greatest and widest ranging market failure ever seen. The benefits of strong, early action on climate change outweigh the costs they say. 
   So this is a little chart that shows where these gases come from. Just a moment of explanation as to why the use of oil and so forth produces climate change. 
   When you go out into your car this evening, if you go out, if it is parked outside and the sun is shining in, and if you go out before dark, your car will be very much warmer inside than it is outside, and we call that the greenhouse effect. What happens is the light from the sun comes in in a very broad wavelength spectrum from very long waves to very short waves, and they go easily through your car, most of them through the car window, and then that sun heats up the material inside your car, and that reradiates in the infrared. Well, the glass is relatively impervious to infrared so it simply reflects it back, and that is called the greenhouse effect, and your car then gets warmer and warmer. You see it especially on a summer day when it may be 80 outside and 120 inside your car which is why you should not leave your children and animals inside the car when you leave it. 
   Well, there are gases in the atmosphere that essentially do the same thing as the glass in your automobile. You may remember riding in the airplane and you are very comfortable sitting in there at 38, 40,000 feet and the pilot tells you it is minus 40 degrees centigrade outside. That is really cold. The reason you could be so warm down here and you are so cold up here is the reflection of all this heat which is radiated back from the earth, long infrared rays, and they are reflected back. One of the things that reflects them back are gases up in the atmosphere. There a number of those gases, methane, and carbon dioxide is one of the major ones. 
   Of course, carbon dioxide, absolutely essential for plant life, and they are so efficient. Our oxygen is about 21 percent. We can do with maybe half of that. If you are at 18,000 feet, that is all you have got because of the atmospheric pressure there. But these plants make due on .04 percent. Do you not wish you could be as efficient as these plants? You could get by on the top of Mt. Everest very easily. You would not need to pressurize the cockpit in the aircraft you are riding in. 
   What stunned me in this report was when I read that our earth now is only 5 degrees centigrade, that is 9 degrees Fahrenheit, warmer than it was in the last ice age. Wow, what a huge change in climate, a relatively small change in temperature makes, just 9 degrees cooler Fahrenheit, and we had glaciers that came down to southeast Ohio. They came down that far, scooping up the dirt and from it you can see where it melted and left the mounds of gravel and dirt there where they came down that far. 
   Well, I am very pleased to be joined by one of the 
   Nation's leading voices and authorities on climate change, my colleague, also from the great State of Maryland, Congressman Gilchrest. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. I want to thank my colleague very much for joining us here. Congressman Gilchrest mentioned market forces. They are, indeed, very powerful. They have served us very well in this country. They have provided for us the highest quality of life of any place in the world. But market forces are limited. They cannot do what they cannot do. 
   As I noted somewhat humorously, there are even some things that God cannot do. God can't make a square circle, for instance. The market forces are very powerful. As long as there are unlimited forces, market forces will work. I remember mentioning to one of our very high government officials the problem of limited oil supply in the future. The response was, gee, I guess the market will take care of that. 
   I guess when oil gets more expensive, we will use less of it, and then we will find alternatives. That is true. When oil prices get higher, we will use less of it, and we will look for alternatives. 
   But when you look at the potential for exploiting these alternatives, you see that a large amount of time and energy must be invested in these alternatives before they yield any meaningful amount of replacement for the fossil fuels, which are so abundant and so energy rich. 
   Let me give you just one little example of some of the unintended consequences of trying to do this. This is a big push to make ethanol from corn in our country. We have noted that the Brazilians are making ethanol from sugar cane, and they now don't have to import any oil. We would like to emulate them and make enough ethanol from corn that we will not have to import oil. That, by the way, is the impossible dream. That will not happen. 
   With the relatively small amount of ethanol that we are now making, and there aren't very many E-85 pumps or blends of ethanol in gasoline in this part of the country, there are in the Midwest, but with the relatively small amount of ethanol that we are making, the demand for corn raised the price of corn from $2.11 a bushel in September to $4.08 in December. That is causing a huge problem for our people that raise animals. 
   We are having a meeting in a few days with a number of our dairy people from Maryland. Unless milk goes up to more, I think it is about $14 per 100, now it needs to be at least $18 before they can break even. 
   With this kind of a price for food for their animals, they will go bankrupt. So the relatively small demand for corn to make the relatively small amount of ethanol that we are making now has essentially doubled the price of corn. 
   What this does is to reflect the enormous amount of energy that is in these fossil fuels. There they are really energy dense. This chart shows something about what has happened to our world as a result of the incredible energy density in these fossil fuels. 
   Hyman Rickover, and let me get a copy of his paper, it was not really a paper, it was a talk that he gave to a group of physicians 50 years ago. The anniversary of that will be May 14 of this year, and that was at a banquet of the annual scientific assembly of the Minnesota State Medical Association. This talk had nothing to do with medicine. He apologized for that at the beginning of his talk. But he thought that the physicians might enjoy some diversion. 
   He was talking about the enormous fossil energy in these fuels. Hyman Rickover, of course, is the father of our nuclear submarine. I had no idea that he had given this talk. It just appeared in the Energy Bulletin December 2 of last year, 2006. So it has only been out in the general public for these couple of months. 
   I noted this the other night that we need to hear this again, because this is just so revealing as to what this energy has done for us. With high energy consumption goes a high standard of living. Does the enormous fossil fuel energy in this country which we control feed machines which makes each of us a master of an army of mechanical slaves? Now at that time we didn't import any, so he could say we controlled it. Now we import almost two-thirds of what we use. 
   Another writer has indicated the incredible amount of energy in fossil fuels in oil. Let me give you the analogies he uses, and then I will read the ones that Hyman Rickover gave in that speech 50 years ago. One barrel of oil produces the energy equivalent of 12 men working all year for you. 
   If you figure the price that you could hire a man, the equivalent a man to work for you, by buying $10 of fossil fuel, of oil, it will work a full year for you. Now let me read what Hyman Rickover said 50 years ago and more so today. Man's muscle power is rated at 35 watts continuously, \1/20\ of a horse power. That is 24/7. You can do a little better than that when you are working, but you have to eat, sleep, so forth. 
   Machines, therefore, furnish every American and industrial worker with energy equivalent to that of 244 men. Wow. How many man-months of work without any energy from fossil fuels would it have taken to build your automobile? 
   While at least 2,000 men push his automobile along the road and his family is supplied with 33 faithful household helpers. Each locomotive engineer, he says, controls energy equivalent to that of 100,000 men. Each jet pilot of 700,000 men. 
   You know, thinking of that jet pilot in that plane up there just the other day, and I look at those contrails and sometimes they are the only cloud-like things in the sky, it finally occurred to me the dynamics of this CO  
   2 thing that Congressman Gilchrest was talking about, carbon; and that is what is in these fuels, is largely carbon and hydrogen. 
   Carbon has a molecular weight of 12, and hydrogen has a molecular weight of 1. It is the lightest element in the universe. When you burn this carbon, it combines with oxygen, one molecule of carbon with two molecules of oxygen. Oxygen weighs 16. So what that says is, Congressman Gilchrest, that if you weigh the gasoline that goes in your car, you produce three times that weight in carbon dioxide. That is incredible. 
   Now, all of that carbon dioxide was taken out of the atmosphere a very long time ago. I didn't know, as a little boy, where oil came from; but I did know where coal came from, because we had a coal furnace in our house, and I would have to break those big lumps of coal. We bought it just as it came out of the mine.     
   When I would break a lump of coal open, there would be a fern leaf. Nobody had to tell me where coal came from. I knew very well where it came from. It came from plants that grew a  very long time ago, they fell over under pressure and in time and they became coal. 
   So we were releasing incredible amounts of carbon dioxide, which is a greenhouse gas, which will change the acidity of the ocean. Fortunately carbon dioxide is very soluble in water. But it still changes the pH of the water because it forms a very weak acid, carbonic acid, when it gets in the water. 
   Truly, the humblest American, Admiral Rickover says, enjoys the services of more slaves than were once owned by the richest nobles, and live better than most ancient kings. In retrospect and despite wars, revolutions and disasters, the 100 years just gone by, that was 1950, that is right here, the 100 years just gone by, may well seem like a Golden Age. 
   And what this chart shows here is the history of the world, energy wise, for only about 400 years out of that 8,000 years that Admiral Rickover talks about. And the industrial revolution began with wood, the brown curve here, and it did not produce very many quadrillion BtUs of energy, and then coal, and boy did the economy grow with coal and trains and so forth. But then look what happened. It exploded when we found gas and oil. And that is because gas and oil are so easy to change into compounds that we can readily get energy from. 
   And they are much more adaptable and flexible than coal. Although you can get gas and oil from coal. Hitler had to do that when we cut off his oil supplies, and under embargoes South Africa had to do that. We may be turning to that again shortly. 
   As I mentioned, Madam Speaker, there are three groups that really have common cause in talking about the use of these fossil fuels. One is that very large and growing group of people, including our Secretary of State, who are concerned that our growing dependence on foreign oil is a very serious national security risk. 
   Well, what do we do? We obviously need to use less of it. The President says we are hooked on it, we need to use less of it. And we can use less of it two ways. One. We can simply conserve and be more efficient. And we have done some of that. We can do a great deal more of that. 
   The second thing that we can do is to get energy from alternatives. As this chart shows, and as Dr. Rickover mentioned, there will come a time when the world will be getting less and less energy from fossil fuels, and finally at some point in history down the road, we will be getting essentially no energy from fossil fuels, because obviously they are not infinite in their supply and they will not last forever. 
   In 8,000 years of recorded history, the Age of Oil will represent but a blip in terms of energy production, a pretty big blip. But we are probably about halfway through the age of oil. In another 100, 150 years if M. King Hubbert is correct and we are now at the peak, and it will be tailing off and going down the other side of what is commonly called Hubbert's Peak, oil will be ever more difficult to get and ever more costly. 
   In another 100, 150 years we will have transition to renewables, we will be steady-state, having used up the coal we have, having gotten all of the energy we can from these unconventional oil sources, like the tar sands of Canada and the oil shales of the United States. 
   The next chart looks at what obviously we need to be about. And that is addressing this problem. Now, whether you believe that we need to reduce our use of fossil fuels because it is a national security problem, whether you believe we need to reduce our use of fossil fuels because it is causing climate change, or whether you believe we need to reduce the use of fossil fuels because they are just not going to be there in the quantities that we are using today in the future, you still must do the same things. 
   Well, the first thing that you need to do is to buy some time. We now, knowing that we should have known at least by 1980 that we were going to be here today, because we were already 10 years down the other side of our Hubbert's Peak in this country, and M. King Hubbert had already predicted that the world would be peaking about now. 
   For these last 27 years, we should have been addressing this problem and investing energy and time in alternatives. Unfortunately, we in large measure have not done that. And so today we are faced with a problem. We have no excess oil, no excess oil energy to invest in alternatives. If there were any excess it would not be $55, $60 a barrel. And we have essentially run out of time. 
   Now, we can buy some time and free up some oil with an aggressive program in conservation. And you really can do that. Europe is using half the energy that we use. It would be hard to argue that they do not live as comfortably as we do. The average Californian uses 65 percent of the electricity that we use. And there are 50 some of those in our Congress. I doubt that any would agree that they live less well than we do, and they still use a lot less energy than we use. 
   What we need to do then is use it wisely. What will we do with this energy that we freed up and the time that we have bought by this aggressive conservation program? We have to invest that wisely in alternatives. 
   Now whichever of these camps that you come from, whether it is the climate change camp, or the camp that is concerned that we are too dependent on foreign oils, that is going to be a big national security risk, or whether you believe that we need to move from fossil fuels to alternatives simply because there are going to be less and less, and more and more expensive fossil fuels in the future, you still want to do essentially the same thing. 
   Enormous benefits can accrue from this. Congressman Gilchrest mentioned the enormous creativity and entrepreneurship of our people. We put a man on the moon in less than a decade. When you realize where we started from, that was a really big feat. We can do this. We were challenged to do that. 
   Today, the average American does not know that oil is probably limited in its future supply. They probably are unaware, today is an interesting day to talk about the potential for global warming, because it is the coldest day that we have had this winter. But I understand it is 20 degree above normal in Alaska and 20 degrees above normal today in Russia. 
   I just wanted to make a comment about some of the potentially unexpected consequences of this climate change. If you look at a globe, you will see that England is way up there, about mid Canada. And I had to stop for a refueling flight in Ireland. That really is the Emerald Isle, it is so green. And that has a climate like, what, South Carolina. How can you have a climate like South Carolina at a latitude of central Canada? 
   The reason for that is a huge conveyor belt that carries heat from the tropics to the British Isles and Europe. And that huge conveyor belt is called the Gulf Stream. And the Gulf Stream picks up heat in the Gulf area near the equator, and it then carries that like a giant conveyor belt up to the British Isles and Europe. 
   They have a very moderate climate compared to what they would have in the absence of the Gulf Stream. Now, water is not piling up up there around Europe and England, so it is obvious that if it flows up there and carries that heat up there, it has got to come back. 
   It comes back by going down. And why does it go down? We will talk about that in just a moment. Then it comes back flowing in just a large as volume and just as fast, it comes back to the lower part of this big conveyor belt. Again in the tropics, picking up more heat, and continues this transfer of heat to the British Isles and England. 
   Well, a very interesting thing is happening to this conveyor belt. The waters as they flow north, they are warm. And the sun shines on them, and water evaporates. And when the water evaporates, it leaves the salt there. And that makes the water more salty and heavier. And of course that is what produces the rains that then drops in our mountains and produces the indirect solar energy from the waterfalls that we use the turbines in to produce electricity. 
   Well, two things are happening. A major one is the fact that the polar ice cap is melting. And a lot of that fresh water, water without saline in it, very light compared to this heavy water, it is in addition to the general global warming of the oceans, it is the effect of this polar ice cap melting. And  strangely the melting of the polar ice cap may so dilute the waters in the Gulf Stream that they do not become dense enough to drop down to continue this conveyor belt on back down to the tropics. 
   The Gulf Stream could stop. If the Gulf Stream slows down appreciably, or if it stopped, the climate in the British Isles and in Europe would be very, very different than it is today. 
   Now, if we were in Siberia talking about global warming and so forth, we may have a very different view of it. It might be hard to convince me that a little global warming might not be good if I lived in Siberia. But noting that just this 9-degree Fahrenheit, 5 degrees Centigrade change from the Ice Age has produced the incredible climate changes that we see from that time to this, you see the potential for really devastating climate changes as a result of very modest changes in temperature. Congressman Gilchrest. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Madam Speaker, Congressman Gilchrest and I have both been twice to Antarctica. One of those trips we made together. We are on the Science Committee. We have a large experiment station down there right at the pole. When you go to Antarctica, that is a continent that nobody owns. I think Argentina claims they own it, and Russia claims they own it, but nobody honors those statements. It is an international area. 
   It has got ice piled nearly 2 miles high. So high and so heavy that it has actually pushed the continent down a little bit under it. 90 percent of all the world's ice is in Antarctica, and 70 percent of all the world's fresh water. You take our Great Lakes and all of the relatively thin ice at the North Pole and Greenland, that is relatively thin compared to nearly 2 miles in Antarctica. 
   So we have 90 percent of the ice down there and 70 percent of the fresh water. And Congressman Gilchrest mentioned that the oceans would rise maybe 3 feet with the melting of the glacial cap in Greenland and so forth and in the Arctic. If all of the ice melted, that would take a very long time, that is not going to happen tomorrow because there is a whole lot of it there. 
   But if all of the ice melted in Antarctica, I am told that the oceans would rise 200 feet.     
   Now, that would really, really change our world because I don't know what percent of our population lives within 200 feet altitude of the ocean. I suspect it is more than 50 percent, if you look around the world of the people that live at less than 200 feet altitude. 
   Now, there is an interesting ocean current that goes around Antarctica, talking about ocean currents and their affect on climates, that is the circumpolar current. And what it does is it keeps the, like our gulf stream, it will either let the cold air down if it is further south or keep it from coming down if it is further north. This circumpolar stream around the Pole keeps the northern, down there, of course, it is northern waters that are warm, it keeps the northern waters from coming down into Antarctica. And if something happened that stopped that circumpolar stream, the Antarctica polar ice cap might melt much more quickly than we anticipate that it might melt. 
   As an indication of how much these ocean currents affect climate, about 5 years ago, I guess it was, an iceberg broke off down in Antarctica, which was the size of Delaware. And in spite of the circumpolar current, some northern warm waters do get through it and down there to temper the climate a little, and that usually melts the sea ice enough so that they could get a boat in that is full of diesel file to McMurdo, which is where the main station is. You fly from there to the Pole. And because that big iceberg the size of Delaware blocked the flow of this water that year, and that was 4 years ago, it was so cold there that the sea ice didn't melt, and the closest they could get, with the help, by the way, of a Russian ice-breaker, the closest they could get was 3 miles out, so they laid a hose 3 miles across the ice to fill their tanks at McMurdo. 
   By the way, Congressman, one of the things that amazed me there, when I was down there the sun was shining all day long and the wind blew incessantly. I didn't see any solar panels down there, and I didn't see any wind machines down there. In the summer down there, in their summer, our winter, they could clearly make all of their energy from the wind and from solar. It just reflects the President's wise observation that we are hooked on oil. We are so hooked on oil that we are really quite irrational in our use of it. You had a comment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. They have a very interesting rookery down there; we enjoyed seeing it. Both times I was down we went out to the rookery to see the penguins. The big Emperor penguins, they didn't like us; they waddled off. And they scoot along on their bellies when they are moving fast, by the way, rather than marching. 
   I am very pleased to have been joined by Congressman Gilchrest. And again I want to emphasize that we have three groups that have a common cause: those that are concerned about oil and national security, those that are concerned about the excessive use of fossil fuels and the climate change that may very well result from that, and those of us, and I am with all of those groups actually, but I am particularly concerned about the fact that we may muddle through the national security thing and somehow God may save us from the global warming, but nothing is going to save us if there really is a limited supply of oil. 
   So, I am very pleased to be joined by my colleague, and I join all of those in these three camps. We really do have common cause. Please join and help us do the right thing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - January 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I thought that there was only one speech given in the last century that would become very famous in the few years just ahead of us, and that was the speech given on the 8th day of March in San Antonio, Texas, by M. King Hubbert in 1956, but I just discovered a few days ago a speech which I think may become just about as famous. 
   This was a speech that was given by the father of the nuclear submarine, Hyman Rickover, and he gave this speech in May 1957. So soon we will reach the 50th anniversary of this very famous speech by the father of the nuclear submarine. 
   I just wanted to start by reading a couple of things from this speech that he gave. He gave the speech, by the way, to a group of physicians at a banquet of the Annual Scientific Assembly of the Minnesota State Medical Association in St. Paul, Minnesota, May 14, 1957. 
   The title of the speech had nothing to do with medicine. The title of the  speech is ``Energy Resources and Our Future.'' He says early on in the speech that, ``With high energy consumption goes a high standard of living. Thus the enormous fossil fuel energy which we in this country control feeds machines which make each of us master of an army of mechanical slaves.'' Now, this was 50 years ago and can you imagine what has happened since then? 
   ``Man's muscle power is rated at 35 watts continuously,'' that is, 24/7. Of course, you need to sleep and eat and so forth, and so when you are working, you are working at more than 35 watts, but 35 watts continuously, which is one-twentieth of horsepower. 
   ``Machines therefore furnish every American industrial worker with energy equivalent to that of 244 men.'' So all of those things that we enjoy in our life, the automobile, the refrigerator, the microwave, all of these represent the equivalent of 244 men in place of just the one that can turn these things out with the aid of this fossil fuel energy. 
   Then he goes on to say, ``While at least 2,000 men push his automobile along the road,'' probably more than that for an SUV, ``and his family is supplied with 33 faithful household helpers. Each locomotive engineer controls energy equivalent to that of 100,000 men; each jet pilot of 700,000 men. Truly,'' he says, ``the humblest American enjoys the services of more slaves than were once owned by the richest nobles, and lives better than most ancient kings. In retrospect, and despite wars, revolutions, and disasters, the hundred years just gone by,'' that was the 100 years up to 1957, it is now 150 years, ``just gone by may well seem like a Golden Age.'' 
   Others have commented on this incredible energy density in these fossil fuels by noting that just one barrel of oil contains the energy equivalent of 12 men working all year. If you look at the cost of that at the pump, that is roughly $10 a year. For $10 a year, you can have a servant work for you all year long. You may have some trouble getting your mind around that, but imagine how far that gallon of gasoline or diesel fuel, still cheaper, by the way, than water in the grocery store, how far that takes your SUV or your car or your truck and how long it would take you to pull your SUV or truck or car the distance that that gallon of diesel fuel or gasoline takes it. I drive a Prius. We get about 50 miles per gallon. How long would it take me to pull my Prius 50 miles? 
   Let me give another little example to help you understand the incredible energy density in these fossil fuels and how much they have improved our life and how totally dependent we are on them. 
   If a big man goes outside and is working really hard all day long doing physical work, I can get more work out of an electric motor for less than 25 cents' worth of electricity. That may be humbling to recognize that in terms of fossil fuel energy, our muscle power is worth less than 25 cents a day, but understanding that helps us to understand how totally dependent we have come to be on these fossil fuels. 
   A little later in his speech, Hyman Rickover said, ``I think no further elaboration is needed to demonstrate the significance of energy resources for our own future. Our civilization rests upon a technological base which requires enormous quantities of fossil fuels. What assurance do we then have that our energy needs will continue to be supplied by fossil fuels?'' And then this answer, 50 years ago, when we were king of oil, biggest producers, biggest consumers in the world, I think biggest exporters in the world, ``The answer is,'' he says, ``in the long run, none.'' 
   There is no assurance that we can have these fossil fuels for the long term. ``The earth is finite,'' he says. ``Fossil fuels are not renewable. In this respect our energy base differs from that of all earlier civilizations. They could have maintained their energy supply by careful cultivation,'' when we got our energy from the soil. ``We cannot. Fuel that has been burned is gone forever. Fuel is even more evanescent than metals. Metals, too, are nonrenewable resources threatened with ultimate extinction, but something can be salvaged from scrap. Fuel leaves no scrap and there is nothing man can do to rebuild exhausted fossil fuel reserves. They were created by solar energy,'' he says, ``500 million years ago and took eons to grow to their present volume.'' 
   Another quote from his talk. ``In the 8,000 years from the beginning of history to the year 2000 A.D., world population will have grown from 10 million to 4 billion.'' Actually, he missed it a little. It is now 7 billion, as you will see in a moment, ``with 90 percent of that growth taking place during the last 5 percent of that period, in 400 years. It took the first 3,000 years of recorded history to accomplish the first doubling of population, 100 years for the last doubling, but the next doubling will require only 50 years.'' As a matter of fact, it required less than that, because today we have about nearly 7 billion people in the world rather than just 4 billion. 
   Another quote from his talk. ``High-energy consumption has always been a prerequisite of political power ..... Ultimately,'' he says, ``the Nation which controls the largest energy resources will become dominant. If we give thought to the problem of energy resources, if we act wisely and in time to conserve what we have and prepare well for necessary future changes, we shall insure this dominant position for our own country.'' 
   Have we done that? In no way have we done that. 
   Another quote from his talk. ``I suggest that this is a good time to think soberly about our responsibilities to our descendants, those who will ring out the Fossil Fuel Age ..... We might even, if we wanted, give a break to these youngsters by cutting fuel and metal consumption,'' this was 50 years ago, ``by cutting fuel and metal consumption a little here and there so as to provide a safer margin for the necessary adjustments which eventually must be made in a world without fossil fuels.'' 
   I just came back about 3 weeks ago from a trip to China. Nine Members of Congress went. We met with a number of the top officials in China, and I was pleased and surprised. We went to talk about energy primarily, and they began every discussion of energy by talking about post-oil. Hyman Rickover 50 years ago understood that one day we would be talking about post-oil. The Chinese now are talking about post-oil. By the way, they do not mean that there is not going to be anymore oil in the world. Nobody is telling you that. 
   What they mean by post-oil is that it will be post the peak production of oil, where we can no longer produce additional oil so we are going to have to make do with what we have. As a matter of fact, each year after that there would be less and less oil available for us to use. 
   The next chart. There is nothing man can do to rebuild exhausted fossil fuel reserves, and this is part of the quote I just made. They were created by solar energy a very long time ago and took eons to grow into their present volume. In the face of the basic factor, fossil fuel reserves are finite. The exact length of time these reserves will last is important in only one respect. The longer they last, the more time do we have to invent ways of living off renewable substitute energy sources and to adjust our economy to the vast changes which we can expect from such a shift. This is 50 years ago.     
   He is saying the same thing that our President said last night in the State of the Union message, that we should get busy with preparing for a transition from fossil fuels to renewables. 
   Then I really love this quote. I am a father of 10, a grandfather of 15 and a great-grandfather of two. ``Fossil fuels resemble capital in the bank. A prudent and responsible parent will use his capital sparingly in order to pass on to his children as much as possible of his inheritance.'' 
   Do you think, Mr. Speaker, that we have been using fossil fuel energy sparingly? I doubt that you would find very much concurrence for this anywhere in this country, and certainly worldwide. When you look from other places to this country and see this one person out of 22 using 25 percent of all of the world's energy, you will have nobody over there saying we have used our energy sparingly. ``A selfish and irresponsible parent will squander it in riotous living and care not one whit how his offspring will fair.'' 
   I have characterized our relationship with energy as the equivalent of the  pig who found the feed room door open and just went in and pigged out. That is what we have been doing. When our children and our grandchildren and great grandchildren look back in a world with diminishing fossil fuel availability, and, by the way, saddled with a huge debt that we are passing on to them, they may well ask themselves the question, how could they have done it? 
   When we found this incredible wealth under the ground, that provides the equivalent of 33 servants, 100,000 people pushing your train, 244 people pushing your automobile down the road, when we found this incredible fuel fossil fuel energy under the ground, why didn't somebody stop and ask the question, what should we do with this to provide the most good for the most people for the longest time? That clearly is not what we did. 
   What we did was to extract this oil from the ground as quickly as possible; to use it as prolifically as possible; to develop a lifestyle ever more and more dependent on fossil fuel; to develop an agriculture where one person out of 50 feeds the rest and much of the world; where the man sits on top of a 150 horsepower tractor and uses fertilizers produced from natural gas to grow his crops. 
   The next chart here is a really interesting one. Suppose the size of the countries in the world was determined by how much oil they have. This is the world according to oil. If you look at our military might, if you look at our economic might, we are really big. But when you look at the oil we have, here we are, itty-bitty United States. Notice Alaska is pretty big here, a fair amount of oil up there. 
   But look at Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Kuwait. Little Kuwait. Look at a map and see how little Kuwait is. But look at the oil they have. This is what the world would like look like if the countries were sized relative to the amount of oil they have. 
   Look at Russia there. People talk about the huge reserves in Russia. It is dwarfed by Saudi Arabia and Iraq, and even little Kuwait has more oil than Russia. Look at Venezuela down here. It is probably twice the size of the United States in terms of what they have in oil. Look at some of the African countries here. Nigeria, what, way bigger than the United States. Libya, bigger than the United States in terms of the amount of oil that they have. 
   The next chart, this was predicted by that second famous speech that I mentioned that was given in the last century, and that is the talk given by M. King Hubbard on the 8th day of March, 1956, to a group of petroleum engineers in San Antonio, Texas, and a lot of other oilmen there. This was the time, you remember, when the United States was the biggest oil producer in the world, the biggest consumer of oil in the world, and I think maybe the biggest exporter of oil in the world. 
   What M. King Hubbard told hose assembled people was that in just about 14 years, the United States would reach its maximum oil production and then, no matter what we did, the oil production would drop off after that. 
   How did he know that that was going to happen? He had watched the exploitation and exhaustion of individual oil fields, and each one of them followed what we call a bell curve. That is a curve that goes ever up and up and reaches a peak and comes down the other side. You get a bell curve if you weigh people and see how much they weigh. There will be a few very light people, a few very heavy people. Most of them are in the middle. How tall people are, how many mice are in a litter of mice and so forth, most of the things in a natural world follow a bell curve. He predicted that we would follow a bell curve. 
   When he noticed each one of these little fields, he saw when they reached a peak, they had pumped about half of all the oil they would ever pump. So he theorized if he knew how many little fields we had, little bell curves, and how many more we were likely to find, and if you added all those up, you could predict when we would reach the peak. So he did that, and he said that was going to be about 1970. 
   And the Shell Oil Company, for whom he worked, said, please don't do that and embarrass us. You make a fool of yourself and embarrass yourself. He gave the talk and for a while he was kind of a humorous person. But then he became an icon in his own time, because right on schedule in 1970, we peaked in oil production. 
   Now, this curve that I have here is one that is taken from the Cambridge Energy Research Associates, and I use this especially because you may hear from these people, they are called CERA, and they are predicting that there is lots more oil out there, we are going to find a whole lot more oil, not to worry. They use this to make the point that M. King Hubbard really didn't know what he was talking about and he really was wrong. 
   They are saying that because the total U.S. production, and this, by the way, is with Prudo Bay and the Gulf of Mexico in, if you put only the lower 48 in, which is what M. King Hubbard was predicting, this was the actual on the green, and his prediction was the yellow here, and they said, gee, he was off. That doesn't look like it is very far off to me. 
   Let's look at another chart which shows the same data. This shows two peaks here. The smooth green symbols here are the prediction of M. King Hubbard. The more ragged ones are the actual data points. 
   You see right on schedule we peaked in 1970. We have been going down ever since. The red one is the former Soviet Union, FSU, and they kind of fell apart and didn't reach their potential. They are having a second little peak now and are going down. 
   Do you remember from that chart of the world according to oil, they were maybe twice the United States? They aren't using anywhere near as much oil as we are, so now they are a major exporter. But they don't have all that much oil. As you can see here, the area under this curve represents how much oil they have, the area under this curve represents how much oil we have, and you can see the general relationships there. 
   The next chart shows where our oil has come from. M. King Hubbard predicted only Texas and the rest of the United States, and that was his prediction and that was the actual data points. Then we found oil in Alaska and we learned to make oil from gas, non-gas liquids, natural 
   gas liquids. 
   This is the oil that we found in the Gulf of Mexico. You remember those fabled discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico? I remember them. We were home free. They were going to solve our oil problem for the foreseeable future. You can hardly see their contributions as we slid down the other side of Hubbard's peak. 
   The next chart shows another depiction of peak oil, and this is one again from Energy Information Area, the EIA, quoted in the Hirsch Report. Let me spend a moment on what the Hirsch Report is. 
   Our government has paid for two big studies of the fossil fuel energy situation. One of those was financed by the Department of Energy, done by SAIC, a very prestigious, large scientific organization, and Dr. Hirsch was the principal investigator there, so it is frequently referred to as the Hirsch Report. He here is reporting this information that came from our Energy Information Agency, which is a part of our Department of Energy. 
   Here they are using some very interesting statistical terms, but they aren't true statistical term. I have had the EIA people come in and talk with them at the office about this, because I had some trouble understanding it. 
   A couple of Congresses ago, I was the Chair of the Energy Subcommittee on Science and I wanted to determine the dimensions of the problem. So we had experts come in from around the world to tell us how much oil they thought remained in the world and how much more oil they thought we would find. 
   I was quite surprised at the relative unanimity. They all were pretty close to 1,000 gigabarrels, maybe 970 to 1,040. Now, I use gigabarrels instead of million barrels and that is because the British billion is not our billion. The British billion is a million million. Our billion is a thousand million. But everybody understands a giga. So when you hear ``giga'' used, you know that is an international term. A thousand gigabarrels, which is 1 trillion barrels of oil, that is what remains. 
   You remember at the peak of that curve, M. King Hubbard said about half of the oil would be used, so that means we have used about 1,000 gigabarrels, and here they have the total of 2,248 gigabarrels. So about half of that has  been used and about half of that remains. 
   Now, they are using some very interesting techniques here, and they did some simulations, and I have no idea what the inputs were into the simulations, but they have convinced themselves that there is a high probability that we will find twice as much more oil as all the oil that now exists out there unpumped. So they said gee, halfway between what they say is the low probability and the high probability is the mean, which is the expected yield. So they believe we are going to get, this is a total of 3,000, so we are going to get another 2,000 gigabarrels of oil. That is this red curve here. 
   What they show is that even if that is true, Mr. Speaker, even if that is true, and I think the odds that that is true are very small, but even if that is true, that pushes the peak out only to 2016. 
   What the dotted curve here shows is what you might be able to do with enhanced oil recovery, pump live steam down there and a bunch of solvents and push water in there, and maybe you can get it quicker. But if you get it quicker look what happens to the other side. Just a demonstration that you can't pump what is not there, and the total volume you will pump is the area under this curve. If you get it sooner, you won't have it later. Notice how quickly that curve drops down. 
   If they don't find the additional enormous quantities of oil that they believe they will find, then we are about here and the peak will occur at about 2005 or so, which is where M. King Hubbard said that the peak would occur. By the way, he predicted it in 1969, a year before the United States peak. He was confident enough of his analytical techniques that he predicted the world would be peaking about now. 
   The next chart is another chart from CERA, and it depicts some of the same information on that chart a little differently. 
   This is the curve, the peaking curve, if there is a roughly 2 trillion, 2000 gigabarrels. You will notice slightly different figures between these, because there is not unanimity on how much is there, but it is roughly 1.9 to 2.2. This is in the same ballpark. If that is the case, then peaking according to them is going to occur fairly soon according to them. 
   But if you find another 1 trillion barrels of oil, that pushes peaking out only to what, 2035, something like that. That is not all that far off. And the probability we are going to find that oil is very, very small, as we will see in a few moments. 
   Now he has piled on top of that, CERA has piled on top of that, an enormous amount of oil that they think we are going to get from unconventional oil sources. This is like the Canadian tar sands and like our oil shales out in the West. 
   We may or may not get enormous quantities of oil from that. There are potentially huge quantities there. There is more potential oil in the tar sands of Canada than all of the known reserves in the world. That big map we saw, there is more potential oil there. 
   But there is also an incredible amount of potential energy in the tides, but we have not been very successful in harnessing that energy from the tides. Canada is now getting about 1 million barrels of oil with a shovel that lifts 100 tons and dumps it into a truck that hauls 400 tons. They then haul it and cook it with enormous amounts of energy from natural gas, which is stranded. By ``stranded'' we mean there are not very many people there to use it.     
   Since it is expensive to ship, why, it is cheaper there, and so they are producing that oil at about 18 to 25 dollars a barrel. I understand they are getting 55, today, dollars a barrel for it. That is a pretty good dollar profit ratio. But they know this is not sustainable for several reasons. One is they are using water faster than they can supply it. The energy from the gas will run out. They are thinking of building a nuclear power plant, and they have a huge, relatively huge, lake there of tailing water they call it. It is really very toxic water, so there are huge environmental impacts of it. And furthermore, this vein of the tar sands will shortly duck under an overlay so that they will no longer be able to deadlift it or surface mine it, whatever you want to call it. They will now have to develop it in situ, and they have not even experimented with how they are going to do that. 
   The next chart has a little simple schematic. And by the way, you can make this peak look very hard and sharp or spread it out by the scale you use on the abscissa and the ordinate. Here we have spread it out because we have an expanded scale on the abscissa and a restricted one on the ordinate here. But that yellow area represents the additional oil we would like to have, because growth is exponential at about 2 percent. And if we reach the peak, I think we are about here. We are now having some problems with meeting the demand, which is why oil is going from 50 to 60 to 78 at the highest a few months ago. 
   And by the way, they showed undulating plateau in that last big chart I showed, and I agree with them. May I put that chart up for just another moment? That is a very interesting one. I want to focus on this. They are saying that there is no such thing as peak oil. And this is what they show. Tell me that is not a peak. This is from their publication. And it is an article where they are kind of pooh-poohing the idea of peak oil, and they are showing peak oil. For every potential level of oil that they think will be there, they are showing a peak. They are just showing it, and I agree with them that it is going to be undulating plateau. It is not going to be a smooth thing. The curve just under it shows it very smooth because we have simplified it. And what it shows is, and, by the way, the 2 percent growth, it doubles in 35 years. This point is doubled this point, so that is a 35-year period there. So you see it takes a while to get through that peak. 
   The next chart is one that if you had only one chart to look at and talk about relative to oil, this would be the chart. And you could spend a very long time looking at this chart and talking about it. The big bars here show the discoveries. And you notice that there was a rash of discoveries way back in the 1940s, 16 years before M. King Hubbert made his prediction. By the way, he made that prediction here in 1956, about here. Wow. Look how much more we discovered after that. And he was able to predict how much more we would discover and correctly predict when we would reach peak oil production. 
   The solid line here shows the consumption. And obviously up until about 1980 we were always finding more than we were consuming. Now, remember, underneath this curve represents all that we have used. So we have used this much of what we found. But this much of what we found was left over that we could use in the future. So ever since 1980, now, we have been finding less and less oil and using more and more oil. Notice a little stuttering here in the 1970s. The Arab oil embargo. The oil price spike hikes, the big push for efficiency in our country. Your air conditioner now uses about half the energy that it used in 1970. 
   Well, what will the future look like? The folks who put this chart together believe that peaking will occur at about 2010. Who knows? We really won't know until after it has peaked and you look back and see the data. It could be peaking now. It could be 5 years from now, it could be 10 years from now. But both of these are very, very short term in terms of what we need to do to address this. 
   What will the future look like? They have predicted that future oil discoveries will follow, and of course they won't be smooth like that, but on the average they will follow the curve like that. And you can't pump what you haven't found. And if you were to put a smooth curve over this discovery curve, and you have an area under that which will equal the amount which will be the total amount of oil you have found, that is adding up all these little bars here, and the area under that discovery curve cannot be different than the area ultimately under the consumption curve. So you can make this curve go, within limits, any way you want, within reason. You can use vigorous enhanced oil recovery techniques and get it out quicker, and you can maybe delay the peak a little bit. But you can't pump what is not there. And so it ultimately is going to fall off much, much faster. This is a very interesting chart. We could spend a lot of  time looking at this. But what you cannot do is pump oil that you have not found. 
   Now, what CERA is predicting is that you are going to find as much more oil as all of the reserves that now exist. The reserves that exist, and I calculated this, I think that this area pretty much fills in this. So the reserve that exists is this. They think we are going to find that much more oil? What do you think when you look at this chart? Do you think it is reasonable that they are going to find that much more oil? 
   Mr. Speaker, this is a chart which kind of smooths out those big different bar graphs that we saw before. Now, as early finds in the 19, here, they have a little spike here and a big spike here. You can smooth that whole thing out, of course. But this is roughly a graph drawn through the bar graphs on that previous chart. And now we are down here at this point in time. And the Energy Information Agency, using those three numbers that we used before, the 95 percent, which they say is low, the 50 percent, which they say is the mean, and the 5 percent, which they say is high, and they think that because the 50 percentile is halfway between the 95 and the 5, that that is the most likely thing. Well, anybody in statistics knows that if it is 95 percent more probable, it is more probable than 50 percent probable. That is pretty simple to understand, I think. 
   Well, the red dots here indicate what the actual data have been. Now, their projection was that this discovery line would follow the green. Clearly it has been following what you would expect it to follow, the 95 percent probability. 
   The next chart is an interesting one, and Hyman Rickover referred to this. He referred to 8,000 years of recorded history. And he, at that time, noted that they were about 100 years into the age of oil. Today we are about 150 years into the age of oil. And ultimately, out of 8,000 years of recorded history, the age of oil will be but a blip in the history of man. It will occupy maybe 300 years from when we first found it and started to really exploit it until it becomes so difficult to get and so expensive that we won't be getting much of it again. 
   This is a little chart that shows the development of the industrial revolution. It started with wood. Brown, here. The hills of New England were denuded carrying charcoal to England to make steel there. Come up to Frederick County where I live, and we have a little historic site up there, Catoctin Furnace. We denuded the hills up there where Camp David is now to make charcoal to make steel at Catoctin Furnace. 
   Then we discovered coal. And on the ordinate here, it is a quadrillion Btus, how much energy we were producing. Look how much more energy we were able to produce with coal. The coal locomotive. Lots more energy in coal than there is in wood, so we could do a lot more things with. 
   The industrial revolution was kind of stuttering when we discovered gas and oil, and then look what happened. And if you could superimpose on this a chart of the population growth in the world, it would look just about like this. Remember Hyman Rickover said that it was going to grow from that half billion back here to 4 billion? It really grew to almost 7 billion, which is where we are today. So that population curve with appropriate dimensions would just about follow exactly the energy use curve. This is an incredible amount of energy we are using that obviously could not continue. 
   A really interesting statistic. Up until the Carter years, every decade, the world used as much oil as it had used in all of previous history. That is this curve. Now, in the 1970s you see what happened. We really had a shock, and we stopped and took some sense of where we were. And we drove smaller cars, and we developed more efficient refrigerators and air conditioners, and we reduced energy. We had a big recession, a big worldwide recession as a result of that. So energy use went down. 
   But now look. It is climbing back up again. Three hundred years, the age of oil, it will be but a blip in the history of man. 
   Again, I ask, what will future people think when they look back at this and say, why didn't we stop when we found this incredible wealth under the ground to ask what could we do with this to get the most good for the most people for the longer time? That is obviously the question that almost nobody asked. What we asked was, how can we use more and more of this to improve more and more our quality of life, as if it were forever. Obviously, as Hyman Rickover said 50 years ago, it can't be forever. 
   The next chart is a really interesting one. As I mentioned, we are 1 person out of 22, and we use a fourth of the world's energy. Energy use is on the abscissa here, and how good you feel about life is on the ordinate. And notice that we are way out there. We feel pretty good about life, but not as good as many others. 
   We are just here. There are all of those who feel better about life. And we clearly are using the most energy. Only little Switzerland comes close to us in using energy. 
   Interesting chart here. If you could draw a line through this, you would see that with little energy it is really tough to feel good about life. But when you come up here to what, a fifth of the amount of energy we use, a lot of people, Colombia, Brazil, Mexico, China, they feel about as good about life as we do. If you look at the countries in Europe here, you will find that many of those use about half the energy we use, and they feel just as good about life as we feel. 
   What this points out is that it is possible to live a quality life using much less energy than we use, and all you have to do is to look at these countries that use very much less energy than we do and feel just about as good, and some of them better. All of these above my arm here feel better about life than we feel about life. And they are using less energy than we are using. 
   Well, what now? Well, obviously, we must transition. Geology will assure it, as anticipated by Hyman Rickover in that very fascinating speech to the physicians 50 years ago. We will transition ultimately as we go through the age of oil from the fossil fuels to renewables. We have available to us some finite sources, and I mentioned the tar sands, and we have about as large a potential supply of energy in our West called the oil shales, a little bit different. They aren't really oil. You put a solvent in, they won't flow out. But if you cook them, they will turn to oil, and you can then refine it. And there is potentially a huge amount of energy there. But can we get it? 
   The Shell Oil Company has gone there doing some experimentation. And a year or so ago I was a speaker out in Denver, Colorado, at the American chapter of the Peak Oil Association. And the investigator for the Shell Oil Company that conducted this little experiment was there and reported on it. And what he said in his report there was very different than the stories you read in the papers. The stories in the papers said, you know, don't worry about energy. We have this huge potential amount there, and we have found a way to get it. That is not what he said. 
   Let me tell you what they did. What they did was, and I am not sure of the reasoning because I hear two reasons for it. One was that there was an aquifer there they didn't want to contaminate. And the other had something to do with the mechanics of sequestering the oil. But they drilled a series of holes around the periphery, and then they froze the ground, and they froze it for a year so that now they had, in effect, a frozen vessel. 
   The second argument was that they did that to contain the heat. That is a little hard for me to understand how a frozen vessel contains heat, but that is the argument that I was given. Then at the end of the year they went in and drilled a second set of holes, and then they pumped heat down there, and they cooked it for a year. And then they drilled a third set of holes, and then when they got to the bottom of those holes, they turned it sideways, which they can do now, and drilled it horizontally. So the oil that was loosened by cooking it in the second set of wells they drilled now flowed down through the shale and was picked up by those horizontal channels from the third set of wells they drilled. And they pumped for several years a really meaningful amount of oil from that. So there is potentially a lot of oil there.     
   But what the investigator told us was that it would be, I think he said, something like 2013 before they could even decide whether it was economically feasible to develop those fields.  
   So there is huge potential there. There are also huge challenges there. But it is energy. We will develop some of it. But it is finite. It will not last forever either. And there is going to be enormous cost in developing it, both economic cost and environmental costs. 
   Now, you can trade the environmental cost for economic cost. If you do not mind polluting the environment you can develop it for less money. At the moment, most of us believe we should not be polluting our environment so we spend the money necessary that we do not, although they are not really doing that in Alberta, Canada. They are using up precious water, and they have a relatively huge lake of tailing water as they call it, which is really pretty toxic stuff. 
   Coal. We and China have a lot of coal. China was suffocating themselves with coal smoke. They closed down some of their coal-fired power plants. People will tell you that we have 500 years of coal. That is just not true. It is true that we have 250 years of coal at current use rates. We will put the next chart up in front of this one. 
   Be very careful when people tell you we have so much of something at current use rates. When Albert Einstein was asked what the next big force in the universe was going to be after nuclear energy, which had such a dramatic increase over any kind of energy we had before that, his answer was, compound interest, he said was the most powerful force in the universe. 
   And there is a really interesting talk given, he is not my relative, I wish he were so I had some of his genes, but Dr. Albert Bartlett, Professor Emeritus at the University of Colorado has given a talk on energy I think some 1,600 times. Just do Albert Bartlett and energy and you will pull it up. It was the most fascinating 1-hour talk I ever listened to, and I am sure you will agree. 
   But he says that the biggest failure of our industrialized society is our inability to understand the exponential function. You see this coal that will last us 250 years at current use rates if we increase its use only 2 percent, and we will have to do better than that. By the way, coal has been in the past a big source of gas and oil. 
   Hitler ran his whole country and his whole military on it. And when we were limiting the opportunities for trade in South Africa, they were making gas and oil from coal. When I was a little boy, it was coal oil. And I thought it was all one word, coal oil that replaced whale oil in the lamps. I kept calling it coal oil a long time after they were getting it from kerosene rather than coal. 
   But if you increase it just 2 percent, that shrinks its usable duration to about 85 years. But obviously for many of our uses you cannot use coal, you have got to use it as a gas or liquid. If you use some of the energy from the coal to make it into a gas or liquid you have now shrunk it to 50 years. 
   But the reality is that it does not matter who owns the resource today, it is all traded in a global marketplace. And the guy who has the dollars buys the oil or the gas. And so whether we like it or not, there is no alternative that we are going to share our oil with the world. Because, you see if we use oil from our coal, that just frees up some oil from pumping it out of the ground that somebody else can use. 
   So the effect is as if we were sharing our oil with the world so that 50 years from now, we use a fourth, you remember the rest of the world uses the other three-fourths, that means that now shrinks to 12 1/2 years. So that marvelous 200 years of coal at no growth for us now shrinks to 50 years when we increase its growth to only 2 percent, and use some of it, the energy, to convert it to gas and oil. And then we realize that we are going to have to share this, no alternative, unless we have a big enough Navy to say, it is ours and we can keep you from coming and getting it. We are going to have to share it with the world so now it lasts 12 1/2 years. 
   Let's go back to this chart. Going just for a few moments about nuclear. If you were in France, you would get about 80, 85 percent of all of your electricity from nuclear. We get in our country 20 percent of our electricity from nuclear, that is a lot. When you go home tonight look out your window, and every fifth business and every fifth house would be dark if it were not for nuclear energy. 
   We have never had an accident. We have never had a fatality. Three Mile Island, it behaved just as it was supposed to behave. I lived within the radiation zone of that. And we contained that. That was not a disaster. It was just a demonstration that we were building them right, because when we had the meltdown at Three Mile Island we contained that. There was little effect from it. 
   There are three different ways you can get nuclear energy. One is the way we get it from lightwater reactors. That uses fissionable uranium. There is a finite supply of fissionable uranium in the world. 
   And I get wildly divergent estimates of how long it will last, 15 years, 100 years. Again, this is at that current use rate. So you have to ask the person, what rate of use are you assuming when you make this projection? This reminds me, by the way, that we need an honest broker to help us agree on the facts. 
   It is hard to have a rational discussion when you cannot agree on the facts. And I think the right candidate to do this is the National Academy of Sciences. Enormously respected, very competent. And I have talked with them, and they would be interested in doing this. We just need to fund them so they can do it. 
   We need to have a rational discussion of this. And we cannot have that when there is big differences of opinion as to what the facts are. 
   Well, ultimately one day sooner or later, there will not be enough fissionable uranium to go to lightwater reactors. So then we are going to have to go to the second type of fission reactors, that is the breeder reactor. France already uses those. The only ones we had we used for making weapons. We now do not do that anymore. They have problems. 
   The big advantage, of course, is they are what the name implies, they are breeder reactors, they make more fuel that they use. The problems are that they have a byproduct that we must store away for a quarter of a million years. I cannot even imagine that. A quarter of a million years. 
   I think there is a challenge here. Anything that is so hot that has no much energy in it that I cannot get near it for a quarter of a million years, don't you think ought to have enough energy there that we can do something meaningful with it? 
   Now we have been profligate in our use of energy, all energy including nuclear energy. And we use only a tiny fraction of the nuclear energy in the isotope when we say it is no longer good for our reactors, so we put some more in. But I think there is a big challenge there. I think there is a potential source of energy from these byproducts. If it is so hot, such high radiation that I cannot get near it for a quarter of a 
   million years, it ought to have some usable energy in it. We have very creative, innovative people. I think that we can find that if we realize that we need to. 
   The third type of nuclear energy is the type that is represented in the sun and every other star out there in the Milky Way. The sun is a nuclear reactor. And it is fusion reaction, it is like our hydrogen bomb. By the way, it will one day run down too. But that will be in millions of years in the future, so in our context we do not need to think about that. 
   We have been spending money on fusion, about $250 million a year. We are always about 30 years away from a solution. I gladly would vote for the money that we spend there. I think that we have got to do that. If we can conquer the enormous engineering challenges then we are home free. That is the only energy source out there that can take the place of fossil fuels. But I think the odds of doing that are about the same as the odds of winning the lottery. And if you are satisfied that you are going to meet your financial obligations by playing the lottery, then you are probably satisfied that we are going to meet our energy needs with nuclear fusion. Please do not bet the ranch on it. 
   Well, once we have gone through these finite sources and we have done what we can with nuclear, I have friends that have been devoutly antinuclear, but they are very bright people. And when they are looking at a very probable alternative, that is, shivering in the dark, not enough energy to  keep warm, not enough energy to run the lights, nuclear does not look all that bad to many people who before were not enthusiastic about it when the alternative might be shivering in the dark. 
   Well, then we have renewable resources. And as Dr. Rickover said, by and by, we will have transitioned to these renewable resources. There will come a day when the fossil fuels are so scarce, so hard to get, so expensive, that we are getting little or none of them. And we will have, by that time, have transitioned, like it or not, we will have transitioned to these renewables. What are they? There is the sun. As I look at what the sun does, I am not surprised that the ancients worshiped the sun. 
   Almost all of the energy that we have been talking about here came from the sun. It was the sun that permitted the organic materials to grow in those subtropical seas that existed. The Earth, a long time ago, was much warmer than the Earth today. They were up there in the North Shore of Alaska, and in the North Sea off England producing these organic materials that settled to the bottom, infiltrated by runoff from the adjacent hills, probably. This is all theory. As good an explanation as I have heard as to how it got there. Tectonic moved. It opened up. It sank down. Near enough, proper pressure, proper heat, enough time, and by and by it becomes gas and oil, with a dome over so the gas cannot escape. 
   Then you have a good field. You get gas from it. You get oil from it. And if you drill into the oil and seal off the gas, the gas pressure above is putting pressure on the oil, so you have a gusher, it just pushes it up the pipe. So you see that this is the way it was formed. We have an explanation for what we find when we drill out there. 
   So all of the gas and oil came from the sun. When I was a little boy, we had a coal furnace. And we had run a mined coal from dust to big lumps, and some lumps so big that you could not put them in the furnace. And there was a sledgehammer by the wall, and we would break the lumps so we could get them in the furnace. 
   I remember as a little kid the feelings that I had, and I still get a chill when I think of this. I would break open the lump of that coal and there would be a fern leaf. You did not have to tell me where the coal came from. I knew where the coal came from. It came from ancient vegetation that grew and fell over and was covered up and ultimately became coal. We can see this process in the making in England, of the bogs there, it is not coal yet but you can take it out and burn it. 
   Wind. The wind blows because the sun shines. It is differential heating of the Earth that makes the wind blow. 
   Here is one that is not due to the sun. This is geothermal. True geothermal, not tying your heat pump to groundwater or earth, which makes a whole lot more sense than trying to coal the winter air and heat the summer air, which is what your radiational air conditioner and heat system, heat pump does. 
   But this is tapping into the heat from the molten core of the Earth. You go to Iceland, there is not a single chimney because they have a lot of geothermal, that is where they get their energy. 
   Ocean energy. Except for the tides, all of ocean energy is really a second-hand sun energy. It is the sun which differentially heats the waters. It is the sun which produces ultimately the Gulf Stream and the Japanese current, which carries so much warmth to northern Europe. Look at England on a globe. You will see that England is about mid-Canada, that is certainly not their climate, that is because of what the sun does in heating that water and setting up this conveyor belt. 
   The tides, of course, are produced by the Moon. There a lot of potential energy there. And then a very popular potential source of energy today, the President talked about it last night in his State of the Union, energy sources from agriculture. 
   Hyman Rickover in his speech here talked about that. And he said that ultimately, if you are getting energy from agriculture, you are going to be competing with one of two things, either you compete with food, and today corn is over $4 a barrel, it is ordinarily about $2 a barrel so that our dairy farmers and chicken farmers and hog farmers are now having a hard time making ends meet, because corn has about doubled in price, and that is because using corn for ethanol is competing with corn for food. 
   If we all became vegetarians, by the way, we would all have a whole lot more corn to use for energy. Soy diesel, biodiesel, these are all attractive sources. The second potential source of energy from agriculture was biomass. And the President talked a lot about that last night. 
   But Hyman Rickover very astutely noted that today's crops grow because last year's crops died and are fertilizing them. He noted that you will need to return the biomass to the soils if you are going to keep productivity going.     
   Now, we can get some energy from ethanol, and we can get some energy from biomass by burning it or fermenting it, but there are limits as to how much we can get there. And the incredible amount of energy that we use from fossil fuels presents a huge challenge to try to find enough disparate sources of energy to add up to equal the energy that we get there. 
   Waste energy, that is an interesting one, and we ought to be doing more of that. It is a very good idea. But remember, that big pile of waste that you see at the city dump is the result of profligate use of energy. In an energy-deficient world, we are not going to have those huge piles of waste. That is really secondhand use of fossil fuels because that is how the waste got there. 
   Hydrogen. Hydrogen is not an energy source. We must make hydrogen. The second law of thermal dynamics says you will always get less energy out of hydrogen than it took to make it. So why are we talking about hydrogen? For two reasons. One, when you burn it, it is really clean. You get water. 
   Secondly, if we ever get an economically feasible fuel cell, hydrogen is a great candidate for the fuel cell. But minus a good fuel cell, there will not be a viable hydrogen economy because you will always get less energy out of hydrogen than it took to make it. If you are simply burning the hydrogen, you could have gotten more energy by burning the gas from which you got the electricity which you used to split the water to get hydrogen. 
   So that is why there is such a focus on fuel cells, because it opens up the promise of a really clean fuel with at least twice the efficiency of the reciprocating engine. 
   The next chart, and I would like to talk about this one in terms of a young couple whose grandparents have died and left them a big inheritance, and they have now established a life-style. Hyman Rickover described that life-style with 33 servants, or the equivalent. They have established a life-style where 85 percent of the money they spend comes from their grandparents' inheritance, and only 15 percent comes from their income. It is not going to last long enough for them to retire. They have to do something. They have to spend less money or make more money. 
   That is exactly where we are energywise. Eighty-five percent of our energy comes from fossil fuels: coal, petroleum, natural gas. Only 15 percent comes from other sources, and a bit more than half of that comes from nuclear. That could grow, and probably should grow. And that leaves 7 percent, and this is in 2000. We are a little better today than we were in 2000, but the challenges are huge. Even with 30 percent growth, when you are going from 0.07 percent, in 2000 that is the contribution that solar made to our energy supply. It is minuscule. And the noise level. 
   We are doing much better today, and it is growing rapidly, but it is still a tiny fraction of the energy we use. 
   Notice wood here, more than a third of all of the renewables. That is the timber industry and the paper industry wisely using a by-product. 
   Waste to energy we talked about. 
   Wind is just another way to use sun energy. 
   Conventional hydro, we have maxed out on that. We can maybe get some microhydro. We have about maxed out on that. 
   The next chart, briefly, what do we need to do. We need a program, if we  are going to have a relatively smooth ride, and we have waited too long to address this problem, but we need a program that has the total commitment of World War II, that has the technology focus of putting a man on the moon, and has the urgency of the Manhattan Project. 
   We need a vigorous conservation time to buy time, free up some energy, buy some time, use it wisely, invest it in those things that will do the most good for the most people. We could become a major exporter. We have a very innovative society. We have a farm bill that is challenging our farmers. And if a farm can't be energy independent, we have big problems because that is where a lot of energy could be produced. 
   This is challenging our farm people to develop a farm where they produce twice as much energy as they use so there is some for the city person. 
   Mr. Speaker, www.bartlett.house.gov will get you access to all of this material.  
   Mr. Speaker, I submit into the Congressional Record the entire speech ``Energy Resources and Our Future,'' by Admiral Hyman Rickover, Chief, Naval Reactors Branch, Division of Reactor Development, U.S. Atomic Energy Commission and Assistant Chief of the Bureau of Ships for Nuclear Propulsion, Navy Department, prepared for delivery at a Banquet of the Annual Scientific Assembly of the Minnesota State Medical Association, St. Paul, Minnesota on May 14, 1957.  
   Energy Resources and Our Future 
   I am honored to be here tonight, though it is no easy thing, I assure you, for a layman to face up to an audience of physicians. A single one of you, sitting behind his desk, can be quite formidable. 
   My speech has no medical connotations. This may be a relief to you after the solid professional fare you have been absorbing. I should like to discuss a matter which will, I hope, be of interest to you as responsible citizens: the significance of energy resources in the shaping of our future. 
   We live in what historians may some day call the Fossil Fuel Age. Today coal, oil, and natural gas supply 93% of the world's energy; water power accounts for only 1%; and the labor of men and domestic animals the remaining 6%. This is a startling reversal of corresponding figures for 1850--only a century ago. Then fossil fuels supplied 5% of the world's energy, and men and animals 94%. Five sixths of all the coal, oil, and gas consumed since the beginning of the Fossil Fuel Age has been burned up in the last 55 years. 
   These fuels have been known to man for more than 3,000 years. In parts of China, coal was used for domestic heating and cooking, and natural gas for lighting as early as 1000 B.C. The Babylonians burned asphalt a thousand years earlier. But these early uses were sporadic and of no economic significance. Fossil fuels did not become a major source of energy until machines running on coal, gas, or oil were invented. Wood, for example, was the most important fuel until 1880 when it was replaced by coal; coal, in turn, has only recently been surpassed by oil in this country. 
   Once in full swing, fossil fuel consumption has accelerated at phenomenal rates. All the fossil fuels used before 1900 would not last five years at today's rates of consumption. 
   Nowhere are these rates higher and growing faster than in the United States. Our country, with only 6% of the world's population, uses one third of the world's total energy input; this proportion would be even greater except that we use energy more efficiently than other countries. Each American has at his disposal, each year, energy equivalent to that obtainable from eight tons of coal. This is six times the world's per capita energy consumption. Though not quite so spectacular, corresponding figures for other highly industrialized countries also show above average consumption figures. The United Kingdom, for example, uses more than three times as much energy as the world average. 
   With high energy consumption goes a high standard of living. Thus the enormous fossil energy which we in this country control feeds machines which make each of us master of an army of mechanical slaves. Man's muscle power is rated at 35 watts continuously, or one-twentieth horsepower. Machines therefore furnish every American industrial worker with energy equivalent to that of 244 men, while at least 2,000 men push his automobile along the road, and his family is supplied with 33 faithful household helpers. Each locomotive engineer controls energy equivalent to that of 100,000 men; each jet pilot of 700,000 men. Truly, the humblest American enjoys the services of more slaves than were once owned by the richest nobles, and lives better than most ancient kings. In retrospect, and despite wars, revolutions, and disasters, the hundred years just gone by may well seem like a Golden Age. 
   Whether this Golden Age will continue depends entirely upon our ability to keep energy supplies in balance with the needs of our growing population. Before I go into this question, let me review briefly the role of energy resources in the rise and fall of civilizations. 
   Possession of surplus energy is, of course, a requisite for any kind of civilization, for if man possesses merely the energy of his own muscles, he must expend all his strength--mental and physical--to obtain the bare necessities of life. 
   Surplus energy provides the material foundation for civilized living--a comfortable and tasteful home instead of a bare shelter; attractive clothing instead of mere covering to keep warm; appetizing food instead of anything that suffices to appease hunger. It provides the freedom from toil without which there can be no art, music, literature, or learning. There is no need to belabor the point. What lifted man--one of the weaker mammals--above the animal world was that he could devise, with his brain, ways to increase the energy at his disposal, and use the leisure so gained to cultivate his mind and spirit. Where man must rely solely on the energy of his own body, he can sustain only the most meager existence. 
   Man's first step on the ladder of civilization dates from his discovery of fire and his domestication of animals. With these energy resources he was able to build a pastoral culture. To move upward to an agricultural civilization he needed more energy. In the past this was found in the labor of dependent members of large patriarchal families, augmented by slaves obtained through purchase or as war booty. There are some backward communities which to this day depend on this type of energy. 
   Slave labor was necessary for the city-states and the empires of antiquity; they frequently had slave populations larger than their free citizenry. As long as slaves were abundant and no moral censure attached to their ownership, incentives to search for alternative sources of energy were lacking; this may well have been the single most important reason why engineering advanced very little in ancient times. 
   A reduction of per capita energy consumption has always in the past led to a decline in civilization and a reversion to a more primitive way of life. For example, exhaustion of wood fuel is believed to have been the primary reason for the fall of the Mayan Civilization on this continent and of the decline of once flourishing civilizations in Asia. India and China once had large forests, as did much of the Middle East. Deforestation not only lessened the energy base but had a further disastrous effect: lacking plant cover, soil washed away, and with soil erosion the nutritional base was reduced as well. 
   Another cause of declining civilization comes with pressure of population on available land. A point is reached where the land can no longer support both the people and their domestic animals. Horses and mules disappear first. Finally even the versatile water buffalo is displaced by man who is two and one half times as efficient an energy converter as are draft animals. It must always be remembered that while domestic animals and agricultural machines increase productivity per man, maximum productivity per acre is achieved only by intensive manual cultivation. 
   It is a sobering thought that the impoverished people of Asia, who today seldom go to sleep with their hunger completely satisfied, were once far more civilized and lived much better than the people of the West. And not so very long ago, either. It was the stories brought back by Marco Polo of the marvelous civilization in China which turned Europe's eyes to the riches of the East, and induced adventurous sailors to brave the high seas in their small vessels searching for a direct route to the fabulous Orient. The ``wealth of the Indies'' is a phrase still used, but whatever wealth may be there it certainly is not evident in the life of the people today. 
   Asia failed to keep technological pace with the needs of her growing populations and sank into such poverty that in many places man has become again the primary source of energy, since other energy converters have become too expensive. This must be obvious to the most casual observer. What this means is quite simply a reversion to a more primitive stage of civilization with all that it implies for human dignity and happiness. 
   Anyone who has watched a sweating Chinese farm worker strain at his heavily laden wheelbarrow, creaking along a cobblestone road, or who has flinched as he drives past an endless procession of human beasts of burden moving to market in Java--the slender women bent under mountainous loads heaped on their heads--anyone who has seen statistics translated into flesh and bone, realizes the degradation of man's stature when his muscle power becomes the only energy source he can afford. Civilization must wither when human beings are so degraded. 
   Where slavery represented a major source of energy, its abolition had the immediate effect of reducing energy consumption. Thus when this time-honored institution came under moral censure by Christianity, civilization declined until other sources of energy could be found. Slavery is incompatible with Christian belief in the worth of the humblest individual as a child of God. As Christianity spread through the Roman Empire and masters freed their slaves--in obedience to the teaching of the Church--the energy base of Roman civilization crumbled. This, some historians believe, may have been a major factor in the decline of Rome and the temporary reversion to a more primitive way of life during the Dark Ages. Slavery gradually disappeared throughout the Western world, except in its milder form of serfdom. That it was revived a thousand years later merely shows man's ability to stifle his conscience--  at least for a while--when his economic needs are great. Eventually, even the needs of overseas plantation economies did not suffice to keep alive a practice so deeply repugnant to Western man's deepest convictions. 
   It may well be that it was unwillingness to depend on slave labor for their energy needs which turned the minds of medieval Europeans to search for alternate sources of energy, thus sparking the Power Revolution of the Middle Ages which, in turn, paved the way for the Industrial Revolution of the 19th Century. When slavery disappeared in the West engineering advanced. Men began to harness the power of nature by utilizing water and wind as energy sources. The sailing ship, in particular, which replaced the slave-driven galley of antiquity, was vastly improved by medieval shipbuilders and became the first machine enabling man to control large amounts of inanimate energy. 
   The next important high-energy converter used by Europeans was gunpowder--an energy source far superior to the muscular strength of the strongest bowman or lancer. With ships that could navigate the high seas and arms that could outfire any hand weapon, Europe was now powerful enough to preempt for herself the vast empty areas of the Western Hemisphere into which she poured her surplus populations to build new nations of European stock. With these ships and arms she also gained political control over populous areas in Africa and Asia from which she drew the raw materials needed to speed her industrialization, thus complementing her naval and military dominance with economic and commercial supremacy. 
   When a low-energy society comes in contact with a high-energy society, the advantage always lies with the latter. The Europeans not only achieved standards of living vastly higher than those of the rest of the world, but they did this while their population was growing at rates far surpassing those of other peoples. In fact, they doubled their share of total world population in the short span of three centuries. From one sixth in 1650, the people of European stock increased to almost one third of total world population by 1950. 
   Meanwhile much of the rest of the world did not even keep energy sources in balance with population growth. Per capita energy consumption actually diminished in large areas. It is this difference in energy consumption which has resulted in an ever-widening gap between the one-third minority who live in high-energy countries and the two-thirds majority who live in low-energy areas. 
   These so-called underdeveloped countries are now finding it far more difficult to catch up with the fortunate minority than it was for Europe to initiate transition from low-energy to high-energy consumption. For one thing, their ratio of land to people is much less favorable; for another, they have no outlet for surplus populations to ease the transition since all the empty spaces have already been taken over by people of European stock. 
   Almost all of today's low-energy countries have a population density so great that it perpetuates dependence on intensive manual agriculture which alone can yield barely enough food for their people. They do not have enough acreage, per capita, to justify using domestic animals or farm machinery, although better seeds, better soil management, and better hand tools could bring some improvement. A very large part of their working population must nevertheless remain on the land, and this limits the amount of surplus energy that can be produced. Most of these countries must choose between using this small energy surplus to raise their very low standard of living or postpone present rewards for the sake of future gain by investing the surplus in new industries. The choice is difficult because there is no guarantee that today's denial may not prove to have been in vain. This is so because of the rapidity with which public health measures have reduced mortality rates, resulting in population growth as high or even higher than that of the high-energy nations. Theirs is a bitter choice; it accounts for much of their anti-Western feeling and may well portend a prolonged period of world instability. 
   How closely energy consumption is related to standards of living may be illustrated by the example of India. Despite intelligent and sustained efforts made since independence, India's per capita income is still only 20 cents daily; her infant mortality is four times ours; and the life expectance of her people is less than one half that of the industrialized countries of the West. These are ultimate consequences of India's very low energy consumption: one-fourteenth of world average; one-eightieth of ours. 
   Ominous, too, is the fact that while world food production increased 9% in the six years from 1945-51, world population increased by 12%. Not only is world population increasing faster than world food production, but unfortunately, increases in food production tend to occur in the already well-fed, high-energy countries rather than in the undernourished, low-energy countries where food is most lacking. 
   I think no further elaboration is needed to demonstrate the significance of energy resources for our own future. Our civilization rests upon a technological base which requires enormous quantities of fossil fuels. What assurance do we then have that our energy needs will continue to be supplied by fossil fuels: The answer is--in the long run--none. 
   The earth is finite. Fossil fuels are not renewable. In this respect our energy base differs from that of all earlier civilizations. They could have maintained their energy supply by careful cultivation. We cannot. Fuel that has been burned is gone forever. Fuel is even more evanescent than metals. Metals, too, are non-renewable resources threatened with ultimate extinction, but something can be salvaged from scrap. Fuel leaves no scrap and there is nothing man can do to rebuild exhausted fossil fuel reserves. They were created by solar energy 500 million years ago and took eons to grow to their present volume. 
   In the face of the basic fact that fossil fuel reserves are finite, the exact length of time these reserves will last is important in only one respect: the longer they last, the more time do we have, to invent ways of living off renewable or substitute energy sources and to adjust our economy to the vast changes which we can expect from such a shift. 
   Fossil fuels resemble capital in the bank. A prudent and responsible parent will use his capital sparingly in order to pass on to his children as much as possible of his inheritance. A selfish and irresponsible parent will squander it in riotous living and care not one whit how his offspring will fare. 
   Engineers whose work familiarizes them with energy statistics; far-seeing industrialists who know that energy is the principal factor which must enter into all planning for the future; responsible governments who realize that the well-being of their citizens and the political power of their countries depend on adequate energy supplies--all these have begun to be concerned about energy resources. In this country, especially, many studies have been made in the last few years, seeking to discover accurate information on fossil-fuel reserves and foreseeable fuel needs. 
   Statistics involving the human factor are, of course, never exact. The size of usable reserves depends on the ability of engineers to improve the efficiency of fuel extraction and use. It also depends on discovery of new methods to obtain energy from inferior resources at costs which can be borne without unduly depressing the standard of living. Estimates of future needs, in turn, rely heavily on population figures which must always allow for a large element of uncertainty, particularly as man reaches a point where he is more and more able to control his own way of life. 
   Current estimates of fossil fuel reserves vary to an astonishing degree. In part this is because the results differ greatly if cost of extraction is disregarded or if in calculating how long reserves will last, population growth is not taken into consideration; or, equally important, not enough weight is given to increased fuel consumption required to process inferior or substitute metals. We are rapidly approaching the time when exhaustion of better grade metals will force us to turn to poorer grades requiring in most cases greater expenditure of energy per unit of metal. 
   But the most significant distinction between optimistic and pessimistic fuel reserve statistics is that the optimists generally speak of the immediate future--the next twenty-five years or so--while the pessimists think in terms of a century from now. A century or even two is a short span in the history of a great people. It seems sensible to me to take a long view, even if this involves facing unpleasant facts. 
   For it is an unpleasant fact that according to our best estimates, total fossil fuel reserves recoverable at not over twice today's unit cost, are likely to run out at some time between the years 2000 and 2050, if present standards of living and population growth rates are taken into account. Oil and natural gas will disappear first, coal last. There will be coal left in the earth, of course. But it will be so difficult to mine that energy costs would rise to economically intolerable heights, so that it would then become necessary either to discover new energy sources or to lower standards of living drastically. 
   For more than one hundred years we have stoked ever growing numbers of machines with coal; for fifty years we have pumped gas and oil into our factories, cars, trucks, tractors, ships, planes, and homes without giving a thought to the future. Occasionally the voice of a Cassandra has been raised only to be quickly silenced when a lucky discovery revised estimates of our oil reserves upward, or a new coalfield was found in some remote spot. Fewer such lucky discoveries can be expected in the future, especially in industrialized countries where extensive mapping of resources has been done. Yet the popularizers of scientific news would have us believe that there is no cause for anxiety, that reserves will last thousands of years, and that before they run out science will have produced miracles. Our past history and security have given us the sentimental belief that the things we fear will never really happen--that everything turns out right in the end. But, prudent men will reject these tranquilizers and prefer to face the facts so that they can plan intelligently for the needs of their posterity. 
   Looking into the future, from the mid-20th Century, we cannot feel overly confident that present high standards of living will of a certainty continue through the next century and beyond. Fossil fuel costs will soon definitely begin to rise as the best and most accessible reserves are exhausted, and more effort will be required to obtain the same energy from remaining reserves. It is likely also that liquid fuel synthesized from coal will be more expensive. Can we feel certain that when economically recoverable fossil  fuels are gone science will have learned how to maintain a high standard of living on renewable energy sources? 
   I believe it would be wise to assume that the principal renewable fuel sources which we can expect to tap before fossil reserves run out will supply only 7 to 15% of future energy needs. The five most important of these renewable sources are wood fuel, farm wastes, wind, water power, and solar heat. 
   Wood fuel and farm wastes are dubious as substitutes because of growing food requirements to be anticipated. Land is more likely to be used for food production than for tree crops; farm wastes may be more urgently needed to fertilize the soil than to fuel machines. 
   Wind and water power can furnish only a very small percentage of our energy needs. Moreover, as with solar energy, expensive structures would be required, making use of land and metals which will also be in short supply. Nor would anything we know today justify putting too much reliance on solar energy though it will probably prove feasible for home heating in favorable localities and for cooking in hot countries which lack wood, such as India. 
   More promising is the outlook for nuclear fuels. These are not, properly speaking, renewable energy sources, at least not in the present state of technology, but their capacity to ``breed'' and the very high energy output from small quantities of fissionable material, as well as the fact that such materials are relatively abundant, do seem to put nuclear fuels into a separate category from exhaustible fossil fuels. The disposal of radioactive wastes from nuclear power plants is, however, a problem which must be solved before there can be any widespread use of nuclear power. 
   Another limit in the use of nuclear power is that we do not know today how to employ it otherwise than in large units to produce electricity or to supply heating. Because of its inherent characteristics, nuclear fuel cannot be used directly in small machines, such as cars, trucks, or tractors. It is doubtful that it could in the foreseeable future furnish economical fuel for civilian airplanes or ships, except very large ones. Rather than nuclear locomotives, it might prove advantageous to move trains by electricity produced in nuclear central stations. We are only at the beginning of nuclear technology, so it is difficult to predict what we may expect. 
   Transportation--the lifeblood of all technically advanced civilizations--seems to be assured, once we have borne the initial high cost of electrifying railroads and replacing buses with streetcars or interurban electric trains. But, unless science can perform the miracle of synthesizing automobile fuel from some energy source as yet unknown or unless trolley wires power electric automobiles on all streets and highways, it will be wise to face up to the possibility of the ultimate disappearance of automobiles, trucks,  buses, and tractors. Before all the oil is gone and hydrogenation of coal for synthetic liquid fuels has come to an end, the cost of automotive fuel may have risen to a point where private cars will be too expensive to run and public transportation again becomes a profitable business. 
   Today the automobile is the most uneconomical user of energy. Its efficiency is 5 percent compared with 23 percent for the Diesel-electric railway. It is the most ravenous devourer of fossil fuels, accounting for over half of the total oil consumption in this country. And the oil we use in the United States in one year took nature about 14 million years to create. Curiously, the automobile, which is the greatest single cause of the rapid exhaustion of oil reserves, may eventually be the first fuel consumer to suffer. Reduction in automotive use would necessitate an extraordinarily costly reorganization of the pattern of living in industrialized nations, particularly in the United States. It would seem prudent to bear this in mind in future planning of cities and industrial locations. 
   Our present known reserves of fissionable materials are many times as large as our net economically recoverable reserves of coal. A point will be reached before this century is over when fossil fuel costs will have risen high enough to make nuclear fuels economically competitive. Before that time comes we shall have to make great efforts to raise our entire body of engineering and scientific knowledge to a higher plateau. We must also induce many more young Americans to become metallurgical and nuclear engineers. Else we shall not have the knowledge or the people to build and run the nuclear power plants which ultimately may have to furnish the major part of our energy needs. If we start to plan now, we may be able to achieve the requisite level of scientific and engineering knowledge before our fossil fuel reserves give out, but the margin of safety is not large. This is also based on the assumption that atomic war can be avoided and that population growth will not exceed that now calculated by demographic experts. 
   War, of course, cancels all man's expectations. Even growing world tension just short of war could have far-reaching effects. In this country it might, on the one hand, lead to greater conservation of domestic fuels, to increased oil imports, and to an acceleration in scientific research which might turn up unexpected new energy sources. On the other hand, the resulting armaments race would deplete metal reserves more rapidly, hastening the day when inferior metals must be utilized with consequent greater expenditure of energy. Underdeveloped nations with fossil fuel deposits might be coerced into withholding them from the free world or may themselves decide to retain them for their own future use. The effect on Europe, which depends on coal and oil imports, would be disastrous and we would have to share our own supplies or lose our allies. 
   Barring atomic war or unexpected changes in the population curve, we can count on an increase in world population from two and one half billion today to four billion in the year 2000; six to eight billion by 2050. The United States is expected to quadruple its population during the 20th Century--from 75 million in 1900 to 300 million in 2000--and to reach at least 375 million in 2050. This would almost exactly equal India's present population which she supports on just a little under half of our land area. 
   It is an awesome thing to contemplate a graph of world population growth from prehistoric times--tens of thousands of years ago--to the day after tomorrow--let us say the year 2000 AD. If we visualize the population curve as a road which starts at sea level and rises in proportion as world population increases, we should see it stretching endlessly, almost level, for 99 percent of the time that man has inhabited the earth. In 6000 B.C., when recorded history begins, the road is running at a height of about 70 feet above sea level, which corresponds to a population of 10 million. Seven thousand years later--in 1000 AD.--the road has reached an elevation of 1,600 feet; the gradation now becomes steeper, and 600 years later the road is 2,900 feet high. During the short span of the next 400 years--from 1600 to 2000--it suddenly turns sharply upward at an almost perpendicular inclination and goes straight up to an elevation of 29,000 feet--the height of Mt. Everest, the world's tallest mountain. 
   In the 8,000 years from the beginning of history to the year 2000 AD. world population will have grown from 10 million to 4 billion, with 90 percent of that growth taking place during the last 5 percent of that period, in 400 years. It took the first 3,000 years of recorded history to accomplish the first doubling of population, 100 years for the last doubling, but the next doubling will require only 50 years. Calculations give us the astonishing estimate that one out of every 20 human beings born into this world is alive today. 
   The rapidity of population growth has not given us enough time to readjust our thinking. Not much more than a century ago our country--the very spot on which I now stand was a wilderness in which a pioneer could find complete freedom from men and from government. If things became too crowded--if he saw his neighbor's chimney smoke--he could, and often did, pack up and move west. We began life in 1776 as a nation of less than four million people--spread over a vast continent--with seemingly inexhaustible riches of nature all about. We conserved what was scarce--human labor--and squandered what seemed abundant--natural resources--and we are still doing the same today. 
   Much of the wilderness which nurtured what is most dynamic in the American character has now been buried under cities, factories and suburban developments where each picture window looks out on nothing more inspiring than the neighbor's back yard with the smoke of his fire in the wire basket clearly visible. 
   Life in crowded communities cannot be the same as life on the frontier. We are no longer free, as was the pioneer--to work for our own immediate needs regardless of the future. We are no longer as independent of men and of government as were Americans two or three generations ago. An ever larger share of what we earn must go to solve problems caused by crowded living--bigger governments; bigger city, state, and federal budgets to pay for more public services. Merely to supply us with enough water and to carry away our waste products becomes more difficult and expansive daily. More laws and law enforcement agencies are needed to regulate human relations in urban industrial communities and on crowded highways than in the America of Thomas Jefferson.  
   Certainly no one likes taxes, but we must become reconciled to larger taxes in the larger America of tomorrow. 
   I suggest that this is a good time to think soberly about our responsibilities to our descendents--those who will ring out the Fossil Fuel Age. Our greatest responsibility, as parents and as citizens, is to give America's youngsters the best possible education. We need the best teachers and enough of them to prepare our young people for a future immeasurably more complex than the present, and calling for ever larger numbers of competent and highly trained men and women. This means that we must not delay building more schools, colleges, and playgrounds. It means that we must reconcile ourselves to continuing higher taxes to build up and maintain at decent salaries a greatly enlarged corps of much better trained teachers, even at the cost of denying ourselves such momentary pleasures as buying a bigger new car, or a TV set, or household gadget. We should find--I believe--that these small self-denials would be far more than offset by the benefits they would buy for tomorrow's America. We might even--if we wanted--give a break to these youngsters by cutting fuel and metal consumption a little here and there so as to provide a safer margin for the necessary adjustments which eventually must be made in a world without fossil fuels. 
   One final thought I should like to leave with you. High-energy consumption has always been a prerequisite of political power.  The tendency is for political power to be concentrated in an ever-smaller number of countries. Ultimately, the nation which controls the largest energy resources will become dominant. If we give thought to the problem of energy resources, if we act wisely and in time to conserve what we have and prepare well for necessary future changes, we shall insure this dominant position for our own country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
   I have been, for the last couple of hours, doing what is seldom done in this House. I have been listening to every minute of this debate. And I felt compelled to come to the floor. 
   When I was listening to the debate, I was reminded of the story of the father who was looking at the white shirt that he wore yesterday to see if he could wear it again.     
   And his daughter observed, daddy, if it's doubtful, it's dirty. And I thought of that when I was listening to this debate because obviously this bill is doubtful. We're amending it on the run. And I wonder if, Mr. Chairman, maybe the little girl isn't right, that if it's doubtful, it's dirty. 
   There's been a lot of talk about protecting the rights of the little guy. In a former life, I had 20 patents. And I'm really committed to protecting the rights of the little guy because I was a little guy, not just because of the little guy, but because most of our creativity and innovation comes from the little guy. 
   And what I would suggest is that if this bill is so flawed that we're modifying it, amending it on the run and hope to make it okay when we come to conference, wouldn't it be better just to send it back to committee and do it right the first time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PATENT REFORM ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. I just wanted to clarify the basis for my observation that the bill was being amended on the run. I was simply quoting the chairman, who said that they worked late last night changing the manager's amendment, that they were going to continue to work through conference so that they could change the bill to make it better. So obviously the bill is being amended and being changed on the run. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson-Lee). 
   The question was taken; and the Acting Chairman announced that the ayes appeared to have it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Madam Chairman, I hold here a major study done by the Center for Naval Analysis entitled ``National Security and the Threat of Climate Change.'' Their Military Advisory Board contains five admirals and four generals, including Sullivan, Lopez and Zinni. 
   In their recommendations, ``Recommendation No. 1,'' they say the national security consequences of climate change should be fully integrated with national security and national defense strategies. Two of the specifics of this have been included in the National Defense Authorization Act, including the National Security Strategy, the National Defense Strategy and the Quadrennial Defense Review, all of which, they say, should consider climate change. A specific related to the intelligence community should incorporate climate consequences into its National Intelligence Estimate. 
   A letter from the chairman of this board said that ``we made that call because we are concerned that climate change may affect our military.'' 
   This conservative Republican proudly joined Mr. Markey in requesting that this become a part of the base bill; and thank you, Mr. Chairman, for making it so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that my colleagues for the last hour helped to make the point that oil is high and gasoline is high because there is an imbalance between supply and demand. There are a lot of differences of opinion as to how we got here, why we're here and what we ought to do to reduce the price of gas. 
   The next chart is really an historical one. This whole saga begins in 1956 when a geologist of the Shell Oil Company gave a talk to a group of physicians on the 8th day of March in San Antonio, Texas. And he made a prediction which was an audacious prediction then. At that time, the United States was the king of oil. We were producing more oil, using more oil and exporting more oil than any other country in the world. Here we were in 1956. He predicted that just 14 years later, in 1970, the United States would reach its maximum oil production. That was sheer heresy then. Nobody believed him. He was ridiculed. But right on schedule, 14 years later, in 1970, the United States peaked in oil production. 
   Now he was predicting this for only the lower 48 States, which is shown here, Texas plus the rest of the United States. Then we found a lot of oil in Alaska. We found some oil in the Gulf of Mexico. And we learned more and more how to get oil from natural gas liquids. By 1980, looking back, you can see, gee, M. King Hubbert was really right, wasn't he? We did reach maximum oil production in 1970. I'm going to keep coming back to that.  
   The next chart shows this same curve. If you will look at the red lines, that is up to 1970 and after 1970. The yellow triangles represent the prediction of M. King Hubbert for the lower 48. The red diamonds are what we actually produced because we found additional oil in Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico that he did not include in his prediction. But notice that that just produced a blip in the slide down the other side of Hubbert's peak. And there was a lot of oil. Alaska alone for several years was one-fourth of our total production of oil. 
   This chart is presented by Cambridge Energy Research Associates to convince you that M. King Hubbert didn't know what he was talking about. Now if you were a statistician, you might be convinced. But for the average American, they don't see this yellow triangle curve being meaningfully different from the green squares. And the intent of this presentation by CERA was to convince you that you really shouldn't believe M. King Hubbert when he predicted that the world was going to be peaking in oil about now because he was wrong about his prediction of peaking in 1970. I would think just about everybody would say, gee, he got it pretty right, didn't he? He predicted this, and this is what it was, and that seems to follow pretty closely. 
   Now what do we mean by ``peaking?'' By ``peaking'' we mean that the oil field, the country, the world, whatever universe you're looking at, has reached its maximum production for producing oil. And this happens in each individual oil field. And that is how M. King Hubbert was able to so accurately makes his predictions because he noticed in an individual oil field that the production of oil increased and increased until you reached a high point at about which half the oil was pumped, and the last half logically is going to be harder to get than the first half, and so it's going to be less and less oil as you went down the other side. He predicted that the United States would peak in 1970. We did right on schedule. 
   And then in 1979, he predicted that the world would be peaking about now. And here we have the data from the two entities, the IEA and the EIA, that track the use, production and consumption of oil. And as you can see, they are in reasonable agreement. And for roughly the past 3 years, oil production in the world has been flat. By the way, if they were drawing this chart today, it would be a much taller one. They would have to change the scale for the price of oil because they had it here about $95 a barrel. Now it's way off the top of the chart, off 130 something dollars a barrel. But these two curves are still plateaued. 
   The next chart is a quote from what I think will shortly be recognized as perhaps the most insightful speech given in the last century. That speech was just found a few years ago and was put on the Web. And you can get it by doing a Google search for Hyman Rickover, the Father of our Nuclear Submarine and energy speech, or you can go to our Website, and there is a link there. 
   It really was a very prophetic speech. Remember, that was 51 years ago, the 14th day of this past May, to a group of physicians in St. Paul, Minnesota. And these are some of the things he said in that speech. And I hope you will pull it up and read the whole speech because it's really very insightful and very prophetic. There is nothing man can do to rebuild exhausted fossil fuel reserves. They were created by solar energy 500 million years ago, he says, and took eons to grow to their present volume. The world as a whole and our country included has appeared to behave as if these fossil fuels were inexhaustible. The plea now to reduce prices is simply to drill more. 
   What we will see shortly is that, as everyone will know, if you stop and think about it, that oil is finite. It is not infinite. There is a limited supply. The only thing that can be argued is how limited is that supply? He says, in the face of the basic fact that fossil fuels are finite, now our behavior has been a denial of this reality. In the face of the basic fact that fossil fuel reserves are finite, the exact length of time these reserves will last is important in only one regard: The longer they last, the more time do we have to invent ways of living off renewable or substitute energy sources and to adjust our economy to the vast changes which we can expect from such a shift. 
   Have you noticed anybody anywhere doing what he 
   suggested here? I really love this next paragraph because I think it really describes us, I'm sorry to say. Fossil fuels resemble capital in the bank. A prudent and responsible parent will use his capital sparingly in order to pass on to his children as much as possible of his inheritance. A selfish and irresponsible parent will squander it in riotous living and care not one whit how his offspring will fare. I have 10 children, 16 grandchildren and 2 great grandchildren. When I am asked to vote to drill in the Arctic National Refuge and our public lands and offshore, I remind them of the fact that I have these children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. And I ask them, wouldn't it be nice if I left a little oil for my kids, my grandkids and my great grandkids? When they appeal to me to vote to drill in these places, I ask them, if you can pump ANWR tomorrow, what would you do the day after tomorrow? And there will be a day after tomorrow. 
   The next chart is another quote from Hyman Rickover. I suggest that this is a good time to think soberly. This is 51 years ago. I think this is a good time to think soberly about our responsibilities to our descendants, those who will ring out the Fossil Fuel Age. He may be the first person that I can find who recognizes that there would be a Fossil Fuel Age. In the 8,000 years of recorded history, Hyman Rickover noticed that the Age of Oil would be but a blip in the history of man. Wow. What a time it has been. We might give a break to these youngsters by cutting fuel and metal consumption so as to provide a safe margin for the necessary adjustments which eventually must be made in a world without fossil fuels. 
   And one day, friends, there will be a world without fossil fuels. Now that is not tomorrow. And we are not running out of oil. Half of all the oil that will ever be recovered is yet to be recovered. What we're running out of is our ability to pump this oil as fast as we would like to use it. We now are, I believe, at the top of Hubbert's peak. We will have a lot of oil pumped in the future, as much as all the oil we have pumped in the past. But it will be ever harder and harder to get. Less and less of it will flow. And it will come at higher and higher costs. 
   The next chart really helps us to put this in a perspective. I haven't gone back the 8,000 years that Hyman Rickover mentioned. I have gone back only 400 years in history because it wouldn't matter because if I went back the rest of the 8,000 years, the use of energy would not be as wide as the baseline here, and so it would still look like this chart. 
   This shows the beginning of the Industrial Revolution. It shows that it started with wood, then, coal, and then gas and oil. And wow, did it take off with gas and oil. Now we're going to see this curve in several other charts. In most of those charts we will have expanded the abscissa, so that this curve will look a little different. 
   What we have here is the incredible increase in the rate of the use of oil up through the Carter years. Every decade up through the Carter years we used as much oil as we had used in all of previous history. Now that is an incredible statistic. What that means is that when you use half of the oil, that only 10 years remain. Now that is not going to be 10 years of increasing rate and then you're going to be fall off a cliff, because that is not the way we can pump the oil. 
   The next chart introduces us to another reality that we really need to be cognizant of. Not only is there a limited amount of oil in the world, but how it's distributed in the world is important. The world according to oil. This is what your planet would look like if the size of the Nation was relative to how much oil it had in reserves. Saudi Arabia dominates the landscape. It should. It has about 22 percent, a bit more than one-fifth of all the reserves in the world. Iraq, Kuwait, Iran, second, third and fourth, have huge amounts of oil. Russia and Venezuela have large amounts of oil. Russia now I think is the number one exporter in the world. They don't have the most oil in the world. But they are very aggressively pumping it. We're very aggressively pumping oil by the  way. Here we are, the United States, with 2 percent of the oil in the world, and we are producing 8 percent of the oil in the world. 
   It is an interesting depiction here. It shows some really interesting things. The first and third largest suppliers of oil to our country are Canada and Mexico. Mexico just slipped to number 3. They used to be number 2. Now that has been taken up by Saudi Arabia. But notice that Canada and Mexico together have about as much oil as we. Canada doesn't have much oil. They can export oil because Canada doesn't have very many people. And Mexico's people are too poor to use it. So they can export oil. I read one account that said within 8 years, Mexico, our third largest supplier, will be an importer of oil. Notice that Venezuela dwarfs everything else in our hemisphere.     
   Another really interesting thing here is the size of China and India. Here they are, China and India, and together, they don't have as much oil as the United States, with more than 2.3 billion people and with rapidly growing economies. 
   The next chart looks at this distribution of oil, where it is in the world another way, and you could have seen most of this from that chart. Here we look at the 10 largest reserves of oil in the world. Who owns them? Ninety-eight percent of those big 10 are owned by countries, not companies. Luke Oil, in Russia, is kind of independent, and they have only 2 percent. 
   Now, who produces the oil? 
   In this country, we focus on the big 4, and some people think they're gouging us. We have legislation now to look at whether they're gouging us or not. But 78 percent of all of the oil in the world is produced by those in the top 10--this is 78 percent of the top 10--by the 98 percent of the top 10 who have the oil. The big oil companies produce only 22 percent of the oil, and the amount of oil that they own isn't even large enough to show up in the top 10. Notice they don't even show here. 
   The next chart is another way of looking at these realities. These numbers, by the way, inspired 30 of our leading citizens--Boyden Gray and Jim Woolsey and McFarland and 27 others, who are some retired four-star admirals and generals--to write a letter to the President, saying, ``Mr. President, the fact that we have only 2 percent of the world's oil reserves and use 25 percent of the world's oil and import two-thirds of what we use is an entirely unacceptable national security risk. You really have to do something about that.'' 
   Subsequent to that, in a State of the Union message, the President noted very correctly that we're hooked on oil. That's a good analogy. We are as hooked on oil as the drug addict is hooked on his drug. The President made that very clear. We are less than 5 percent of the world's population--1 person in 22--and we use 25 percent of the world's oil. 
   As I mentioned before, we pump 8 percent of the world's oil, which means we're pumping our oil fields four times faster than the average in the world. 
   The next chart is one where, if you only had one chart to look at, this chart has more information on it than any other chart that I have seen relative to oil and relative to where we are and where we'll probably be. 
   Here is the curve that you saw before. It was a very steep curve, do you remember? I said that you would see it in subsequent charts, and here it is again. We have really spread it out here. Before, it went 400 years. Now it goes 100 years, 1930 to 2030. You will see here the recession that occurred in the 1970s. 
   There is an old saying: It is an ill wind that blows no good. 
   The good thing that came out of those oil price spike hikes in the 1970s was the reality that, gee, we could use this oil more efficiently. Boy, we've really done that. There was a recession that resulted in an actual drop in the demand for oil. Then we came out of that recession, and we were focused on efficiency. Your air conditioner is probably three times as efficient now as it was then, and so is your freezer. 
   So now we are growing our economies at the same rate we were growing them before, actually faster, because China and India were not really involved then in using huge amounts of energy. Now the growth is much slower. So let's be thankful for those oil price spike hikes in the 1970s, because it alerted us that we really could do better, and we really are doing better. 
   These bars here show when we found the oil, and we found most of it a long time ago. There were some huge finds back in the 1950s and some really, really big finds in the 1960s to 1970s. Notice that, from about this point on down, from 1980 particularly on down, it's down, down, down, down. This is with ever better techniques for discovering oil--3-D seismic and computer modeling. On the average, every year, we have found less oil than we've found the year before. 
   Now what will the future look like? 
   It's obvious on this chart that, ever since about 1980, we have not found as much oil as we're using, so now we've been dipping into the reserves. This area here, which is volume of oil, has been made up with using some of the reserves we found back here. So what will the future look like? There are two things that will determine what the future looks like: 
   One is how much oil we find and the rate at which we use the reserves we already have. 
   Now, you can make a judgment as to how much oil we will find in the future. I, personally, wouldn't have drawn this line. It won't be smooth like that; it will be up and down, but I wouldn't have drawn that line quite that high. I think it comes in a little lower if you're looking at that, but let's assume that that's what it is. 
   The difference between what you find and what you're using is going to have to be made up by dipping into the reserves back here. So you make your own judgment as to what the future would look like, and that will depend upon the rate at which we use these reserves and the amount of new reserves that we find. 
   The next chart shows a projection of discoveries, which is totally inconsistent with the chart we just saw. This is a projection of discoveries by the Energy Information Agency. This is a very interesting and kind of bizarre thing that has happened. The USGS does some computer modeling, looking at: Gee, where will we be in the future? How much oil will we find? They do some computer modeling, and they put a lot of inputs, different ones, into the computer, and then they get results out. 
   They took the mean frequency of that, and they compiled some data which said that the mean of what we're going to find--the F, they said--looks like this number. Well, somehow, when that got to the Energy Information Administration, that F became a P for probability. They make use of that, which, from a statistician's perspective, is just bizarre. 
   They make the statement that the 50 percent probability is the mean--of course it is not--and that the 50 percent probability is more probable than the 95 percent probability. This is fairly old. This is several years old now, as you can see, but they made a prediction way back here that the 50 percent probability green line is the amount of oil we were going to find in the future. We've been finding it at this rate. This is the discovery rate. They said, somehow, it's going to turn around, and it's going to go back up following that green line. 
   The 95 percent probability is the yellow line there. Well, obviously, 95 percent probable is more probable than 50 percent probable, and it's no surprise that the actual data points have been following the 95 percent probability. 
   The next chart is from one of four reports that your government has paid for and has pretty much ignored. Two of these reports came out in 2005. This is a quote from the first of those done by SAIC, a very large, prestigious, international organization. This was paid for by our government. It's called the Hirsch Report, after Robert Hirsch, who was a principal investigator on the report. Another one came out a little later in 2005 from the Corps of Engineers, and it says essentially the same thing that this report says. Then in 2007, two additional reports came out--one from the Government Accountability Office and, later in the year, another from the National Petroleum Council. 
   All four of these say essentially the same thing in different words, that the  peaking of oil is a certainty; it is either present or imminent with potentially devastating consequences. Now, that's the message of all four of these reports. 
   This is a quote from the first of those reports: ``World oil peaking is going to happen. World production of conventional oil will reach a maximum and decline thereafter.'' 
   That happened in our country in 1970. It is inevitable. It will happen in the world. Oil is finite. The amount of oil in the world is not infinite. There will be a time when we reach the maximum production of oil, after which, it is going to be harder and harder to get, and less and less will be available at ever-increasing costs. That maximum is called the peak. A number of competent forecasters project peaking within a decade. Others are less certain when peaking will occur. There are a lot of things, a lot of complexities, that determine that: Geopolitical things, the economies of the world. A lot of things affected it. Technology affected it. 
   Oil peaking presents a unique challenge. Then they make a statement, a stunning statement. The world has never faced a problem like this. You cannot go back in history and find any precedent for this problem. The world has never faced a problem like this. Without massive mitigation more than a decade before the fact--and apparently from the data we just showed you, the fact is upon us. Without massive mitigation more than a decade before the fact, the problem will be pervasive and will not be temporary. 
   Previous energy transitions--wood to coal and coal to oil--were gradual and evolutionary. Oil peaking will be abrupt and revolutionary. The things that have been happening in the last few months are quite revolutionary. I was surprised at how quickly food shortages developed around the world. 
   The next chart is another quote from the first of these four reports that your government has paid for: ``The peaking of world oil production presents the world with an unprecedented risk management problem. As peaking has approached, liquid fuel prices and price volatility will increase dramatically.'' 
   Wow, that's exactly what has happened, isn't it? It will increase dramatically. 
   This, I believe, is the 46th time that I have come to the floor. I began, I think, on the eighth day of March in 2005. When I first came here, oil was 50-couple dollars a barrel. Now it's about $135 a barrel. Gasoline, I think, was less than $2 a gallon. Now it's over $4 a gallon. So it is true that these prices have increased dramatically. The economic, social and political costs will be unprecedented, they say. 
   The next chart--and I show this chart because it really depicts this very clearly. I have two charts to address this problem. I just want to make the point that drilling for oil is not the ultimate solution. This chart assumes that we are going to find as much more oil as all the reserves that now can be pumped. That's incredible. You will remember that chart of the oil that we found going down, down, down. What is going to turn that around? This chart assumes that we're going to find as much more oil as all of the oil that is yet to be recovered. This is that curve. I told you you'd see it again in several charts. Here it is again, the dip in the 1970s, and here we are a little after 2000. 
   This chart was made a few years ago. This red line here is the mean of 2 percent growth and 2 percent decline with what they say is the mean, the expected value, of 3 trillion barrels of oil. You will see data that varies a little bit, but it is the amount of oil that most experts believe will ever be pumped. Now, discovered oil that will ever be pumped is about 2 trillion barrels. This has it at 2.28 trillion barrels. This predicts we're going to find, roughly, 800,000 more barrels. Almost half of all of the oil that we have ever found they predict is going to be found in the future. Even if we do that, that pushes the peaking of oil out, they say, on this chart to only 2016. Wow, that's not very far out. 
   Now, they have another line here which says, if you extend this growth further and assure that you're going to have a very rapid decline, then you can push the point out to 2037. 
   The next chart looks at these same data. Here, they have, roughly, the 2 trillion again. I told you the numbers would vary a little bit. Here is the 2 trillion again. This is 1.92 trillion. We would have peaking about now if that had occurred. This is from CERA again. CERA believes that we will find as much oil as all the oil that is yet to be pumped, and they don't show me further on. I have no idea what that curve will do and how abruptly it will fall after that, but even with their predictions, they are pushing the peak out only--well, you can see it here--to about 2030, which was the peak on the other chart. 
   Unconventional oil. This may be a good time to spend just a moment talking about unconventional oil. We, actually, have some huge reserves of unconventional oil.     
   The most exploitable of these reserves is in Canada, it's the tar sands of Canada, and they are huge, 1.5 trillion barrels of oil. That's more oil potential there than yet all the oil yet to be recovered in all the fields of the world. And they are producing about 1 million barrels a day. 
   So why aren't we sanguine and the future going to be rosy? Because what they are doing there, they know they cannot continue to do it, it's not sustainable. They are using natural gas, which will run out, and then they may have to build a nuclear power plant. 
   They are using water, which is a limited water supply. I understand they are now using a shovel which lifts 100 tons. They dump it into a truck which hold 400 tons, and they hook that with natural gas, maybe using more energy than they get out of the oil, but, never mind, the natural gas is stranded. By that we mean that there is not many people to use it. 
   Natural gas is very hard to move from one place to another. It's stranded and so it's cheap. Economically they are producing this, I understand $18 to $25 a barrel and it's bringing $135 a barrel. That's a really good profit margin. 
   But the profit margin you really need to be looking at here is the energy profit margin. How much energy do you put in, and how much energy do you get out? 
   Well, soon, when they have exploited this above ground, my understanding is it ducks under an overlay and then they are going to have to decide how to develop it in situ. They don't know yet how to do that. 
   We have in our country huge potential reserves. It's not quite oil, but with some manipulation it can be made into oil. These are the so-called oil shales of our west. We have there at least probably 1.5 trillion barrels of oil again. But, so far, no one has found any economically feasible way to develop these potentially enormous reserves. 
   Now, we use, in the world, about 84, 85 or so million barrels of oil a day. In our country we use 21 million barrels of oil a day. Each barrel of that oil--and when I first saw this number, I couldn't believe it--each barrel of that oil has the energy equivalent of 12 people working all year. 
   I thought, wow, that can't be true, just a barrel of oil, 42 gallons. Then I thought how far that gallon of gasoline at $4 a gasoline, by the way, still about the same price as water in the grocery store, how far that gallon of gasoline took my Prius. It takes me 48 miles. 
   Now I can pull my Prius 48 miles, but that would take a long time with come-alongs and cables and guardrails and trees and so forth to pull it along that 28 miles. 
   What that means is that until very recently, when oil prices spiked up, I can remember when oil was $10, $12 a barrel. When oil was $12 a barrel you could buy the life-style improvement of one person working for you all year for $1. 
   At $12 a barrel, one barrel is the work equivalent of 25,000 man-hours of 12 people. No wonder Hyman Rickover in his speech said that the poorest of people live better than ancient kings. This has enabled us to establish an incredible quality of life. 
   When I look back at this, you know, I keep asking myself the question, why didn't somebody, when we found this incredible wealth under the ground, stop and ask, what can we do with this to provide the most good for the most people for the longest time? 
   That is not what we did. What we did was no more responsibility than the kids who found the cookie jar or the  hog who found the feed-room door open. We have just been pigging out. A lot of my colleagues would like to continue doing that. 
   What they want to do is drill. I have 10 kids, 16 grandkids, two great grandkids. I want to drill, but I want to use what we get from drilling to invest in alternatives. My wife has a great--and I see I am joined by a great friend, and I am going to yield to him in just a moment--my wife has a great observation on all of this. She uses that old country and western--it's too late now to do the right thing. 
   We have blown 28 years. I say that because by 1980 we knew really well of a certainty that M. King Hubbert was right about the United States peaking in 1970. By 1980 we knew that, no question about it. He predicted in 1979 that the world would be peaking about now. I keep asking myself the question, why haven't we done something about it? 
   I thank you, friend, for joining us. I am happy to yield to you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Thank you, sir. I am really honored you came to join me. 
   You mention doing things. The thing that you mentioned is right on our chart here. I was very pleased. I think I may be the only original cosponsor on your bill to drill in ANWR and use all of the revenues to invest in alternatives. 
   Because I have said for all the years now that I have voted ``no'' for drilling in ANWR, that because of my kids, my grandkids, and great grandkids and their future that I would vote to drill in ANWR when we used all the revenues we get from ANWR to invest in alternatives. 
   Your bill does that, and so I was proud to sign on. By the way, I will note that there will be some environmental impact in ANWR. There is always an environmental impact. When I go out the door and step on my grass there is an environmental impact. But I think that my walking on the grass is justified. 
   It's obviously a trade-off. If you have a dollar and you spend it for a Coca-Cola you can't spend it for a candy bar. So everything we do in life is a trade-off. I think that the environmental damages that will be done in ANWR will be minimal compared to the advantages of our country and our civilization resulting from the monies that we are going to spend on the developing alternatives. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Thank you, sir. I am honored you came to the floor to join me. 
   Here is a list of the things I have been personally involved in, the Senate 2821, Senators Cantwell and Ensign, passed it 88-8. It's a bill that extends renewable energy tax credits. 
   Our companion bill to that, H.R. 5981, simply picks up the Senate bill. If we pass that bill in the House, then it goes directly to the President. 
   This is a bill I was just talking about with my good friend, Don Young, renewable domestic resources, ANWR, I am happy to be I think the only original cosigner of that bill. I am honored that he gave me that opportunity. 
   Peak Oil Caucus and resolution, I started the Peak Oil Caucus with my good friend, Tom Udall. 
   H. Res. 12 is a resolution that says that the Congress recognizes that there is such a thing as peak oil. I mean, how can you not recognize that the sun comes up and the sun comes down. Of course, there is such a good thing as peak oil. 
   I proudly supported a new law not yet fully supported by our administration, ARPA-E. This is patterned after the enormously successful DARPA that has brought a lot of things to fruition. We wouldn't have an Internet if it weren't for DARPA. We wouldn't have pilotless airplanes if it weren't for DARPA. 
   I want an ARPA-E. We are going to have very limited resources, very limited time. What are we going to invest it in? There are some things that businesses with its short sight and the next quarterly report just can't invest money in. That's what DARPA has been doing for years with such enormous success, just investing in these things that are really risky but have enormous payoff. That's what DARPA has done very successfully. That's what I hope ARPA-E will do too. 
   I voted to increase CAFE standards. I was driving to work the other day and one lane in front of me was an SUV with one person in it. In the lane next to it was a Prius. By the way, I bought the first one in Congress and the first one in Maryland, now driving a second one. There were two people in the Prius, and I noted to myself, the people in that Prius are getting six times the miles per gallon, per person, as compared to the people in that SUV. 
   We have enormous opportunities for conservation, and there is only one thing that will reduce the price of oil tomorrow. Drilling will not do it, because no oil will flow for years after we start drilling. 
   As a matter of fact, it will make the problem a bit worse tomorrow, because it takes energy to drill, and that will simply compete for additional energy. Only one thing will reduce the price of oil tomorrow, and that's use less of it. There are only two ways we will get there. 
   One of those the market will provide, and that is if we wait until oil gets so  high that it destroys the world's economies, and then those economies will collapse and the demand for oil will collapse, demand destruction, they call it, and then the price will drop. That's a very painful way to get the price down. 
   The only other way to get I down, by reducing demand, is to simply voluntarily reduce demand. We have a lot of opportunities to do that. 
   Let me run through this chart. I have a self-powered farm. If a farm can't produce all its own energy and a little bit left over for somebody else, we are in trouble for the future, aren't we, as we run down this other side of this fossil fuel curve. 
   Tax credits for hybrids, I would like to expand that so that more people would be encouraged to buy them, to give more tax credits for those. 
   Then the DRIVE Act, the DRIVE Act would require that all of our cars, for about $100 extra--maybe less than that with our max production--would be flex-fuel cars and they could use any fuel. By the way, every car produced in Brazil today is a flex-fuel car. They look just like ours. They cost just a trifling more to do. Who knows what the fuel in the next 16 years will be. A fleet turns over every 16 years, roughly. So we ought to be prepared for that. We really do need flex fuel cars. 
   The next chart, and this one points out another reality of the world in which we live, and this is who owns the oil? Now, we have looked at that another way previously, but this looks at the countries that are buying oil. 
   You can see a dollar sign there in a few places, not very--I have to look to find them, by the way, but I really don't have to look to find the symbols for China. They are everywhere. They are everywhere. 
   They are Russia, they were going to buy Unocal in our country. They are heavily invested in south--not only are they buying oil, they are buying goodwill. Do you need a soccer field? Hospital, how about roads? So China is out there very aggressively buying oil all over the world.     
   The next chart, and I would like to put where we are in context and look at all of the power we are using. We have been looking just at transportation. That is where the real challenge comes in the future. 
   This looks at U.S. energy consumption by sector. Electric power, transportation, and we have been talking primarily about liquid fuels. So 2 or 3 percent of this is produced by diesel, but we are using gas. And gas is not thought of as a liquid fuel, but you will see the city buses running on gas, and so it is appropriate to look at that. 
   Here is transportation, industry, residential and commercial. 
   The next chart looks at the reality of the future. It is very obvious that oil is finite, that it will not be here forever. Hyman Rickover was the first that I know of who in a very dramatic way called our attention to that. 
   We will eventually transition. Geology will ensure it. We will transition from fossil fuels to renewables. We have some finite resources to help us do that. We have already talked about the tar sands and the oil shales. I have no idea how much we will get from those. I don't know how much money I might win in the lottery, but I don't plot my future on future winnings in the lottery. And I am going to win no money in the lottery because I don't play the lottery. 
   So we need to have a plan B. Coal. In a few minutes I will have a chart that looks at coal. We have a lot of coal compared to the rest of the world. Our fabled 250 years of coal is not really 250 years. The National Academy of Sciences recently looked at it. They say we haven't looked at coal since 1970, and we have been using a lot of coal since 1970. They said we now probably have 100 years of coal at current use rates. But be very careful when someone says ``current use rates.'' 
   We have great difficulty in understanding the exponential function. When Albert Einstein was asked after nuclear energy, what is going to be the next great force in the world? 
   He said the most powerful force in the world is the power of compound interest. Just 2 percent growth, so anemic that our stock market doesn't like it and it tends to shudder when you only have 2 percent growth, 2 percent growth doubles in 35 years. It is four times bigger in 70 years, eight times bigger in 105 years, and 16 times bigger in 140 years. That is just 2 percent growth. And so this 100 years at current use rates could easily shrink to 25-30 years with increased use rates. 
   Then we have nuclear. I am a fan of nuclear. It has been very safe. We produce roughly 20 percent of our electricity with it. And France produces 75-80 percent with it. We use a light water reactor using fissile uranium, and that will run out. Then we can go to breeder reactors and as the name implies, breed fuel, and we won't run out of that. But we do buy some problems with that of transporting weapons grade material for further use. 
   But those I think are solvable problems. The only one that gets us home free is nuclear fusion. That's harnessing the power of the hydrogen bomb. By the way, we have a great nuclear fusion plant, it's called the sun. That is how it produces its energy. 
   I happily vote for the $250 million a year that we spend on fusion, but I think the odds of commercializing that are relatively small. I would be delighted if we are able to do that, but I would not count on that. You have to have a plan B. 
   Now we look at the renewable sources. And by and by, all of our energy will come from sources like these and maybe a couple more that we might add to it. Solar and wind and true geothermal. A lot of people talk about geothermal where you are hooking your air conditioner to ground temperature. Gee, do that please because what you are trying to do in the summer when you air condition your house is heat the air outside when it is already 100 degrees outside. It is easier to warm up the ground which is 56 degrees; and in the wintertime, 56 degrees looks pretty warm compared to the 10 degrees it might be outside. 
   But the geothermal I am talking about is tying into the molten core of the earth. They do that in Iceland. I don't see a single chimney in Iceland. 
   Ocean energy, an incredible amount of potential energy in the oceans, but hard to harness. We are working at it. 
   Agricultural resources, soybean and biodiesel. Just a word about those. I am a big fan of agriculture. I come from a farming background. I hope that agriculture will play a meaningful role, but it will not be a huge role. 
   The National Academy of Sciences has said that if we used all of our corn for ethanol and discounted for fossil fuel input, it would displace 2.4 percent of our gasoline. They said if we used all of our soybeans for diesel and discounted for fossil fuel input, it would displace 2.9 percent of our diesel. These are trifling numbers. 
   They noted that as far as corn ethanol is concerned, using all of our corn, we use only a part and now we are driving up the price of corn, wheat and soybeans because we diverted land, and droughts drove up the price of rice and so now there is hunger around the world and we are partly to blame for that. They said that if you tuned up your car and put air in your tires, you could save as much gas as using all of our corn for ethanol. 
   Methanol that you might get from wood, biomass, and the huge interest now that I think is a bit overly optimistic is on cellulosic ethanol. I am an old dirt farmer. Let me just note something that I think is intuitive. I can't imagine that we would get a whole lot more energy from our wasteland that wasn't good enough to plant anything on than we could get from all of our corn and all of our soybeans which would produce, for corn, replace 2.4 percent of our gasoline, and for soybeans, 2.9 percent of our diesel. I can't imagine we are going to get a whole lot more than that from our wastelands that aren't good enough to grow anything on. If you want to mine those and rape them of their organic materials for the next couple of years, you might get a meaningful amount. But sustainably, at least to some measure, this year's weeds grow because last year's weeds died and are fertilizing them. Now we will get something from cellulosic ethanol. 
   There are two bubbles that have broken already. The first big bubble that was going to be our savior was hydrogen. Remember that one? I think people figured out that hydrogen is not an energy source; it is an energy carrier. You will always use more energy producing hydrogen than you get out of it.  
   Why hydrogen. Because if we have a fuel cell where we can burn it and use it at least twice as efficiently, and when you use hydrogen you get water and that is pretty clean. So it is a great candidate for a fuel cell. We are at least two decades away from a fuel cell. 
   The second bubble that broke is the corn ethanol bubble. I am predicting that the cellulosic ethanol bubble will break. We will get something from cellulosic ethanol, but it will not be the huge amounts people are predicting we might get. 
   Waste to energy, great idea. And there is a good plant here in Montgomery County, but what you are burning 
   there is largely a waste stream, the result of profligate use of fossil fuels. For the moment it is a good idea; but long term in an energy-deficient world, you are not going to waste so much. Remember, I grew up during the Depression: Waste not, want not. That is certainly not our motto today when you look at our landfills. 
   Gas hydrates. I want to mention that because there is more potential energy there than all the other energy sources I have talked about. These are little, frozen modules on the bottom of the ocean. There are huge potential amounts of energy there. But let me note that there are huge potential amounts of energy in the tides. The moon lifts the whole ocean two or three feet. When I carry two 5-gallon buckets of water, they are heavy. The problem with that energy and the tides and the problem with the energy in the gas hydrates is that it is very scattered and diffuse. Energy to be useful must be concentrated. And we will get something out of all of those, but it will not be enormous amounts. 
   This chart looks at a very interesting reality, and that is we are very much like the young couple that had their grandparents die and left them a big inheritance and now they have established a lavish lifestyle where 85 percent of all of the money they spend comes from their inheritance and only 15 percent from their salary. And they look at the inheritance, and it is going to run out before they retire, and so obviously they have to do something. They have to spend less or make more. That is precisely where we are because 85 percent of all of the energy that we use comes from fossil fuels, coal, petroleum and natural gas; only 15 percent from renewables, a bit more than half of that from nuclear. Here are the renewables we saw on the other chart. This is 7 percent. So solar was 1 percent of 7 percent; so 0.07 percent. Big deal. 
   And I am a big fan of solar and it is growing at 30 percent a year, but when you use 21 million barrels of oil a day, that is an incredible amount of energy. It is a huge challenge to find alternatives that will produce that amount of energy. 
   The next chart shows us the U.S. electricity generated by fuel source, and notice some of this we can use in cars. In fact, we can use a lot of the coal. Natural gas, buses run on natural gas. If you had electric cars, you could do it with nuclear. And the others are much smaller. Hydro is 6 percent a year or so depending on how much rain we have. 
   The next chart shows electricity generation by renewables, and this blows up the renewables part of it. The wood, wind, waste, geothermal and the solar. This is 1 percent up here. The total amount we use is 100 times higher. So you see solar down there, it is just trifling. I think it will be huge in the future. The most aggressive country in the world for solar is Germany, and they have poor sunlight compared to the United States. But they recognize that they have to do something to transition. 
   The next chart, and I want to spend just a moment on this chart because the reality is this should have led people to understand we weren't going to get all we could want from corn. This bottom part, this is the amount of energy that goes into producing corn. Almost half is natural gas that is used to make nitrogen fertilizer. Before we learned how to do that, the only nitrogen fertilizer came from barnyard manure and guano. Guano is the droppings of birds and bats, and if we wait another 10-20,000 years, we will have some more. But that is gone now. It was a big industry doing that. 
   The amount of energy that goes into producing ethanol from fossil fuels is incredible. This just looks at the energy that goes into producing. Indeed, there are some who believe that we use more energy producing ethanol than we get out of ethanol. Our Department of Energy believes it is probably 80 percent, and the National Academy of Sciences use that number, too. Probably 80 percent of the energy that you get out of ethanol was put in there with fossil fuels. 
   I would like to put up the chart that we began our discussion of things that could be done, and I would like to say in my closing moments that I feel very exhilarated by this. There is no exhilaration like the exhilaration of meeting and overcoming a big challenge. This is a huge challenge. The American people are the most creative, innovative people in the world. If they really understood what we needed to do, they would do what the people of my generation did, and I am 82 years old. I was born in 1926. I lived through World War II. Everybody had a victory garden. We had Daylight Savings Time so you could work another hour in the victory garden. We didn't do that because somebody told us we had to, we did it because we knew we needed to do that. 
   I think the American people, properly challenged, if they really understood the challenge, I think the American people would rally, and I think we could once again become a major exporting country, not just exporting ideas to other people who then do the manufacturing. I want to do the manufacturing here and be a manufacturing and exporting country. We are the most creative, innovative society in the world. 
   Mr. Speaker, what we need is a program that has the total commitment of World War II. Everybody in America needs to be involved. We need to have the technology focus of putting a man on the moon, and we need to have the urgency of the Manhattan Project. We are capable of that. The American people are waiting for that. 
   The solutions that are now suggested to us are only partial solutions. I am kind of glad with my 10 kids and 16 grandkids and 2 great-grandkids that we didn't drill every place that we might have drilled. Now there is a little oil for them, and they will be involved in this transition. 
   So I hope, Mr. Speaker, with more knowledge of where we are, that the American people will rally to the challenge and the United States will be what it has been in the past, a leader in technology, and a major manufacturing and exporting country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (BUDGET SCHOOL -- (House of Representatives - April 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. I thank the gentlewoman for yielding. 
   Mr. Speaker, I thought it might be instructive for the last couple of minutes of this hour to kind of put what we've been talking about in perspective. 
   When you say ``budget, ``you have to know which budget we're talking about because we have two budgets in Washington. We have the one we talk about publicly, and then we have the official budget that we have to deal with, and they're different. You will understand in a couple of moments why they're different. 
   When we generally talk about public, you'll hear what we call the unified budget. Now, the unified budget is all the money that comes into Washington and all the money that we spend. But about 10 percent of the money that comes into Washington shouldn't be Washington's 
   money to spend because it's moneys that they've taken from you, like Social Security, Medicare, railroad retirement, and about 50 others, presumably to be put in trust for you. But they do not put those moneys in trust for you. What they do with them in Washington is immediately convert them to a nonnegotiable U.S. security and spend them. 
   When we talk about debt, there's the national debt and the public debt, and I will bet you, Mr. Speaker, that not one person in fifty out there knows the difference between the national debt and the public debt. 
   Our time's going to run out in just a couple of minutes, and I would like to come back to the floor to talk again. But there never was a moment in time during those years during the Clinton presidency when we said we were paying down the debt that, in fact, the national debt went down. Because what we were doing with the lockbox money, which was surplus money from Social Security and Medicare, we were taking that money and paying down the public debt. The public debt did go down, but for every dollar the public debt went down, the trust fund debt went up another dollar. So there was no change in the total debt, or the national debt. But there were some trust fund moneys that were not lockbox moneys. In fact, only two of them were lockbox, Social Security and Medicare; so we happily took that additional money and spent that, and so the national debt did go up. As a matter of fact, there was not a moment in time during those years when we said we had a budget surplus when, in fact, the national debt went down. 
   There's a lot of duplicity in Washington. It probably shouldn't surprise you to learn that you shouldn't believe everything that comes out of Washington. I have the numbers here for that debt, and a half hour ago when I came to the floor, the public debt was over $5.3 trillion. They call this the intergovernmental holdings debt, which was just a little over $4 trillion. I have $4 trillion here, $5 trillion here, and the total national debt was $9.446 trillion. 
   I would very much appreciate coming back to the floor at another time to expand on this because I think it's very instructive for people to know, as your budget school says up there, who have the right to know how Washington spends your money. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, our government has paid for four studies looking at the world energy situation, particularly at oil. Two of those studies were reported in 2005, and two of them were reported in 2007. The two in 2005 were the SAIC report known as the ``Hirsch Report,'' and then later in the year there was a report by the Army Corps of Engineers,  and then in 2007 there were two reports, one of them by the Government Accountability Office and the second one by the National Petroleum Council. 
   They all said essentially the same thing in different words. I have here some quotes from the first one of these, and the largest one. Remember, this is now in 2005, and this is from the Hirsch Report. ``Peaking of World Oil Production: Impacts, Mitigation, & Risk Management'' was the title of their work. 
   World oil peaking is going to happen. By peaking, we mean that time at which the world reaches its maximum capacity for producing oil. After that time, regardless of the demand for oil and regardless of the desire to produce more oil, the world will not have the ability to ramp up in oil production to produce more oil. 
   World production of conventional oil will reach a maximum and decline thereafter. That maximum is called the peak. A number of confident forecasters project peaking within a decade. Others contend it will occur later. Prediction of the peaking is extremely difficult because of geological complexities, measurement problems, pricing variations, demand elasticity and political influences. Peaking will happen, but the timing is uncertain. Oil peaking presents a unique challenge. 
   And then they make this statement: the world has never faced a problem like this. There is no precedent in history that we can use to judge what the impact of this peaking will be. Without massive mitigation more than a decade before the fact, the problem will be pervasive and will not be temporary. Previous energy transitions, wood to coal and coal to oil, were gradual and evolutionary. Oil peaking will be abrupt and revolutionary. 
   The second chart has some additional quotes from this same report. The peaking of world oil production presents the U.S. and the world with an unprecedented risk-management problem. As peaking is approached, liquid fuel prices and price volatility will increase dramatically. A couple of weeks ago, oil was $100 a barrel. And without timely mitigation, and there has been essentially none, without timely mitigation, the economic, social, and political costs will be unprecedented, unprecedented, meaning nothing in the past can we use as a guide to what the consequences will be. 
   Viable mitigation options exist on both the supply and demand sides. But to have substantial impact, they must be initiated more than a decade in advance of peaking. 
   Now, as we will see in a chart or two, it is very probable that peaking has already occurred. So, obviously, we can't prepare for it a decade ahead. Dealing with world oil production, peaking will be extremely complex, involve literally trillions of dollars and require many years of intense effort. This is from the SAIC, a very prestigious organization, a report paid for by our government.     
   The next chart is a graph of oil production in the United States. To see the impact of this we have to go back more than half a century to 1956, the 8th day of March, in San Antonio, Texas, when M. King Hubbert gave a speech to a group of oil engineers and executives which I think will shortly be recognized as the most important speech given in the last century. 
   What M. King Hubbert told that group was that in just 14 years from 1956, that is, 1970, the United States would reach its maximum oil production, and after that, no matter what it did, the United States would not be able to increase its oil production. 
   At that time, the United States, that means in 1956, the United States was king of oil, I believe producing more oil, using more oil and shipping more oil than any other country in the world. Nobody believed M. King Hubbert. He was derided. But when in 1970, right on schedule, we peaked in oil production, he became a legend in his own day. He died just a few years ago. 
   What he predicted was oil production in the Lower 48, that is, Texas and the rest of the United States, that is the gray and blue part of the graph here, we found a lot of oil in Alaska and we are able to get some natural gas liquids, and when you add those two together, you see there was a little blip in the slide down the other side of Hubbert's Peak. But in spite of feverishly drilling, we have drilled more oil wells in our country than all the rest of the world put together. We have about four times as many oil wells in the Gulf of Mexico, about 4,000, about four times as many in the Gulf of Mexico as in all of Saudi Arabia, for instance. In spite of finding oil in Alaska and in spite of finding oil in the Gulf of Mexico, the yellow wedge there, we are now producing about half the oil we did in 1970. 
   The next chart shows a quote, a very recent quote from the Shell Oil Company, January 22. ``By the end of 2100, the world's energy system will be radically different from today's.'' 
   It will indeed. 
   ``The world's current predicament limits our maneuvering room. We are experiencing a step change in the growth rate of energy demand.'' China and India and the Third World are coming on line to industrialize. 
   Shell estimates that after 2015, that is just around the corner, ``after 2015, supplies of easy-to-access oil and gas will no longer keep up with demand.'' A very significant statement. ``As a result, society has no choice but to add other sources of energy.'' 
   The next chart is also some very recent data. Now, remember, M. King Hubbert made his prediction in 1956. Remember that it was in 2005 that SAIC, the Hirsch Report, made their predictions. 
   There are two agencies in the country that do a very good job of tracking the production and consumption of oil, and, of course, since we use all we produce, those lines are the same. We are not storing it up in large quantities anywhere, significant quantities. One of these two agencies is the International Energy Agency, the IEA. You see them referenced in the news relative to Iran. They are the international group that is watching the development of nuclear energy activity in Iran. 
   Then there is our own EIA, Energy Information Agency, an arm of our Department of Energy. They do a very good job of tracking the use of oil. Here are their curves. The red curve is the IEA and the green curve is the EIA. You notice they are very similar. They should be, because they are looking at the same data. Notice for about the last 30 months, both of those have oil production essentially plateauing. 
   The same gentleman that predicted that the United States would reach its maximum oil production in 1970, that was M. King Hubbert, predicted that the world would be reaching its maximum production about now. It would appear, it would appear from Shell's statement and would appear from the graph here from these two organizations that are tracking the production and consumption of oil, that indeed it looks like we are plateauing, which would mean that we very probably have reached a peak. 
   Notice what has happened with price. There is a lot of volatility, which was predicted by the Hirsch Report. And notice what has happened in the last few months; up, up, up. It at one time touched $100 a barrel. It now is down just under $90 a barrel. When I first came to the floor about 2 1/2 years ago to talk about oil, it was about $40 a barrel. Look what has happened to the price of oil since then. 
   There are three groups that have common cause in a rational solution to this problem and two other problems. The first of these three groups are those that are concerned about global warming and climate change. What they would do to ameliorate this problem is to shift from the use of fossil fuels, which are releasing CO  
   2 which was sequestered a very long time ago, now present in oil and gas and coal, they would replace that with renewable sources where you are simply recycling the CO 
   2. The trees grow and they use CO 
   2 to grow, and then when they are mature, you cut them and you burn them and oxygen is consumed in burning them and the CO 
   2 is released, so there is no net CO 
   2 increase when you do that. 
   A second group that has common cause in wanting to replace our fossil fuels with renewables are those who are concerned about our national security. The President noted that we were far too dependant on foreign oil. We have only 2 percent of the known reserves of oil in the world. We use about 25 percent of the world's oil. We import almost two-thirds of what we use. The  obvious solution to that problem is to get our energy from somewhere else so that we don't have to import this oil, and the rational place to get that is from renewables. 
   Then there is the group of people that I am kind of representing tonight when I talk about this aspect of energy, and those are the people who believe that there is a finite amount of oil in the world and that at some point in time the world will reach that maximum capacity to produce oil. That happened in the United States, as that chart showed, in 1970. After that, no matter what we do, reasonably, no matter what we do, the production of oil will fall steadily off. 
   Now, we aren't running out of oil. We are not falling off a cliff. What we are running out of is our ability to produce oil as fast as we would like to use it. That point is called peak oil. What the peak oil concerned people would like to do is to move to some alternative which is a substitute for oil. 
   So we have these three groups with very different agendas, very different premises, but all three of them have exactly the same solution to their problem; climate change and global warming. What you want to do is stop releasing this sequestered CO  
   2 in the fossil fuels and use renewables. 
   What you want to do if you are concerned about our national security and the fact we are so dependent on foreign oil is to find a substitute for oil so we don't have to buy that foreign oil. 
   If you are concerned about peak oil, that it just isn't going to be there in the quantities you would like to use it in the future, obviously you have got to find another source of energy. So these three groups have common cause. 
   I am joined this evening by one of my colleagues that is a real expert in the first one of these I mentioned, Wayne Gilchrest, Wayne, thank you very much for joining us. Wayne is perhaps the best authority in 
   the Congress on climate change or global warming, and different people talk about this problem in different ways. 
   Wayne, thanks for joining us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Thank you very much for joining us in this discussion of energy. You know, Congressman Gilchrest, some might say, gee, won't the global warming problem be solved if, in fact, we were at peak oil? It would be nice if that would solve the problem, but it won't. 
   You see, we have now used about 1 trillion barrels of oil. That's about half of the oil that we ultimately will use. There is about another 1 trillion barrels of oil to use. So as we go through this last half of the age of oil, we will release as much CO  
   2 from burning that oil and gas and coal as we have released now in the first half of the age of oil. 
   So the CO  
   2 contributed during this industrial age and burning the fossil fuels will double. It will be twice as big at the end of this time. 
   I have here an interesting graph, a little cartoon here. There is a huge SUV there and it's labeled ``demand,'' and there is a gas pump there and it's labeled ``supply,'' and it's little, and the motor is saying, Gee, just why is gas so expensive? Well, that's the reason, of course: There is a big demand and a little supply. When you have that, that makes prices go up. 
   The next chart is a quote from the second of these studies, which your government paid for and has pretty much been ignoring. This is the Corps of Engineers: ``Oil is the most important form of energy in the world today.'' The President recognized that in his State of the Union a year or so ago. 
   ``Historically, no other energy source equals oil's intrinsic quality of extractability, transportability, versatility, and cost. The qualities that enabled oil to take over from coal as a front-line energy source for the industrialized world in the middle of the 20th century are just as relevant today as they were then.'' 
   Oil is, indeed, an incredible energy source. One barrel of oil, and when I first heard this statistic, I said, gee, that can't be true, one barrel of oil has the equivalent of 25,000 man-hours of labor, that's 12 people working all year. I thought, gee, can that be true, just 1 barrel of oil, 42 gallons of oil. 
   Then I thought how far that gallon of gasoline, still at $3, by the way, cheaper than water in the grocery store, how far that gallon of gasoline carries my Prius. I drive a Prius and we get just a little under 50 miles per gallon with it. I could pull my Prius 50 miles, but how long would it take me to pull my Prius 50 miles? 
   When I looked at that and I figured, gee, maybe it's true that a barrel of oil has the energy equivalent of 12 men working all year. 
   The incredibly high quality of life that almost all the world enjoys today is the result of our ability to tap into the stored energy in fossil fuels. 
   The next chart is a quote from Admiral Hyman Rickover. He gave a speech, it will be 51 years ago the 
   14th day of this May, to a group of physicians in St. Paul, Minnesota. These are some excerpts from his speech. He really was prophetic. He is the father, of course, of our nuclear submarine. 
   ``There is nothing man can do to rebuild exhausted fossil fuel reserves. They were created by solar energy'' he says, 500 million years ago ``and took aeons to grow to their present volume. In the face of the basic fact that fossil fuel reserves are finite,'' and they are, ``the exact length these reserves will last is important in one respect. The longer they last, the more time we have to invent ways to live off renewable or substitute energy resource and to adjust our economy to the vast changes which we can expect from such a shift.'' 
   Fifty-one years ago we were only then about 100 years into the age of oil. He had no idea how long the age of oil will last. Now we know pretty much how long the age of oil will last. 
   He said that how long it lasted was important in only one respect, that the longer it lasted, the more time did we have to plan for the transition to renewables, which ultimately we will do. Geology will ensure that eventually we transition to renewable fuels. 
   ``Fossil fuels resemble capital in the bank. A prudent and responsible parent will use his capital sparingly in order to pass on to his children as much as possible of his inheritance.'' 
   I thought often of that very sage counsel. You know, it doesn't even come close to our attitude towards oil. With no more responsibility than the kids who found the cookie jar or the hog who found the feed room door open, we have just been pigging out. We have been pumping oil as fast as we could all over the world eager to find new places from which to pump oil. 
   We just found some more oil in the Gulf of Mexico under 7,000 feet of water, 30,000 feet of rock. We aren't starting to exploit that yet because oil at $100 a barrel or $88 a barrel apparently is not high enough. 
   ``A selfish and irresponsible parent will squander it in riotous living and care not one whit how his offspring will fare.'' 
   Boy, that is quite precisely what we have done with this incredible wealth under the ground. When we found that wealth 150 years ago, we should have stopped and said, gee, what can we do with this to do the most good for the most people for the longest time? Rather than doing that, what we did was to act as if oil were forever, that there would never be an end of oil, just keep drilling, just keep pumping, and it will always be there. 
   The next chart shows the industrial age and the transition from wood, the brown line here to coal, and then to gas and oil. Boy, look what happened. Look at the slope of that line. 
   Now, if I put world population on this, it would be hardly indistinguishable from that energy curve, because the world's population just shot up. It was less than 1 billion people for a very long time. Now it's approaching 7 billion people, and that increase in population follows exactly this dramatic increase in the release of energy from the use of gas and oil. 
   A couple of interesting things about this chart, notice where that line would be if it kept on going up, way off the top of the chart by this time. That dip there, as you notice from the abscissa, occurred in the 1970s, was the Arab oil spike price spots and the worldwide recession that resulted from that. There was demand destruction. We didn't need as much oil because we were in a recession, a depression in many places.  
   The production went down and, boy, did the price go down. It dropped, do you remember, about $10 a barrel. All of those activities, which were looking at producing substitutes, they just all died because you can't compete with oil at $10 a barrel. 
   We now are very much more efficient than we were at this time. The slope of this curve, by the way, is really interesting. That's during the Carter years. During the Carter years, every decade we used as much oil as had been used in all of previous history. That's a stunning statistic. 
   What that means is that when you have used half of your oil, how much will remain, 10 years. We are now very much more efficient than we were then. We are able to live better than we were then, using less energy because your air conditioner is probably three times as efficient; so is your refrigerator. Your car is more efficient. If they would keep them small, they would get better mileage even. 
   The next chart is really an interesting one, and looking at this chart causes you to do a lot of reflection. This is ``The World According to Oil,'' and it depicts two things. One is who has the oil. And the other one is who uses the oil. The yellow and the green there are the people who are using the oil, and the blues and the grays are the people who have the oil.     
   You notice this is what the world's map would look like if the size of the country was relative to the amount of oil it had in reserve. Saudi Arabia is huge. It represents about 22 percent, almost a fourth of all of the oil reserves in all of the world. 
   Little Kuwait here, a tiny country, Saddam Hussein thought it looked like an errant province of Iraq and he went to reclaim it a decade or so ago, but little Kuwait has as much oil as Iraq. There is Iran. United Arab Emirates, you can hardly see them on the map. Look at Venezuela. It dwarfs us. 
   Here we are with 2 percent of the reserves. We are yellow because we use 25 percent of all of the world's oil. Notice that Venezuela is several times larger than we are. 
   Russia is pretty big, what three, four times bigger than we are, but they aren't using anywhere near as much oil as we are per capita so they are a big exporter and they have lots of money. 
   What is striking on this map is the size of China and India. Notice them here. Together they don't have as much oil as the United States, but together they have 2.3 billion people. With booming economies, China growing 11.4 percent, that was the statistic I saw for the last quarter. 
   Mentioning China, the next chart looks at what China is doing around the world. China is going around the world and buying oil wherever they can. And they are not just buying oil; they are buying goodwill. Would you like a soccer stadium, maybe a hospital, or roads is what you need in your country. This symbol here is for Unocal. They almost bought an oil company in our country a few years ago. 
   Why is China doing that? In today's world it doesn't make one bit of difference who owns the oil. From that previous chart when you saw those huge reserves of oil in north Africa and the Middle East, those people are using very little oil. He who comes with the dollars, let's hope it stays dollars and not your euros or we'll be in a world of hurt, he who comes with the dollars gets the oil. It doesn't make any difference in today's world who owns the oil, so why is China buying oil? 
   China has 900 million people in what they call rural areas. They may be in rural areas, but many of them have television and they are seeing the results of industrialization and they are demanding for themselves the increased quality of life that comes from the industrialization that they see in other countries in the world. So China has a problem in providing adequate industrialization to meet the emotional needs of these people so, and this is a judgment call on my part, so they don't become a problem and revolt. 
   I think the day may come when China may tell the rest of the world, Gee, guy, we're sorry, this is our oil and we have 2.3 billion people and we can't share it with you. To make that a reality, they will need a big navy. They will need a big navy to hold open the sea lanes and get that oil to their country. They are growing a navy very rapidly. This is open source literature. You can do a Google search for ``China'' and ``navy'' and you can see how aggressively they are growing their navy. 
   What China is doing here resulted in a statement in 2006 by Condoleezza Rice which is in our next chart here. ``We do have to do something about the energy problem. I can tell you that nothing has taken me aback more as Secretary of State than the way that the politics of energy is, I will use the word warping diplomacy around the world. We have simply got to do something about the warping now of the diplomatic effort by the all-out rush for energy supply.'' 
   The next chart presents some numbers that I went through a bit ago. These numbers, by the way, prompted about 3 years ago now, 30 of our prominent Americans, Boyden Gray, and McFarland and Jim Woolsey and 27 others, among them retired four star admirals and generals, they wrote a letter to the President saying: Mr. President, the fact that we have only 2 percent of the world's oil reserve and we use 25 percent and we import almost two-thirds of what we use is a totally unacceptable national security risk. We need to do something about it. You may remember the President mentioned this in one of his State of the Union speeches. Indeed we do have to do something about that. 
   We represent a bit less than 5 percent of the world's population. We are one person in 22 in the world, and we use a fourth of the world's oil. That statistic is not lost on the rest of the world, by the way. They are noting that. 
   With only 2 percent of the world's oil reserves, we are pumping 8 percent of the world's oil. What does that mean? Very simply, it means we are pumping our oil four times faster than the rest of the world, which means that our supplies are going to run down faster than the rest of the world. 
   We have 630,000 producing oil wells in our country. That is more than all of the rest of the world put together, so we are really good at pumping oil. 
   The next chart is really a very important chart. If you were going to talk about energy, oil, and the world's future, and you had only one chart, this would be the one that you would use. This comes from the oil chart. You can do a Google search for ``oil charts'' and you can find this and a lot more information. 
   Peak oil, the growing gap. The bars here represent when we discovered oil. Boy, it started way back in World War II, back in the 1940s. Then we discovered a whole lot in the 1950s, a whole bunch, and a lot of oil in the seventies. Oil in the eighties, and look at what has happened. Down, down, down, down. And that is in spite of ever-better techniques for discovering oil, computer modeling and 3D seismic, and it is in spite of an ever-greater effort in going out and drilling new wells. 
   The solid black line here represents the amount of oil which we are producing and using. We use everything we produce, so it is the same line. Notice again up to the 1970s what has happened. If that line kept going up at that rate, we would be off the top of the chart here. 
   But the Arab price oil spikes, at this point produced a worldwide recession that reduced the demand for oil, and then we became very much more efficient. Notice the low slope of this line compared to this one. Maybe that was a wake-up call that we needed, because if we hadn't had that, we would be in even more trouble today because we wouldn't have invested in those efficiencies. 
   But notice that since about 1980, we have been using more oil than we produce by this amount. So we have been dipping in reserves we had. 
   What will the future look like? One thing is certain: You cannot pump oil you have not found. So you can make your own judgment as to how much more oil we will find. Most of the world's experts believe we have probably found 95 percent of all of the conventionally recovered oil that we will ever find. 
   The light shaded area here represents the future, and they are showing peaking at about 2010 and downhill after that. 
   This area tails out until it comes down to zero, which will be another 150 years from now, because that is about how long we have been in the age of oil.  
   The difference between the amount you discover and the amount you are using has to be filled in by the reserves you have here. Now, you can make that future look a little different by enhanced oil recovery and going out and pumping live steam and pushing CO  
   2 down there to push the oil out, but if you do that, you will simply move this peak out a little, and then you will kind of fall off the cliff because, again, you can't pump what you haven't found. 
   The next chart is an interesting one. We show again here Hubbert's peak and the production of oil in our country. The yellow symbols here are what M. King Hubbert predicted for the lower 48. The green is what actually happened. This is a really interesting chart. It was produced by CERA, Cambridge Energy Research Associates. They produced this chart in an effort to convince you that you shouldn't have any confidence in M. King Hubbert's predictions because he really got it wrong. Maybe to a statistician they might reach a conclusion that he got it wrong, but I think to the average layman this green curve and those yellow triangles are not all that different. He seemed to get it pretty right to me. 
   The red here is the additional oil that we found in the Gulf of Mexico and in Alaska. M. King Hubbert's prediction was just for the lower 48. And by the way, we are pumping 25 percent of our oil through that four-foot pipeline. I have been up to Deadhorse where it begins. Even with that, we had just a blip on the slide down the other side of Hubbert's peak. 
   The next chart is interesting. It is another one from the Cambridge Energy Research Associates, CERA. There are only two major entities that I know of in the world today that will claim that peaking of oil is not either present or imminent. One of those is ExxonMobil. The other oil company, I started with a quote from Shell saying we are probably there, are on board with the peak oil concept, and CERA, Cambridge Energy Research Associates. 
   I mentioned that we have discovered about 2 trillion barrels of oil. Here they have 1.9 trillion. That is pretty close to 2. If that is the amount of oil available, which is what we showed on the previous chart, if you add up all on the bars on the previous chart, they will come to about 2 trillion, and we have now pumped about half of that. We have the other half to pump. If that is all of the oil we have, they now show peaking here at about now, right? About 2010, roughly now they show peaking. 
   They are presuming that we are going to find another trillion barrels of oil, that we are going to find as much oil as all of the oil that we used in the 150 years since we started using oil. If you believe we are going to find that much more oil, then you push the peak out to about 2035. That's just the take after tomorrow really, isn't it? 
   They are also projecting that we may find some unconventional oil, like we will be able to exploit a lot of oil from the tar sands and the oil shales. There are incredible amounts of potential oil there. The problem is can we really get it out in any timely fashion. We use 21 million barrels of oil a day in our country. The world uses 84 million barrels of oil a day. Try to get your mind around that, 21 million barrels of oil a day, each one of them with the energy equivalent of 12 people working all year. Wow, no wonder we live such great, high-quality lives. 
   The next chart shows a schematic. By the way, you can make this peak look sharp by compressing the abscissa and expanding the ordinate. But this is 2 percent growth. And 2 percent growth is small. Our stock market doesn't like 2 percent. If it is only 2 percent, they think that the sky is going to fall and stocks drop. 
   But 2 percent growth doubles in 35 years. It is 4 times bigger in 70 years. It is 8 times bigger in 105 years. It is 16 times bigger in 140 years. 
   Albert Einstein said that the most powerful force in the universe was the power of compound interest when he was asked: Gee, Dr. Einstein, after the discovery of nuclear energy, what is the next big force in the universe? That was his answer: It is the power of compound interest. 
   I believe we are about here, just about at peaking. This is where we would like to be in 35 years, two times higher than we are now, and we have a huge gap to fill. Most people are looking at how can you fill that gap.     
   I don't think that there's even a prayer that we can come close to filling that gap. I think we'll be more than lucky if we can produce enough energy from alternative sources to fill in this area, if we simply have a plateau in production of oil. 
   The next chart is the one from our Energy Information Agency, and it's an interesting chart. The USGS has estimated the amount of reserves by doing a lot of computer modeling. And of course, as you know, in computer modeling, the quality of what you get out is dependent on the quality of information you put into your model. 
   And they take the mean of what they get from this modeling, and they say that that's the 50 percent average, ``F'' for frequency. Somehow that got translated to ``P'' when it went from the USGS report until it appears now in the Energy Information Agency report. And so now they're dealing with probabilities. And they make the bizarre statement that something which is 50 percent probable is more probable than something which is 95 percent probable. 
   And I'm going to spend just a moment on this. They have here, they did this projection back here, what, about 1995 or so. And they have four different curves there. One is the 95 percent probability; that's the yellow one. The green one is the mean, which they say is the most probable, 50 percent probability; and the blue is the 5 percent probability. 
   Well, these probabilities are kind of like the picture on the weather channel of where the hurricane is going. Tomorrow you know pretty precisely where it's going to be. A week from now you have some uncertainty, so they have a big funnel out there. 
   So if they are going to do this, there should be another green line down here and another blue line down here. You don't have the foggiest notion hardly what it's going to be if you have only a 5 percent probability. 
   But notice the actual data points, which are in red here. By the way, these are discoveries, and this is that big peak back, you know, in the 1950s, and this is the big peak up here. This is kind of rounding out those bar graphs that we had in the previous chart. Notice the actual data points have been following what you would expect them to follow, the 95 percent of probability. 
   The next chart is one from the Corps of Engineers study again, and they quote Jean Laherrare, who is a French expert in this area. And he says the USGS estimate implies a fivefold increase in discovery rate and reserve addition, for which no evidence is presented. Such an improvement in performance is, in fact, utterly implausible, given the great technological achievements over the industry over the past 20 years, the worldwide search and the deliberate effort to find the largest remaining prospects. Indeed, I think it is most implausible that that's going to happen. 
   And the next chart, again, this is from the ``Hirsch Report.'' And then even if that did happen, the real question is, so what? What if we found as much more oil as all the oil that yet remains to be pumped? And that's what they're assuming here. This is about 2 trillion barrels. They're assuming we're going to find another trillion barrels, and that's what this red curve is. And you see, it peaks in about 2016. So it pushes that peak out only about a decade. That's the power of compound growth. So even if we found as much more oil as all the oil that yet remains to be pumped in the world, according to this chart it would push it out only to 2016. 
   Now, you can push it out even further if you use enhanced oil recovery, but you can't pump what you don't have, so then you fall off a cliff. That's not what you want for your children and your grandchildren, I think. 
   The next chart shows a number of experts and when they have predicted it would peak, and you see most of them, some of them thought it would be from here way out to 2100. But most of them have it, it could start or would start fairly quickly. 
   I have one more chart, and then I've got to close very quickly because time is running out. This chart shows quality of life and how good you feel about  your station in life compared to how much energy you use. How good you feel about life, how much energy you use: the United States out here using more energy than anybody else; 24 countries use less energy than we and feel better about their quality of life than we. 
   Now, my wife tells me I shouldn't be talking about these things because don't I remember that in ancient Greece they killed the messenger that brought bad news. I tell her this is a good-news story. The sooner we start, the easier the trip will be. I'm really exhilarated by this. There's no exhilaration like the exhilaration of meeting and overcoming a big challenge. This is a huge challenge. We have the most innovative, creative society in the world. Properly informed and properly motivated, I think we're equal to the challenge. I see this as a very challenging fun future, where we really have something we can all pull together to accomplish. 
   I hope we'll be back here next week, and at that time I want to spend most of the time talking about what are the potential replacements for oil, what are the potentials, and which are the most promising, and what do we need to do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (FOSSIL FUELS TO RENEWABLES -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, in just a few days now will be the third anniversary of the time I came to this floor to talk about this subject. I believe this may be the 39th time that I have come to the floor, and what an auspicious time to come, because when I got up this morning and turned on the television, I could hardly believe it, oil was $105 a barrel. 
   There are three groups in this country that are interested in transitioning from fossil fuels to renewables. They have very different agendas, they have very different concerns, but they have common cause in wanting to transition from fossil fuels to renewables. One of these groups is the group that is concerned about the national security of our country. This first chart speaks to that. 
   There were 30 people about 3 years ago leading Americans: Boydan Gray, McFarland, Jim Woolsey, and 27 others, retired Four-star admirals and generals, who really understand the problems we face, who wrote a letter to the President saying, Mr. President, the fact that we have only 2 percent of the world's oil reserves and we use 25 percent of the world oil, and we import almost two-thirds of what we use is a totally unacceptable national security exposure. We really have to do something about that. 
   A couple of other statistics on this chart are interesting to note. With our 2 percent of the world oil reserves, we are pumping 8 percent of the world's oil. We are pumping our wells four times faster than the average of the rest of the world. What that means of course is if there is the end of oil, our wells will go dry before the others because we are pumping them faster. 
   The last statistic here is truly a bit less than 5 percent. We are one person out of 22 in the world, and we use one-fourth of the world's energy, and this fact is not lost on the rest of the world. They recognize this. 
   The next chart is a statement by our Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. She had in mind the statistics that you just saw, and she had some other things in mind that we will come to in a few moments. When she said we do have to do something about the energy problem, I can tell you that nothing has really taken me aback more as Secretary of State than the way the politics of energy is, I will use the word, warping diplomacy around the world. We have simply got to do something about the warping now of diplomatic effort by the all-out rush for energy supply. So our Secretary of State recognizes the national security implications of the world's oil energy supply. 
   One of the things she had in mind was this next chart. This is a really interesting one. This shows what the world would look like if the size of the country was relative to the amount of oil that it had in reserve. Boy, this is a warped map of the world, isn't it? There is China and India over there, so small you can hardly find them because they have very little oil. 
   Saudi Arabia is huge. It just dominates the landscape. Saudi Arabia has 22 percent, more than one-fifth of the world's reserves of oil. And notice little Kuwait through there, a tiny little province way down in there in the southeastern corner of Iraq, and Saddam Hussein thought that would look good as a province of Iraq, which was a problem about 12 years, 16 years ago, I guess. But look at the size of their reserves. 
   Iraq and Iran, the United Arab Emirates, just dots on the map, and look at how much oil they have. Then across northern Africa, Nigeria, Libya, Algeria, Egypt, and so forth. 
   Look in our hemisphere. Venezuela of course dwarfs everything else. Venezuela has more oil than all the rest of our hemisphere put together. Russia, big, but not huge compared to these other reserves. Little Kazakhstan, you see it's fairly large there. 
   So some really striking things about this map. One is the size of the reserves in India and China. About almost one-fourth of the world's population lives in India, about one-third, really, live in India and China, and they have no more oil than we have. Notice that our two biggest suppliers of oil are Canada and Mexico, and they have less oil than we. Now, there aren't very many people in Canada to use the oil, so they can export it to us. Although there are a lot of people in Mexico, most of them are too poor to use the oil, so they can export it to us. But look how Venezuela is dominating this hemisphere. 
   Another thing that Condoleezza Rice had in mind when she made that statement about how oil is warping the world's diplomacy was the distribution of the reserves of oil. On the right over there, we have the top 10 oil and gas companies on the basis of oil reserve holdings in 2004. Notice that 98 percent of those are governments, nationally owned oil reserves. LUKOIL in Russia, big, and they have 2 percent, and they are kind of quasi-government, really. 
   But notice over here on the left. Now, this is the top 10 oil and gas companies on the basis of production. The graph on the right shows how much oil they have, and the graph on the left shows how much oil they are producing. The big boys up here, ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell and BP and so forth, they weren't even big enough to show up over here on the right. They are not numbered among the top ten. So they don't own much oil but they are pumping a lot of oil that somebody else owns. So they are pumping 22 percent of the oil. But notice still that 78 percent of the oil is pumped by these national companies that own it there. Condoleezza Rice I'm sure had this in mind when she made that statement. 
   She also had this next chart in mind. This is an interesting one. This looks at holdings around the world. World energy picture of January of 2005. You will notice the symbols there for China. China is buying oil all over the world. Why would they do that? Because in today's world, it really doesn't make any difference who owns the oil. We own very little of the oil. We have 2 percent of the world's reserves, but we are using 25 percent of the world oil, and we do that because we come with our dollars. Let's hope it continues to be dollars rather than euros. We come with our dollars and we buy the oil. 
   So why are the Chinese buying up the oil when it doesn't make any difference in today's world economy who owns the oil? The person, the company, the country that comes with the dollars buys the oil. Well, at the same time that they are buying up all this oil, and I am sure Condoleezza Rice had this in mind, they were also very aggressively building a blue water navy. You see, you would need a blue water navy. We have the only one in the world now. You would need a blue water navy to protect the supply routes if you wanted to take the position that the oil was yours and you couldn't share it. 
   They have 1 billion 300 million people, and I can imagine that one day they may, with pressure from their people, tell the world, gee, I am sorry, but this oil is ours and we can't share it. They have 900 million people in what they call rural areas that, with the miracle of instant communication and television, have observed the benefits of the industrialized world, and they are clamoring for some of those benefits. I think that the Chinese recognize that they must do something to meet those demands or they might see their empire unraveling the way the Soviet empire unraveled. 
   So this is one group of people that have a concern about moving away from fossil fuels to alternatives, renewables. We have very few fossil fuels and so we have a big incentive to move away and develop renewables, and these are those who are concerned about national security interests. 
   There is a second group, and I don't have any charts for this group, but you have seen so much of this that you don't need me to have charts. This is a very large group of people who believe that our excessive use of fossil fuels, which is some releasing of carbon dioxide that has been sequestered through the ages when the sun shown on ancient subtropical seas and algae and small animals and plants and so forth grew there. Then at the end of the season they drop to the bottom and silt came in, and then more the next season. And then finally the tectonic plates opened up and they went down to a proper point where, with pressure and temperature and time, this organic material was converted into what we know today as oil and gas.  
   Coal is a little different. As a boy, I knew very well where coal came from because we lived in coal mining country. As a matter of fact, we had a coal mine on our farm, and the coal would come out of the mine, dust up to big chunks of coal. And we'd have to break some of those chunks to put it in our furnace. I remember taking that sledgehammer where it leaned against the wall and breaking a lump of coal and there it opened up and there was a big fern leaf. I remember as a kid the feelings I had. I wonder how long ago that fern grew. So I knew where coal came from plants. It came from plants that died. We can see the beginning of coal in the bogs of England, by the way. 
   But what we are doing in burning these fossil fuels is releasing the carbon dioxide that was sequestered in these plants over very long time periods. You see, what happens in photosynthesis is carbon dioxide is taken out of the air and oxygen is released into the air. If you now bury that plant, you now have sequestered the carbon dioxide. When you take it out and burn it, you are releasing the carbon dioxide. 
   In the last 100 years or so, we have doubled the concentration of carbon dioxide in our atmosphere. Now this is what we call a greenhouse gas. You see the effects, the greenhouse effects when you go out to your car in the parking lot in the summer and you open the door and that blast of heat hits you. What has happened is that the rays of the sun have come in over a broad spectrum of ways and they have heated up the interior of your car and that re-radiates in the infrared, and the glass of your car is relatively impervious to infrared, so it keeps that heat in there. The same thing happens in our world. The sun shines down and warms up things down here and they radiate back. 
   These greenhouse gases act very much in the atmosphere like the glass in your car or the glass in the greenhouse. It reflects the infrared back in, so it keeps us warmer. There are a growing number of people who believe that this increase in carbon dioxide, increasing the greenhouse gases are producing climate change in our world and producing a global warming. Of course, enough global warming could melt, it would take a very long time, couple of hundred years, probably, but could melt the polar ice caps. That would raise the level of the oceans about 200 feet. If you look around the world at the number of people who live in less than 200 feet above sea level, it's a big, big part of the world's population. 
   So these people who are concerned about global warming and climate change, and by the way, I would note that very small differences in temperature make huge changes in climate. During the last ice age about 10,000 years ago, our Earth was about 5 degrees Centigrade cooler than it is now. That is about 9 degrees Fahrenheit. That is not a whole lot. That is about like going from here to Minnesota. But that 9 degrees Fahrenheit difference in temperature caused the ice age. 
   So when you're looking at a temperature change and saying I go from one room in my house to another and there's a bigger change than that and the sky isn't falling, how come that is a big deal? Just remember that relatively small temperature changes can make huge climate changes. 
   Now, the solution to the problem that the climate change-global warming people see is exactly the same solution to the problem that the national security-concerned people see, and that is we have got to move away from fossil fuels. We have got to move to renewables where we are recycling the carbon dioxide. You see, if you burn something that grew this summer, if you burn it this fall, like burning wood from a tree that may have been growing for 30, 40 years, and taking CO  
   2 out of the air and storing it in the tree, then when you burn the tree, you put the CO 
   2 back in the air, but that is the same CO 
   2 the tree had taken out, so it's a balance and the CO 
   2 doesn't go up. 
   So what the climate change global-warming people want to do is to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and the concomitant release of carbon dioxide and instead substitute these renewables which simply recycle the carbon dioxide.     
   Now, if you are going nuclear, by the way, it is even better. After you have paid a carbon cost for building the nuclear power plant, then there is no carbon dioxide produced for the duration of that nuclear power plant. 
   The third group that have common cause, and before I talk about this group, I want to note that I think that the best interests of mankind, the best interests of our country, the best interest of Republicans and Democrats, will be served if we don't criticize each others' premise. There are those who believe that the global warming thing is just silly. There are others who believe that the foreign countries that own all this oil are going to play nice and give us the oil, so why worry about the national security interests. 
   But rather than criticizing the premise of these others, why don't we just lock arms, because what we want to solve the problems, and in just a moment I am going to talk about the third problem, which I think is really the big one, is to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and increase our reliance on alternatives. 
   The next chart, and I have got to go back 52 years to talk about the origin of this chart, because this all began 52 years ago. As a matter of fact, that anniversary will be the day after tomorrow. The 8th day of March in 1956, a speech was given in San Antonio, Texas, that I believe within a few years will be recognized as the most important speech given in all of the last century. That speech was given here in 1956, so we are right here on the chart now. 
   The United States is king of oil. We are producing more oil, using more oil, exporting more oil I think than any other country in the world, and an oil geologist by the name of M. King Hubbert in this very famous speech in San Antonio, Texas, told a group of oil people that in 14 years, roughly 14 years, it turned out to be 14, you will peak in oil production, and no matter what you do after that, you will not be able to produce more oil. 
   Now, remember, the United States then is king of oil. Oil wells everywhere, Oklahoma, Texas. A little interesting sidelight here, why were there so many? That is because, as I understand it, of the law of capture. If the oil came out of your well, you owned the oil, even though much of it might have been sucked out of the ground of the person that owned the land next to you. It was called the law of capture, I think. So if you wanted to get some of those revenues, you had to drill your own well. I understand that wells were drilled in graveyards and through the foyers of churches. If you look at some of those pictures, it looked like a forest of oil rigs out there, and I think the reason was this law of capture. But, right on schedule, in 1970 we peaked in oil production. This is a chart of that peak. We reached a peak here in 1970. 
   Now, M. King Hubbert had included only the Lower 48 in his prediction. He had not included Alaska, where we found a lot of oil. He had not included the Gulf of Mexico, where we found a meaningful amount of oil. But you notice that the slide down the other side of Hubbert's Peak just had a little blip from the oil that we found in Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico. 
   So, right on schedule M. King Hubbert and his prediction of a phenomenon which we call today peak oil, said that we would reach that maximum in the United States in 1970. Now, this same forecaster, with the enormous credibility of having been right on target for the United States, said that the world would be peaking about now. 
   The next chart is an interesting one, and if you had only one graph, one chart you could look at to talk about this, it would be this one, because this has so much information on it. The little bars here show the discoveries of oil. You notice that we started discovering it way back there, some of it in the Depression really, and then after the end of the Depression just before the war, and then huge discoveries in the fifties, the sixties and seventies. But ever since then, down, down, down, down. Kind of a ragged down, because every once in awhile you hit a pretty big field, and here is the spike here. But on average every year since the seventies and eighties it has been down, down, down. 
   The solid black line here represents the oil that we have produced, which is  also the oil we have used, because there is no big store of oil anywhere. We use it as we produce it. And a really interesting curve. 
   Notice the shape of this curve here. If nothing happened to change that curve, it would have gone off the top of the graph by this time. Well, something did happen to change the shape of that curve. You notice that changed in the seventies, and these were the oil price spike hikes engendered by the Arab oil embargo, and it caused a worldwide recession. Here is the worldwide recession, and, boy, we woke up, we and much of the rest of the world, and we found ways to do things more efficiently. Now we are recovering from that and the economy is great for most of the world, there is a little tremor now, but it has been a great economy. But you notice the slope of this curve after that is very much less than the slope of this curve. 
   There is an interesting statistic during the Carter years, up to the Carter years, as a matter of fact, that every decade we use as much oil as had been used in all of the world in all of previous history. Wow. What that means is, of course, when you have used half the oil, you have only one decade left. Well, we have really slowed down now. You can see the slope of this curve is very much less. 
   Now, when will the world reach its maximum oil production? See, what we have been doing since about 1980, we have found less and less oil, but we have used more and more oil, so this area here, the area above the oil that we found has been filled in by the oil that we found way back. 
   Now, we have got a lot these reserves left, and the makers of this chart say that this is the average of what we will find in the future. It won't be smooth, it will be up and down, but that is probably about the quantity that we will find. But we are using more. And they are suggesting that we will be peaking about now, as you can see, and that this area here will have to be filled in by reserves that we found back here, because we aren't finding any meaningful amount of oil now. So those who made this chart believe that oil in the world should be peaking about now. 
   The next chart shows the estimates of a number of authorities. Some of them have enormous uncertainty in when they think peak oil might occur. Here is one that says it could occur anytime between now and 2120, between 2020 and 2120. Here is one that says, gee, it could be anytime. But a great number of them believe it could be as early as about now. Here we are at about this point. A great many of them believe it could be now or shortly after this. So there is general consensus through most of the authorities in the world that peaking could be now. 
   The next chart kind of puts all of this in perspective, and this is an interesting chart. Let's just refer to the upper part of it. The lower part of it is a blowup of the upper part separating out gas from oil. 
   Hyman Rickover, who gave a great speech the 14th day of May, 1957, so this will be the 51st anniversary of his speech, noted that we were in an age of oil. I will have some quotes from his speech in a few moments. That we were in an age of oil. And he said in 8,000 years of recorded history we were, when he gave his speech, about 100 years into the age of oil. 
   This is a chart that looks not back through 8,000 years. But if we went back that far, the amount of energy used by mankind would be down here so near zero you could hardly see the difference. We go here about 400 years and the industrial revolution began with wood. And then we found coal, and, boy, it jumped up. And then we found gas and oil, and, wow, the quality of the energy, the extractability, how easy it was to get, how easy it was to use. And look what happened to energy use. It just spiked. Here we see that same discontinuity in the seventies, the worldwide recession, the oil price spike hikes. 
   Now, let's look at the next curve here, because this shows exactly the same curve. What we have done here is to expand the abscissa, that is this bottom, and compressed the ordinate, so now it is a low, smooth curve. If you pull this in and push that up, you can make the sharp curve that we saw over there. We had only gone this far over there. Now we really dip down the other side. 
   But I want to focus here on the yellow area of this chart. If we in fact are peaking in oil production, and if the world follows the pattern that we have been following in the United States, then the production of oil will look, it has looked up until now about like this, and in the future it will slide down the other side of Hubbert's Peak. 
   Today in the United States we produce half the oil that we produced in 1970, in spite of finding a lot of oil in Alaska and a fair amount of oil in the Gulf of Mexico, and in spite of drilling more oil wells than all of the rest of the world put together. So we are about at this point, I believe, and the demand is about 2 percent. 
   Now, 2 percent doesn't seem like much, does it? As a matter of fact, our stock market doesn't like 2 percent growth. It thinks that is anemic and it is likely not to do well. But 2 percent growth doubles in 35 years, and here we are talking about long time periods. It doubles in 35 years, it is four times bigger in 70 years, it is eight times bigger in 105 years, and it is 16 times bigger in 140 years. 
   This phenomenon of exponential growth caused Albert Einstein to respond to a question, gee, Dr. Einstein, what will be the next big energy force in the world? And he said the most powerful force in the world is the power of compound interest. The next, of course, after nuclear energy. 
   So, with this 2 percent growth, and I would submit that it is going to be hard to hold growth to 2 percent, because we have India and China coming on board. I was in Beijing about a year or so ago and they had banned bicycles in parts of Beijing because they were getting in the way of cars. With the demand of oil in India and China, I think it will be hard to hold it to 2 percent growth. But this is 2 percent growth, and it doubles in 35 years. So this period is 35 years. 
   Many people looking at the problem we face with peak oil say, gee, let's fill the peak. I think it is manifestly impossible to fill the peak, and I don't think we need to fill the peak. I would be happy if we were reasonably sure that we could just fill the area below this peak so we would have a plateau out here. I am not sure that the world will be able to do that. Neither am I sure that we have to do that to live well, actually. 
   The next quote is a quote from this really great speech given by Hyman Rickover. If M. King Hubbert's speech was the most important speech of the last century, and I think that it may have been, then I think maybe the most insightful speech of the last century was that speech given 51 years ago the 14th day of this May. 
   I came to this floor on the 50th anniversary of that, and Hyman Rickover's widow sat in the gallery there when I read largely from the really, really insightful prophetic speech that he gave. 
   These are some of the quotes. ``I suggest that this is a good time to think soberly about our responsibilities to our descendants.'' I do a lot of that. I have 10 kids, I have 16 grandkids, and I have two great grandkids, so I think a lot about my descendants. ``Those who will ring out the fossil fuel age.'' 
   Wow. I was thinking of this statement when I led a CODEL to China the last holiday, not this Christmas and New Year's, but the one before that, and we went there to talk about, the nine of us, went to talk to the Chinese about energy. And it was really interesting. 
   They began their discussion of energy by talking about post-oil. Wow. As Hyman Rickover said, there will be a post-oil, because if there is a fossil fuel age, the age of oil, then there will be some time after the age of oil. We in this country think in terms of the next quarterly report and how am I going to get myself elected the next time, and it is really interesting that people in that part of the world tend to think more in terms of generations and centuries. But the Chinese recognize that there will be an age of oil. 
   ``Those who will ring out the fossil fuel age, we might give a break to these youngsters by cutting fuel and metal consumption so as to provide a safer margin for the necessary adjustments which eventually must be made in a world without fossil fuels. There will one day be a world without fossil fuels.'' 
   I think that has to be obvious. If you look at the world, the whole thing is  not oil, and, even if it was, it wouldn't last for oil. But it is certainly not. So there will be one day be a world without oil, and Hyman Rickover was suggesting 51 years ago was a good time to start thinking about how we make that transition. 
   The next chart shows a reality that I don't know how many have thought about. This is a chart which shows on the abscissa the amount of energy you use, and on the right over here it shows how happy you are with your station in life.     
   Now, we use more energy than anybody else, and so there we are, the furthest one over here to the right, but we are not the happiest Nation in the world. There are 24 countries, everybody above this line, feels better, not just as good, better, about their quality of life than we feel about our quality of life, and some of them use only about half as much oil as we use. And when I look at the future and the huge challenges that we have from the future, I note that we have a lot of opportunity to live more efficiently and to live, not just as happily, but to live more happily, because there are 24 countries that use less oil than we, some only half the oil that we use, who feel better about their quality of life than we feel about ours. 
   Now, this third group that has common cause with the first two, the first two being those who are concerned about our national security, we get far too much of our oil from over there and, as the President appropriately said, from people who don't even like us. The second group is concerned about global warming and releasing all of this sequestered CO  
   2 from these fossil fuels and dumping it into the atmosphere and producing these greenhouse gases that reflect back the infrared radiation to the Earth and warm up the Earth. 
   By the way, I lived in Siberia. You might have a hard time convincing me that a warmer Earth would be all that bad. And I would note that, if they played nice over there, these guys who have all the oil, that may not be a problem, so the national security thing may not be a problem. 
   I would submit that the Earth has been very much warmer in the past. That is the only way we could have had subtropical seas in the north slope and the North Sea and ANWR and so forth. A warmer Earth will be very different, better for some people, worse for others, and I don't think it is a risk worth taking. But many will argue that, gee, the sky may not fall if the Earth gets warmer. 
   But I will tell you that this third group of people, the people who are concerned about peak oil, there is no way that we are going to get through that without a very bumpy ride unless we aggressively pursue this challenge. 
   Now, I am excited about this. My wife tells me that I really shouldn't be talking about this because people in ancient Greece killed the messenger that brought bad news, and I need to get myself reelected and I shouldn't be talking about this. I tell her, this is a good news story. The good news is that if we start today to meet this challenge, the ride will be less bumpy than if we start tomorrow. 
   But the really good news part of this is that there is no exhilaration like the exhilaration of meeting and overcoming a big challenge. And, boy, this is a big challenge. 
   Many of the problems we have with our unemployed and our kids and so forth in this country are because time weighs heavily on their hands, and they end up doing sometimes hurtful things to themselves and society. I lived through World War II, the last war, by the way, in which everybody was involved. It was the last war in which our country was at war. Now, our military has been at war since then and our military families have been at war since then. But, boy, World War II, our country was at war. Everybody knew we were at war. Not a single automobile was made for public consumption in 1943, 1944, and 1945. You had to have a ration coupon to buy gas. If you convinced them you were a good churchgoer, they would give you enough to go to church; otherwise, you stayed home or walked to church. You had to get a coupon to get sugar to do your canning with. There was a real scarcity of automobile tires. We saved our household grease and took it to a central repository. We had daylight savings time, that comes this weekend, and we had daylight savings time because then we had an extra hour to spend in our victory gardens. And there was no law from Congress that said you had to have a victory garden, but, boy, everybody who could, talk to your grandparents, they probably dug up their backyard and they put a garden there. I saw pictures of vacant lots in New York City where they took all the rubble and piled it up in rows and planted gardens between them. Everybody was involved in that war. 
   And I will tell you, if we are going to get through this, this is a huge challenge, it will require the best of us. But we are the most creative, innovative society in the world. And, with leadership, which is I think fairly conspicuously absent today, I think that we can rally to this cause. 
   What we need to get through this is the total commitment we had in World War II. We need to have the technology focus of when we put a man on the Moon and we need to have the urgency of the Manhattan Project. 
   By the way, that technology focus would do other really nice things for us. I talk to a lot of businesses that cannot find enough technically trained people. Our young people today just aren't turned on to training in science, math, and engineering. Many of them are becoming lawyers and political scientists. I think we have quite enough of both of those, thank you. 
   I remember during the less than a decade, our President challenged us to do it in a decade and we did it in less than a decade, putting a man on the Moon. And I remember how turned on, it captured the imagination of the American people and inspired our young people to go into careers of math, science, and engineering. I remember a cartoon of a little redheaded, freckle-faced buck-toothed young fellow who said, ``Six months ago, I couldn't even spell `engineer' and now I are one.'' 
   Everybody wanted to be involved in this. And we need to have the technology focus that we had then, and what that will do is inspire more of our bright young people. We have really bright young people, and they need to be going into pursuits that will really be productive like science, math, and engineering. If we inspire them to go into those positions, we might once again become a manufacturing exporting Nation. 
   By the way, the technologies that we will need to develop to exploit these renewables, I think we could become the center for that in the world and, once again, could become a major exporting Nation. 
   Again, I say, we are the most creative, innovative society in the world. Somehow, somehow, the genius of our Founding Fathers and the Constitution they gave us, which really, really respects the rights of the individual, created a milieu, a climate in which creativity and entrepreneurship would flourish, and it is still flourishing. Just look at our small businesses, that they are responsible for bringing us out of recession. So I am really enthusiastic about this. 
   Everybody needs to be committed. We need to have the technology focus of putting a man on the Moon. And this is urgent. Just in the last few days, I have three things in front of me here where others are recognizing that this is urgent. There is a 2-day summit with our National Academy of Sciences, and they are looking at America's energy future. It is about time. They are going to be looking at America's energy future. 
   We have a huge challenge. We use one-fourth of the world's oil, we have 2 percent of the world's oil, and the President very correctly said that we are hooked on oil. And, like the cocaine addict who is hooked on his drug, he has just got to have another fix, and so now there is a clamor to go out and drill for that oil up in 
   ANWR and drill for that oil offshore. 
   I haven't voted for those. I have 10 kids, 16 grandkids, and two great grandkids. We are leaving them a horrendous debt, not with my votes, but a horrendous debt. And I just ask, wouldn't it be nice if we could leave them a little energy? 
   I was asked to vote to drill in ANWR, and my question was: If you could drill and pump ANWR tomorrow, what will you do the day after tomorrow? And for  my kids and grandkids and great-grandkids, there is going to be a day after tomorrow. 
   Now, I will vote to drill in ANWR and offshore when a commitment is made that all of the energy that we get from those fields will be invested in alternatives. You see, today we have a situation where we have run out of time and there is no surplus energy. If there was surplus energy, oil wouldn't be $105 a barrel this morning. 
   When I say we have run out of time, I am really very critical of what we, the world, has done in the last 28 years. I say 28 years because that takes us back to 1980. And, by 1980, it was absolutely certain that M. King Hubbard was right about the United States. We peaked in 1970. By 1980, we are sliding down the other side of what is called Hubbard's Peak. So we knew he was right about the United States. Now, I believe it was in 1979, just a year before, that he predicted the world would be peaking about now. 
   And I ask you, if M. King Hubbard was so right about the United States, shouldn't there have been some concern that maybe, just maybe, he might be right about the world? And wouldn't it have been appropriate to look at that possibility and put some programs in place that would address that potential eventuality? 
   You know, it is very difficult to look back on what we have done without using a couple of not very complimentary analogies. When we first found that incredible wealth under the ground, and, boy, that was incredible wealth. One barrel of oil, and we use about 22 million barrels a day in our country, by the way. One barrel of oil has the work output of 12 people working all year, 25,000 man hours of work. 
   When I first saw that number, I thought that can't be true; 12 people working all year, one barrel of oil has that much energy in it? And then I thought about that one gallon of gasoline, still cheaper than water in the grocery store if you are buying it in little bottles, how far that takes my Prius. Our Prius now is 47 miles per gallon averaging over the last maybe 20,000 miles. Now, I could pull my Prius 47 miles. That is almost all the way from here to my home in Frederick. That would take me a long while. I would have to get come-alongs and hook to the guardrail and so forth to pull the car. I could do it. And so I finally said, gee, that is probably right. Every barrel of oil has the energy equivalent of 25,000 man hours of work, 12 people working all year for you. 
   As a matter of fact, I saw a statistic recently that was really interesting. If there was no gas, oil, or coal, no nuclear, no sun, no hydro, if the only power available was the power of human activity to enjoy the quality of life that each of us enjoys, there would have to be 300 people out there working. That is the amount of energy from fossil fuels that each one of us consumes. We live as well as if there were 300 people out there working to support our quality of life. No wonder Hyman Rickover referred to this as a golden age. 
   The next chart kind of shows where we are and where we are going. All three of these groups want to move away from fossil fuels to alternatives, of course for very different reasons and, again, I stop criticizing each other's premise, because what we want to do to solve the problem as we see it is exactly the same thing: Move away from fossil fuels to renewables. How are we going to do that? 
   Now, there are some finite resources that are really quite unconventional, and we are exploiting some of them now. From the tar sands in Canada, we are getting about 1 million barrels of oil a day. That is with heroic efforts. They are using local gas which is stranded, which means that it is far away from any population and, therefore, it is cheap and so you can use it for something like this. They have a huge tailings pond which is full of all sorts of noxious chemicals. And the vein, if you are thinking of it as the vein, is on top and it will soon have to duck under an overlay so they have to exploit it in situ, and they don't know how to do that yet. They have a shovel, which lifts 100 tons at a time. They dump it in a truck, which hauls 400 tons. They haul it to a cooker, which cooks it until it loosens up its stiff oil and it flows, and they add some chemicals to it to keep it flowing when it cools down. They are getting about 1 million barrels a day, and that is 1 million out of 88 million that the world is producing. So a bit more than 1 percent, but it is not sustainable and they know it is not. They are going to need more oil, they are going to run out of water by and by. 
   But if they could continue this exploitation, there is more potential oil in the tar sands of Canada than there is in all of the huge oil reserves that we showed on that map of the world that we showed earlier. So there is a huge potential there.     
   But remember, in any one of these things, you need to look at energy-profit ratio, how much energy you need to put in to get out a unit of energy. And if you are putting in more energy than you get out, obviously you are not going to do that, and you are going to move on to some other source. 
   The oil shales in our western United States, they have reserves at least as large and maybe some larger, some believe, up in the trillions of barrels of oil. 
   By the way, and we will come to the number later, but the world had about we believe 2 trillion barrels of recoverable oil. We have recovered about 1 trillion of those barrels. Most authorities believe there is another trillion to be recovered. Some believe we can find more and get more out of the present reservoirs. 
   But in spite of the brightest people in the world, the most aggressive economy in the world, we have not been able to reverse our slide down the other side of Hubbert's Peak. So when you are listening to people speaking about a rosy future with abundant oil, remember that the United States with all of our superiority has not been able to reverse our slide down the other side of Hubbert's Peak. 
   There are a number of organizations looking at exploiting that. It is called ``the rocks that burn'' by the Indians. When you heat it up, it becomes oil. It is not exactly oil in the form that it is found. Can we develop that, how quickly, how much will we get from it, we will certainly get something from it by and by, but remember this energy-profit ratio. 
   Coal. We have a lot of coal. Not as much as we thought we had. The National Academy of Sciences took a new look at that, and they said that the conventional wisdom that there was 250 years out there at current use rates, and be very careful when someone mentions current use rates when making projections for the future because, with growth, that time duration really shrinks. 
   The National Academy of Sciences now says we have something like 100 years of coal at current use rates. I have a chart that shows what that really means in terms of energy that is available to us. 
   Then we have nuclear. We have three different potential sources of nuclear energy. The one that the world is using for producing energy is fusion, light water reactor plants. France gets about 75 to 80 percent of their electricity from fusion. We get about 20 percent. We are much bigger than France and so we produce more electric power than France produces, but not so high a percentage of what we use. 
   Fissile uranium is a finite resource. The world will one day run out. I have no idea when that will be because I get wildly divergent estimates when I ask people how long will it last: 10 years, 30 years, 100 years. We need an honest broker. It is hard to have a discussion when there isn't agreement on the facts. I would like to commission the National Academy of Sciences to help us decide on what the reserves are and what the resources are so we can have a productive dialogue. But even when we run out of fissile uranium, we still can get nuclear power from what we call breeder reactors. 
   They have problems, and you are producing stuff that is potentially weapons grade and you are hauling it around for enrichment, and there are opportunities for terrorists. Then there is an end product that you need to store away for a quarter of a million years. I understand there are potential breakthroughs there where we can burn more of this fuel, and we end up with a waste product which is much less radioactive with a shorter half-life. So the storage problems are going  to be reduced. There is lot of new technology in the nuclear area, and I will tell you that some who have been stout opponents of nuclear, when they are considering a likely alternative in an energy-deficient world of shivering in the dark, nuclear is looking better to them. 
   Nuclear fusion. That is the only energy source out there that is a silver bullet. If we find that, we are home free. By the way, we have a great fusion reactor. It is called the Sun. And the Sun is the source of almost all the energy we use. It was the shining of the Sun a long while ago that produced the plants that produced the gas, oil, and coal. It is the shining of the Sun that produces the differential temperatures and makes the winds blow. It is the sunshine that lifts the water from the ocean and the plains and drops it on the mountains and it flows down through the dams to produce hydropower. There are only a few sources of power that don't come from the Sun: nuclear, a trifling amount of chemical, and the tides don't come from the Sun. 
   By the way, there is a huge potential amount of energy in the oceans, but it is so disbursed that it is just hard to collar it. There is an old axiom that says that energy or power to be effective must be concentrated. Look at the tides. The Moon lifts the oceans 2 or 3 feet. I carry two 5-gallon buckets of water, and that is heavy. How much energy would it take to lift the whole ocean, 75 percent of the world's surface, 2 or 3 feet? But the problem is harnessing that energy. 
   But there are other potential ocean energy sources, like the ocean thermal gradients. In the tropics, it is very warm on the surface and very cold on the bottom. And there are several technologies for getting energy from that temperature difference. 
   Then we get to the true renewables. By the way, there are many people who don't really think it is necessary to talk about this because they are market enthusiasts, and they will tell you that the market will solve this problem. The market will solve this problem. You may not like the way that the market will solve this problem because the price of oil, unless we do something and move aggressively towards alternatives, may go really high. I hear people telling me gas may go to $20 or $25 a gallon in an energy-deficient world. So the market will solve the problem, but you may not like the way the market solves the problem. 
   There are two problems. One is that the resources are not infinite and they are not available in the time in which the market would like to have them. The second problem is that the market signals are not timely enough. 
   One of the big studies done, our government, your government, has paid for four studies. They are ignoring all of them. The first one, the Hirsch Report, said that the world has never faced a problem like this, and challenges us to plan for this a couple of decades ahead because they said if you haven't started to plan for this two decades ahead, there will be some economic consequences. If it is only a decade ahead, there will be big economic problems. And if you wait until it is upon you, and apparently it is, they said the world has never faced a problem like this. There is no precedent in history. 
   The next chart shows those things in an interesting form. I would like to use analogy for this chart, and that is, the young couple whose grandparents have left them a big inheritance and they have a lavish lifestyle where 85 percent of the money they spend comes from their grandparents' inheritance and 15 percent is from their income. They look at the inheritance and it is going to run out a long time before they retire at the rate they are spending it. So they have to either make more or spend less. 
   Here we are: 85 percent of all of our energy comes from coal, gas, and petroleum, the oil. So 15 percent is left. A bit more than half of that is nuclear electric power, and the rest is renewables. Now, some people have it 86-14, but it is roughly 85-15. Notice the breakout here of the renewables. In 2000, solar was 0.07 percent. So maybe it is 10 times bigger. That is still a tiny, tiny amount. 
   Wood. That is the timber industry and the paper industry wisely burning what would otherwise be a waste product, filling up landfills. 
   Waste energy. That is a great idea, a whole lot better than putting it in a landfill. We ought to recycle what we can productively recycle and then burn the rest of it. And there is a great facility in Montgomery County, and it is really a class facility. I wouldn't mind having it next to my church. It is a great-looking building. You don't see or smell the trash, and it is producing electricity. But that is not a solution to our energy problem because most of the trash that they are burning is the consequence of profligate use of fossil fuel energy. And in a fossil fuel-deficient world, that trash stream is going to be very much less. So for the moment that is a good idea, but it is not a solution to our problem. 
   Wind. Wind is the most rapidly growing alternative today. The leading country in that is Denmark. They produce electricity at a cent and a half a kilowatt hour. We can do it here for 2.5 or so cents a kilowatt hour. 
   Conventional hydro. We are tapped out on that, probably. Some believe we can get as much hydro from what is called microhydro. It is much less environmentally threatening, small devices in streams to produce electricity. 
   Alcohol fuel. I have just a moment to spend on that. The National Academy of Sciences says that if we turn all of our corn into ethanol, all of it, and discount it for fossil fuel input, that it would displace 2.4 percent of our gasoline. This is not Roscoe Bartlett saying that; this is the National Academy of Sciences. They noted if you tuned up your car and put air in the tires, you could save as much energy as you would get from all of our corn converted to ethanol. We haven't converted it all, but the amount that we have converted has doubled the price of corn. And our farmers diverted land from wheat and soybeans to corn, and there was an increased demand for wheat and soybeans, so now the price of all three, for these major foods, for poor people around the world is up. 
   In fact, a member of the United Nations said what we had innocently done, inadvertently done, unintended consequences, was a crime against humanity because now three of the basic four foodstuffs in the world, rice, corn, wheat and soybeans, have increased in price because we had this government-subsidized corn ethanol program. 
   We will get something from biomass, from cellulosic ethanol, something from corn. But Hyman Rickover cautioned wisely in his speech 51 years ago, you should be careful eating your food. He also said you should be careful you don't burn up the fertility of your soil by removing the organic material which produces what we call tilth, which is what makes the difference between topsoil and subsoil. It holds nutrients and water. We will get something from these. I think now there is an irrational exuberance, as was said about the market a few years ago. We will get something, but it is not a silver bullet. It will not be a huge amount. And we use so much oil, it will barely make a dent in it. 
   Geothermal. That is true geothermal, tapping the molten core of the Earth. That is one source of energy that didn't come from the Sun. We need to exploit that more. That is not tying your air conditioner, your heat pump to ground temperature, which is a great idea. In the summertime to cool your house, you are trying to heat up that 100-degree air outside. It is easier to heat up the ground at 56 degrees. In the winter, you are doing the opposite. 
   The next chart looks at coal. This assumes 250 years. If you grow only 2 percent, and I think we will need to dip into our coal more than 2 percent, if we have less and less oil, it shrinks to 85 years. If you use some of the energy from the coal to produce a gas or a liquid, and it is not fair to make the comparison if you don't, then it shrinks to 50 years. 
   Now another interesting phenomenon here, which is unavoidable, we are going to have to share that with the world because if we use the oil that we produce from coal, then the oil we might have used someone else will use. So in effect you are sharing it with the world. So now 12 divided by 4, we use a fourth of the oil, is 12.5 years. It is even less if it is only 100 years, maybe 6 years or so. 
   The next chart is a great example of efficiency. This shows producing light from the incandescent bulb, the fluorescent, and the light-emitting diode.  The green on the top is the light. It is the same in all of these. The blue is the energy. And notice that the incandescent bulb is a better heater than light source. I brood my chickens with that. 
   Notice the light-emitting diode. If you have an LED flashlight, you will forget when you put batteries in it, and we need to move to these kinds of technologies. 
   I have one final chart to end this discussion with. There are two major entities in the world that follow the production and consumption of oil, and they make assumptions about the future. I wouldn't pay much attention to their assumptions about the future because they have been consistently wrong, but they are very good at charting what we have used. 
   This is the EIA, the Energy Information Administration, a part of our Department of Energy; and it is the IEA, the International Energy Association, this is a part of the United Nations. This is a group that has been following what has been going on in Iran. Both of them have been tracking what we have been using in oil, and these are their lives.     
   And these are their lines. And notice, for about the last 3 years, 30 months or more, they're essentially flat. And during that time, that's just about the time that I have been coming here to the floor. It'll be 3 years the 14th day of March that I made my first speech on the floor here relative to this subject. And during that time, oil has doubled in price. Here we are at about $50 a barrel. And there we are up there at, well, off the chart now, above $100 a barrel. 
   In the few moments remaining to us, I'd like to look at a couple of charts. This is a very recent statement, January 22, by the CEO of Shell Oil. By the year 2100, the world's energy system will be radically different from today. Boy, will it. The world's current predicament limits our maneuvering room. We are experiencing a step change in the growth of energy demand. And Shell estimates that after 2015, supplies of easy to access oil and gas will no longer keep up with demand. He's saying it's going to peak about then. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would like to close by saying again that this is an enormously invigorating challenge. America's up to this challenge. What we need is the leadership necessary to make this happen. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (PEAK OIL -- (House of Representatives - April 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Madam Speaker, I believe that this is the 41st  time that I have come to the floor since 3 years ago, the 14th day of March, to talk about energy, specifically about oil. 
   Here is a copy of the Washington Times today. The main headline: ``Global Food Riots Turn Deadly.'' And then if I turn to the front page ``promo-ing'' what's inside, Business, Gas Hits Record: ``The upward trend in energy prices showed no sign of abating yesterday as gasoline set another record at the pump and crude oil topped $112 a barrel for the first time in the futures market.'' 
   If I go back to the lead article, it says clashes likely to persist with soaring prices. ``Anger over spiraling world food prices is becoming increasingly violent.'' This is a quote from the head of the Rome-based U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization: ``World food prices have risen 45 percent in the last 9 months, and there are serious shortages,'' serious shortages, ``of rice, wheat, and corn. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon issued a personal appeal for calm in Haiti yesterday. At least five people have been reported killed in disturbances since last week after the cost of rice doubled and gas prices rose a third time since February.'' 
   This could have been predicted 28 years ago. I will explain in a few moments why I use 28 years ago. It was an absolute certainty that at some point in time, roughly this time, that we would be here talking about this crisis. 
   This first chart is an interesting one. The motorist is looking at today $3 and 30 some cents a gallon for gasoline, and he says, ``Just why is gas so expensive?'' He has a tiny little supply there and a huge, big demand in his SUV. And, Madam Speaker, that's why gas prices are high. There is more demand for gas than there is gas available, and the marketplace demands that the price of gasoline go up. 
   This saga started 52 years ago, the 8th day of March, in San Antonio, Texas, when what I believe will be recognized shortly as the most important speech given in the last century was delivered to a group of oil scientists and engineers and executives in San Antonio, Texas. 
   The next chart shows the prediction that was made in 1956 by M. King Hubbert, who was this oil geologist. He was talking to a group of people representing the country, our country, which was then king of oil, producing more oil, consuming more oil, exporting more oil than any other country in the world. And he told them that in just 14 years, no matter what we did before or after that, that oil production would reach a maximum in our country and after that it would go down, down, down. What he said was audacious and disbelieved, but 14 years later, in 1970, right on schedule, we peaked in oil production. 
   And this is a chart which shows that peaking. It shows Texas producing a third or so of the oil at that time and the rest of the United States. Natural gas liquids added to that. And then it shows the enormous discovery of oil in Alaska, and I have been there to Prudhoe Bay, Dead Horse, and I have seen the beginning of that 4 foot pipeline through which for a number of years now a full fourth of our domestic production of oil flowed. That is now tapering off. 
   The yellow there are the fabled discoveries of oil in the Gulf of Mexico. You notice that in his prediction that we would reach a peak in 1970, there was just a blip in the downward slope produced by the huge discovery in Alaska. He had not included Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico in his prediction. It was just the lower 48. And notice there was hardly a ripple of those famed discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico. 
   The next chart shows another depiction of the Hubbert Peak. And I show this one because this is used by a group, CERA, Cambridge Energy Research Associates, to try to convince you that you should not be alarmed by M. King Hubbert's prediction, that the world would be doing now about the same thing the United States did in 1970 because he was wrong about the United States in 1970. They said, you see, his prediction of what the production of oil would be are these yellow triangles and the actual production were the green squares and he missed it. 
   Well, maybe a statistician could give you an analysis which could say he had missed it, but I think to the average citizen, those two curves look pretty darn similar, don't they? And I think the average citizen would say I think he probably got it. We did peak in 1970, and in spite of what we have done then, in the lower 48, we pretty much followed that curve. 
   And then this is the red now. That includes the total production which includes Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico. 
   In 1979 M. King Hubbert predicted that the world would reach its maximum oil production about now. And the next chart is a very insightful one. If you had only one chart to use to discuss this subject, this would be the chart that you would use. It shows the discoveries of oil. We discovered a whole lot of it back in the 1940s. I actually remember those times very well. My first car was a 1936 Ford, made just 10 years after I was born. Then lots of discoveries in 1950 and the 1960s and 1970s. And notice what has happened, 1970s, 1980s, 1990s, 2000, down, down, down in discovery. And that's in spite of ever better techniques for finding oil. 3-D seismic and computer modeling and, boy, we've mapped the world, and we know pretty much where oil is likely to be found because it's found in only very unique geologic formations and we know what they are and we know where they likely exist. 
   Now, the solid black line here is our consumption of oil, and it's also our production because we haven't been storing huge amounts of it anywhere. We have a small strategic reserve in our country, small in terms of the oil that we use in a year, really small. So we aren't storing it anywhere; so what we have consumed is what we have produced. And you see that that shows an ever-increasing slope here. 
   Up through the Carter years, every decade, we used as much oil as we had used in all of previous history. I want you to reflect on that for just a moment. What that meant was, of course, if we had kept on that trend, when we had used half of the world's oil, and it is finite, and when we used half of the world's oil, we would have just 10 years of oil left at that rate of usage. 
   Now, in the 1970s, late 1970s, we had the oil price spike hikes as a result of the Arab oil embargo, and that caused a worldwide recession. You see here that the use of oil actually dropped off. It caused a worldwide recession and we woke up. We said we can get things done more efficiently. So now with an increasing economy, greatly increased economy, we are now using oil at an ever less increasing rate. This slope, it's very much less than this slope, and that reflects the increased efficiencies that we have built in. Your air conditioner today is maybe three times as efficient as it was in the 1970s. Your refrigerator is two or three times as efficient as it was then. 
   Notice that ever since 1982 or so, we have been using more oil than we found. And we were able to do that because we had these huge reserves back here. So what we have been doing ever since the early 1980s is dipping into these reserves and using some of this oil that we found and didn't need because the area under this curve represents the oil that we have used. And, obviously, if you add up all these bars, it represents the oil we found, and you could put a curve over those, and the area under that curve would then represent the oil that we found. So we now have used this area here in terms of our reserves, and we used about this much reserves probably; so we have a whole bunch left. 
   So what will the future look like? Now, M. King Hubbert predicted that the world would be reaching its maximum oil production about now. And this chart you see at about 2008, 2010, it shows it peaking. Now, you can within limits make the future look reasonably whatever way you want it to look like, but you cannot pump what is not there. If you are really aggressive and build a whole lot of wells and flood them with live steam and pump CO  
   2 down there and flood them with seawater, which is what they do in Saudi Arabia, you can get the oil out quicker.     
   But what you use now will not be there to use tomorrow. How much more will we find? Well, they have shown a smooth discovery curve getting ever less and less. It won't be smooth like that. It will be up and  down. But if I were drawing a line and projecting it out, I wouldn't have drawn it quite that high. And I don't think you would either. You would draw it somewhere below that. I think that is maybe an optimistic assessment of what we will find in the future if what we have discovered in the past is any measure of what we will discover in the future. 
   The next chart is a chart which M. King Hubbert anticipated. This is an interesting one because it represents data from the two best organizations in the world for tracking the production and consumption of oil. Because as I said before, we use what we found pretty quickly. We haul it across the ocean, refine it and use it. This is the EIA, the Energy Information Administration, a part of our Department of Energy, and the IEA, the International Energy Association. That one most people are familiar with because El Baradei is the head of that. And they have been kind of monitoring what is going on in Iran. You see them frequently in the newspaper. 
   Notice that for the last 3 years roughly they show the production of oil as constant. There have been several appeals. You will read about them in the newspaper: Saudi Arabia, OPEC, won't you please produce some more oil? What OPEC says is, we think we are producing enough oil. I think that the correct answer really is, we can't produce oil any faster than we are producing it. I think that they have probably reached their maximum production of oil. The little blue line here shows what has happened to price, and notice in the last year or so what has happen to price, up, up, up. 
   The first time I came to the floor here, as I said, was a bit more than 3 years ago and oil was, what, 50 and a couple of dollars a barrel. Now today it was $112 a barrel. 
   The production of oil has remained constant. The demand for oil has gone up. That is really a simple relationship. When the demand for a product is greater than the supply of the product, people bid it up. It is like at an auction. If two or three people want something, and there is only one of the thing they want, they bid it up to ridiculously high levels. And that is what is happening with oil. To get it, you have to outbid the other guy. And so now it is $112 a barrel. 
   The next chart is a schematic chart. And it shows the same curve we have been looking at. And by the way, it is obvious that we can make this curve really sharp by simply expanding the ordinate and compressing the abscissa. Here it is spread out. But in any event, this follows a roughly 2 percent increase in use. That doesn't sound like much, does it? As a matter of fact, our stock market gets really jittery when our growth is only 2 percent. It is going to have to get over that, Madam Speaker, because we can't continue 2 percent growth forever. With 2 percent growth, it doubles in 35 years. It is four times bigger in 70 years. It is 8 times bigger in 105 years. And it is 16 times bigger in 140 years. 
   Now, when your only perspective is the next quarterly report or getting yourself through the next election, this 2 percent growth, which in 140 years from now will be 16 times bigger, makes whatever is growing at 2 percent, 16 times bigger may not seem very important to you. But I have ten kids and 16 grandkids and two great grandkids. And I would sure like them to live in a world as comfortable as the world I live in and to have the opportunities that I've had. 
   This yellow here represents a growing gap. If, in fact, we are at this point, and the charts that we have just seen would indicate that we probably are, then the increasing demand is going to result in a deficit which will be reflected in higher oil prices and higher gas prices at the pump. The big focus that most people are talking about is, gee, how are we going to fill that gap? Let me suggest, Madam Speaker, that we are not going to fill that gap. There are no readily available substitutes for oil out there. A little bit of this and a little of that, if you sum them all up, they are still far short of the amount of oil we are now using. 
   Now we are going to continue to have oil. We are not running out of oil. What we are doing is running out of our ability to produce oil as fast as we would like to use it. There will be oil, gas and coal around for another 150 years, ever less and less, harder and harder to get, at higher and higher costs. 
   The next chart is really a quote from what I think will shortly be recognized perhaps as the most insightful speech given in the last century, given 51 years ago, the 14th day of this May. Hyman Rickover, the father of our nuclear submarine, gave this speech to a group of physicians in Saint Paul, Minnesota. You can find that. 
   There is a link in our Website to it, or you can simply do a Google search for ``Rickover energy speech,'' and it will pop up. It was a really insightful speech. 
   In the 8,000 years from the beginning of history to the year 2000 AD, world population will have grown from 10 million to 4 billion. He kind of missed that. World population is about 7 billion people now. With 90 percent of that growth taking place during the last 5 percent of that period, with way more than 90 percent of that growth taking place in the last 5 percent of that period. It took the first 3,000 years of recorded history to account the first doubling of population, 100 years from the last doubling, but the next doubling will require only 50 years. As a matter of fact, it required considerably less than 50 years. 
   The next chart is not a chart of population growth, but it could just as well have been. This is a chart showing the increase in energy availability, our consumption of energy. And if I superimpose on this a chart of population growth, it would follow this almost exactly. Our world population has grown from half a billion or so to 7 billion people, and most of it, as Hyman Rickover pointed, in the last little while. And look, I don't go back 8,000 years. I only go back 400 years, but if I went back the rest of the 8,000 years, it would still be pretty much down near zero. 
   The Industrial Revolution began with wood. And then we found coal. And boy, did it take off when we found gas and oil. Now here we see that discontinuity in the 1970s, what we have done here, of course, is to expand the ordinate and compress the abscissa so that we have a very sharp curve. That is the same curve we have seen several times before. But it looks different depending on the scale you have in the ordinate and in the abscissa. 
   The next chart is some data in Hyman Rickover's speech. And it is even more so today. With high energy consumption goes a high standard of living, he said. Thus, the enormous fossil fuel which we in this country control feeds machines which make each of us a master of an army of mechanical slaves. This was 51 years ago. What he said then is true even more so today. He said that we represent, I have seen data a little more than this, roughly 35 watts of energy, sleeping and waking. Standing here and talking here, I am more like a 70-watt bulb. That is not very much, is it? As a matter of fact, if you look at the amount of food which you eat in a day, if you dried it, if you burned it and made a fire of it, it would hardly warm your fingers on a cold day. Just look at the C Rations that our military uses and how compact they are. You put water in them and they swell up. They look like a lot. But the actual dry material there is not much. In fact, he said 51 years ago, the household appliances that make life so comfortable for the family represented the work output of 33 men. He said that the machines which make our cars and refrigerators and so forth represent 244 men. Two thousand men push your automobile down the road. The energy it takes to move your car down the road is the energy of 2,000 men working. One hundred thousand men push the locomotive down the road. And 700,000 men push the jet plane through the sky. 
   When I first saw the data that said that one barrel of oil represented 25,000 man hours of effort, the work output of 12 people working all year, I said to myself, gee, that can't be. But then I thought, I have a Prius car. I bought the first one in Congress and the first one in Maryland. And a gallon of gasoline is still cheaper than water in the grocery store, by the way, if you buy it in the little bottles. I thought about how far that gallon of gasoline takes my car and how long it would take me to pull it those 47 miles that the gallon of gasoline takes my car. I said, gee, it is probably true that one barrel of oil represents the work output of 12 people working all year. Now we are the beneficiaries of an incredible quality of life  which is the result, the direct result of our access to all of this energy. 
   The next chart is another quote from Hyman Rickover, whether this Golden Age, and it is a golden age. Nobles of old lived nowhere near as well as we live today. The poorest in our country, maybe it's not quite true in other countries, live better than nobles of yesteryear because of the incredible access that we have to this energy. Whether this Golden Age will continue depends entirely upon our ability to keep energy supplies in balance with the needs of our growing population. Now we haven't done that or we wouldn't have headlines like this today: ``Global food riots turn deadly.'' 
   In a few moments, I will discuss the relationship between those global food riots and this other headline: ``Gas hits a record.'' 
   Possession of surplus energy is, of course, a requisite for any kind of civilization. For if man possesses merely the energy of his own muscles, he must expend all his strength, mental and physical, to obtain the bare necessities of life. 
   This article on food notes that in much of the third world, 50 to 60 percent of the income of the family goes to food. Do you know what that is in our country? It is less than 10 percent. Food doubling in price in our country doesn't mean much. But if you're paying 50 percent of your income to buy food, and it doubles in price, then it takes 100 percent of your income to buy that food. So it really, really is important to the poor of the world. 
   A reduction of per capita energy consumption has always, in the past, led to a decline in civilization and a reversion to a more primitive way of life. 
   The next is another quote in from Hyman Rickover. By the way, Madam Speaker, I am going through these quotes, and then I am going to use quotes from four studies that our government has paid for with our taxpayers' money and then ignored. And what I am going to be asking is, with this history, with this great speech given by Hyman Rickover 51 years ago, and with the warnings in these four studies released over the last several years, why aren't you hearing more about a meaningful program to address this energy challenge that we face? 
   There is nothing man can do to rebuild exhausted fossil fuel reserve. They were created by solar energy a long time ago, he says 500 million years ago, it took eons to grow to their present volume. In the face of the basic fact that fossil fuel reserves are finite, that's a great statement. Just reflect on this. 
   The exact length of time that these reserves will last is important in only one respect. 
   Now he didn't know how long they were going to last because he didn't know how long this Golden Age will last. But we now know pretty much. It will be, Madam Speaker, about 300 years long. We are about 150 years into it. We are now at the pinnacle of the Golden Age. Will it be in another 150 years as these fossil fuels become less and less available at higher and higher costs? 
   The exact length of time that these reserves will last is important in only one respect. The longer they last, the more time that we have to invent ways of living off renewable or substitute energy sources and to adjust our economy to the vast changes which we can expect from such a shift. Fifty-one years ago. Really prophetic. 
   Madam Speaker, with this kind of insightful advice 51 years ago, with headlines like this in the paper, with these four reports paid for by our government, why haven't we done something? Why aren't we doing something?     
   ``Fossil fuels resemble capital in the bank.'' 
   I love this statement. ``A prudent and responsible parent will use his capital sparingly in order to pass on to his children as much as possible of his inheritance. A selfish and irresponsible parent will squander it in riotous living, and care not one whit how his offspring will fare.'' 
   With the shortages in oil, which have driven up the price of gasoline, they want me to vote to drill in ANWR and offshore. I have got 10 kids, 16 grandkids and two great-grandkids, and I ask them, if you can drill in ANWR tomorrow, what would you do the day after tomorrow? And there will be a day after tomorrow. 
   We are leaving our kids a horrendous debt, growing by leaps and bounds. Not with my vote, if you will check the record, but we are leaving them that debt. And I ask those who would like me to vote to drill in ANWR and offshore, wouldn't it be nice if I left my kids and my grand-kids and my great grandkids a little energy to deal with this horrendous debt? 
   The next is a quote also from Hyman Rickover. You can see why I believe this will be shortly recognized as perhaps the most insightful speech given in the last century. ``I suggest this is a good time to think soberly about our responsibility to our descendants.'' Wow, 51 years ago, and there are very few who are thinking soberly at all about this today. 
   ``I suggest this is a good time to think soberly about our responsibilities to our descendants, those who will ring out the fossil fuel age. We must give a break to these youngsters by cutting fuel and metal consumption.'' 
   Wow. 51 years ago. And what we have done since then, with no more responsibility than the kids who found the cookie jar or the hog who found the feed room door open, we just have been pigging out on energy, as if it were forever, as if there was an endless supply. It is obviously finite. The moon isn't made out of green cheese and the Earth isn't made out of oil. I see chairs and trees and grass and sticks and stones out there. Obviously it isn't all oil, and it is not going to last forever. 
   ``So as to provide a safer margin for the necessary adjustments which eventually will be made in a world without fossil fuel.'' 
   A year ago, Christmas-New Year's break, I led a codel of nine to China to talk about energy. They began their discussion of energy by talking about post-oil. In an environment where it is hard for us to see beyond the next quarterly report or the next election, they are looking generations and centuries down the road. There will be a post-oil world. It is not going to be totally post-oil for about another 150 years, but increasingly there is going to be less and less, higher and higher costs, more and more difficult to get. 
   The next chart is just kind of a repeat of the wise advice he has been giving. ``High energy consumption has always been a prerequisite of political power. Ultimately the nation which controls the largest energy resources will become dominant.'' 
   I am going to show a chart a little later that shows that China is buying up energy oil all over the world. They kind of understand that. ``If we act wisely and in time to conserve what we have and prepare well for necessary future changes, we shall ensure this dominant position for our own country.'' 
   I will show a chart in a few moments that shows we have 2 percent of the oil, we use 25 percent of the world's oil, and import almost two-thirds of what we use. We don't even come close to following the wise advice that he gave 51 years ago. 
   Now, four studies, and here they are. The Hirsch Report, February 2005. This is a big study done by SAIC, Science Applications International Corporation, a big prestigious international corporation, paid for by our Department of Energy. 
   Here is a second report paid for by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, paid for by the Army, done by the Corps: ``Energy Trends and Their Implications for U.S. Army Installations.'' It could have been U.S. or world, because our army is a microcosm of the U.S. and world. 
   A second Hirsch Report, ``Peaking of World Oil Production, Recent Forecasts.'' 
   Then the third of these reports, which your government has asked for and paid for, as a matter of fact, this one I asked for as a senior member of the Science Committee, this is done by GAO. ``Crude Oil. Uncertainty About Future Oil Supply Makes It Important To Develop a Strategy for Addressing a Peak and Decline in Oil Production.'' Where have you heard anybody talking about this strategy? Where have you read about this strategy in the newspaper? This is a GAO report, February 2007. 
   The last of the studies. ``Hard Truths. Facing the Hard Truths About Energy. Comprehensive View to 2030 of Global Oil and Natural Gas,'' done by the National Petroleum Council.  
   I have quotes from all but the last of these. This is the newest one, and I will get some quotes to include. They are saying essentially the same thing as these others. 
   The next chart and the first few charts will be quotes from the Hirsch Report. I am going to spend a lot of time this evening going over the information that has been available to all of us, to our leaders, and I am going to keep asking the questions, how come it has been ignored? 
   The Hirsch Report: ``World oil peaking is going to happen. World production of conventional oil will reach a maximum and decline thereafter. That maximum is called the peak. A number of competent forecasters project peaking within a decade.'' This was several years ago. Others contend it will occur later. 
   Prediction of the peaking is extremely difficult. In fact, you only know it has peaked after you look back and say gee, it was the highest back then. No matter what we do, we can't get more. So you will know it has peaked only in retrospect when you look back to see that it has peaked. 
   Oil peaking presents a unique challenge. The world has never faced a problem like this. There is no precedent in history to guide you. There is nothing that has happened in the past which will help you through this. The world has never faced a problem like this. ``Without massive mitigation,'' more than a decade before the fact, the chart you saw a little earlier, remember, EIA, IEA, 3 years, flat plateau, looks like we peaked now. He says ``Without massive mitigation,'' more than a decade before the fact, ``the problem will be pervasive and will not be temporary. Previous energy transitions, wood-to-coal and coal-to-oil were gradual, and evolutionary oil peaking will be abrupt and revolutionary.'' 
   The next chart, additional quotes from this report. ``The peaking of world oil production presents the U.S. and the world with an unprecedented risk-management problem. The world has never faced a problem like this. As peaking is approached, liquid fuel prices and price volatility will increase dramatically,'' $112 a barrel, ``and, without timely mitigation, the economic, social and political costs will be unprecedented. Food riots. People killed.'' 
   Well, we will talk in just a few moments about the relationship between oil and food so that you will see why the crisis in energy is reflected in this crisis in food availability. 
   The next chart is another one from the Hirsch Report. ``We cannot conceive of any affordable government-sponsored crash program to accelerate normal replacement schedules.'' This is going to be a new world. We are going to have to think differently. We are going to have to use energy differently. 
   As far as fossil fuels are concerned, I think the Hirsch Report is exactly right. I am more sanguine about electricity. More nuclear, wind, solar, with appropriate storage for those two because they are intermittent, more hydro, true geothermal. We can in some parts of our country tap the molten core of the Earth, as they do for all of their energy in Iceland. I think we can make reasonably as much electricity as we ought to be using. I am not at all sure that is true about liquid fuels. The substitutes for oil are just few and difficult, as we will see. 
   The next chart is an interesting one from the Hirsch Study. Most of the world's experts believe that we have found about 2 trillion barrels of recoverable oil. There is a lot more out there, but it is locked in tiny little droplets in between grains of sand and shale and so forth, and with present technology we are likely not going to get it. And the cost of ever getting it may exceed its value when you get it, so it is maybe not practically recoverable. 
   Well, there are some people who believe that we are going to find as much more oil as all the reserves that we now know exist. And this is an interesting chart, because instead of talking about roughly 2 trillion barrels, they are talking about 3 trillion barrels of oil. Even if that is true, this is the same curve we saw before, remember, the stutter in the seventies with the worldwide recession, slower growth now, peaking now if we don't find any more. They say if we find as much more oil as all the oil we now know exists which is recoverable, it will extend the peak only to 2016. Wow. That is the power of compound growth. 
   After the discovery of nuclear energy, Albert Einstein was asked, ``Dr. Einstein, what will be the next big energy force in the world?'' He said, ``The most powerful force in the world is the power of compound interest, compound growth.'' Poorly understood. But that is what we are seeing here. 
   So if we found, which we are not going to, a little, vanishing small possibility that we are going to do that, but if we found as much more oil as all the oil which now is known to be recoverable, it would push the peak out only to 2016. And this curve shows what would happen if you use heroic techniques and enhanced oil recovery and get it out of the ground quicker. Then you fall off a cliff. You can't pump what you have not found. 
   The next chart is an interesting chart that shows the projections of our EIA, the Energy Information Administration. I don't have time to go into the strange use of statistics here, but somehow they went from a frequency mode to a probability mode, and they somehow have reached a conclusion that a 50 percent probability is more probable than a 95 percent probability. 
   So they were projecting that this green is where we were going with the discovery of oil. This is the 95 percent probability. This is the 5 percent probability. And, as one would expect, 95 percent is more probable than 50 percent. So the actual discoveries in red here have been following the 95 percent probability. So I would be very suspicious of projections using USGS data, which is where this comes from, of future oil production. 
   The next chart addresses this, and this is Jean Laherrere, one of the world's giants in this area. It says, ``The USGS estimate implies a five-fold increase in discovery and reserve addition, for which no evidence is presented. Such an improvement in performance is in fact utterly implausible, given the great technological achievements of the industry over the past 20 years, the worldwide search, and the deliberate efforts to find the largest remaining prospects.'' 
   I think he is right. I think there is little probability that we are going to find huge amounts of additional oil. As a matter of fact, most of the world's experts believe we have probably found about 95 percent of all that we will ever find. 
   The next chart, and now we have a series of charts we will go through quickly from the Corps of Engineers study, this was the second one done. ``Oil is the most important form of energy in the world today. Historically, no other energy source equals oil's intrinsic qualities of extractability, transportability, versatility and cost.'' 
   It is incredible, the energy density of oil and all the things that you can do with it. We live in a plastic world, a huge petrochemical industry. All of that starts with gas and oil, and some coal. Because once you have this long hydrocarbon chain, whether it is gas or coal or oil, the chemist can do with it about what he wishes.     
   The qualities that enabled oil to take over from coal as the front line energy source for the industrialized world in the middle of the 20th century are as relevant today as they were then. 
   The next chart is a really interesting one. This is a study done by very knowledgeable people. The current price of oil is in the $45 to $57 per barrel range and it's expected to stay in that range for several years. It is $112 a barrel today. 
   They all missed it, friends. M. King Hubbert was right. The United States peaked in 1970. I use 28 years that we have blown. That's because by 1980, 28 years ago, we absolutely knew, looking back that M. King Hubbert was right about 1970. We did peak in 1970. 
   In 1979 he made the prediction the world would be peaking and, let me ask you, if M. King Hubbert was right about the United States and if, in spite of drilling more oil wells than all the rest of the world put together, why should we not be concerned about his prediction that the world would be peaking in oil about now? 
   Don't you think that someone might have said, gee, M. King Hubbert was right about the United States? Isn't the United States a microcosm in the  world? Mightn't he be right about the world and shouldn't we be doing something about that? 
   Oil prices may go significantly higher. They have, indeed, and some have predicted prices ranging up to $180 a barrel in a few years. Goldman Sachs says that oil may very well be $150 to $200 a barrel by the end of this year. 
   The next chart, another one from the Corps of Engineers, petroleum expert Colin Campbell, Jean Laherrere, Bryan Fleay, Roger Blanchard, Richard Duncan, Walter Younquist and Albert Bartlett, no relative of mine, I wish I had some of his genes. He has given his speech on energy, I think, over 1,600 times. 
   Do a Google search for Albert Bartlett and energy. It will be the most 1-hour lecture you have ever listened to. Using various methodologies, all estimated that a peak in conventional oil production will occur in 2005. It's 2008, I think it probably has occurred. 
   The corporate executive officers of these several companies also published estimates of a peak in 2005. The next chart from the GAO, and now I move to the third of the GAO studies, this shows this large number of experts, of sources, and when they thought peak would occur. Now, some of them are pretty indecisive. 
   It could be now, it could be a long, long time from now. But notice that a great many of them thought they would be occurring about now. There is a general consensus, and this was published 2, 3 years ago, general consensus, that peaking would be occurring about now. 
   Another chart from GAO, and this kind of puts things in perspective, the little bar on the right shows the top 10 oil and gas companies on the basis of oil reserves. Who has the oil, and 98 percent of that is resident in countries where the oil is owned by the country. Luke Oil, which is kind of not owned by the government, represents only 2 percent. 
   The left, and this is the top 10 oil and gas companies on the basis of production. This is how much they have, this is how much they produced. The giants that you read about every day making $40 billion a year profits, and, by the way, it's not their fault. It's not because they are gouging you. It's not because they are schemers. It's simply they are simply happy recipients of a windfall that results when you want to use more oil than there is, and that drives the prices up. 
   I wouldn't be critical of the profits. I would really be critical if they didn't use the profits properly. 
   Our giants, ExxonMobil, Royal Dutch, BP, produce only 22 percent of the world's oil and 78 percent of the world's oil is produced by these country-owned companies. 
   The next chart shows essentially the same thing in another form. Here we see the OPEC oils, Saudi Arabia and OPEC and the remainder. 
   The next chart, now, I like this one because if a picture is worth 1,000 words, this is worth a few thousand words. This shows you the same thing as those last couple of charts. 
   But, boy, is this dramatic. This shows you what the world would look like if the size of the country was relative to how much oil it had. Look at Saudi Arabia. It dominates the landscape and, indeed, in the oil world, it dominates the landscape. It has 22 percent of all the known reserves of oil in the world. 
   Little Kuwait, Saddam Hussein thought it looked like a little corner province in Iraq. Iran, first, second, third, fourth, northern Africa, our neighbor to the south, Venezuela, Hugo Chavez, dwarfs us, what, three, four, five times as much oil? 
   Here we are, the United States, using a fourth of all the oil in the world, and we have 2 percent of the known reserves of oil in the world. The two countries from which we get our most oil, that changed a couple of days ago. By the way, it used to be Canada and then Mexico. I think it's Canada, Saudi Arabia and then Mexico now. That has because the second largest oil field in the world, the Cantarell oil field in Mexico, is in rapid decline, so they cannot produce at the rates they produced before. 
   Kind of keep this map in your mind. Look at China and India over there. Here they are. Look at Russia, huge compared to China and India. China and India together have no more oil than we, and they have, what, a third of the world's population, rapidly-growing demand for oil. In some parts of Beijing, bicycles are now banned. There isn't room for them on the roads because there are so many automobiles there. 
   The next chart simply shows some numbers that I have been using. Two percent of the world's reserves consume 25 percent of the world's oil, import almost two-thirds of what we use. Less than 5 percent of the world's population, one person in 22, produce 8 percent of the world's oil from only 2 percent. 
   What that means is we are pumping our wells four times faster than the average, right. So we now have only 2 percent of the reserves. We are pumping on down really fast, we are really good at that. We have more oil wells that I mentioned than all the rest of the world put together. 
   The next chart is a really interesting one. This shows what China has been doing. They are going around the world. You see the big symbols there for China going around the world and buying oil. They almost bought Unocal in our country. They are buying oil everywhere. In today's economy that doesn't make much sense because whoever has the dollars gets the oil. So why are they buying oil? 
   At the same time they are buying oil, they are also aggressively building the largest blue-water Navy in the world. Might the time come that the Chinese tell us, gee, I am sorry, the oil is ours? We have 1.3 billion people. They have got to have oil. I'm sorry, we can't share it. If they are going to make that a reality, they have to have a Navy big enough to control the world's shipping lanes. 
   Talking about geopolitical consequences, a statement by our Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice, ``We do have to do something about the energy problem.'' Boy, this was 2006, 2 years ago. What have we done about the energy problem in the last 2 years? We do have to do something about the energy problem. 
   I can tell that you nothing has really taken me aback more than the Secretary of State about the way of the politics of energy. I will use the word ``warping'' diplomacy around the world. We have simply got to do something about the warping now of diplomatic effort for the all-out rush for energy supply. 
   She recognized that 2 years ago this month. What have you seen your country doing about that in the last 2 years? Why this gross denial? I think the evidence is clear to a third grader. 
   The next chart, a very recent one, January 22 of this year, ``By the year 2100, the world's energy system will be radically different from today. The world's current predicament limits our maneuvering room. We are experiencing a step change in the rate of growth energy demand.'' 
   Shell estimates that after 2015 easy-to-supply that easy access to oil and gas will no longer be able to keep up with demand. It may be sooner that than that, but that is not very far away. As a result, society has no choice but to add other sources of energy. 
   We have only a few minutes remaining. Let's put the next the chart up. This chart addresses some of those other sources of energy. 
   I will tell you that we are very much like the young people whose grandparents have died and left them a big inheritance. They now have established a lavish lifestyle where 85 percent of all the money they spend comes from their grandparents' inheritance, and only 15 percent of that money are they earning. And they look at how old they are, and the size of the inheritance, and it's going to run out long before they retire. 
   Obviously, they have got to do something. They either have to earn more or spend less. That's precisely where we are with energy. Eighty-five percent of the energy that we are using, coal, petroleum and natural gas, comes from fossil fuels, the grandparents' inheritance. It's finite, it will run out. 
   Only 15 percent of that is from other sources, generally referred to as renewable sources. A bit more than half of that comes from nuclear. We produce 8 percent of our total energy from nuclear, that's 20 percent of our electricity. 
   We have the largest nuclear electricity production in the world, but not  the biggest percentage. France produces about 75, 80 percent of their electricity from nuclear. 
   Then the 7 percent, now this is 2000, things have changed a little since then. Solar, 1 percent; wind, 1 percent, that's the .07 percent, so it has increased four-fold, 2.8 percent, big deal, .28 percent, 1/4 of 1 percent? I am a big fan of nuclear. 
   I have an off-grid home, and I use solar panels, I use wind machines. I am a big fan of wind and solar. But they are now tiny contributors to our total energy supply. 
   Wood, that's not the mountain family, that's the paper industry and the timber industry wisely using a waste product. Waste, that looks huge, and it's not a bad idea to turn your waste into electricity. You can do that. We have a great plant up here in northern Montgomery County. 
   But that waste stream is not a solution to our problem, because what that waste stream represents, just go to the county dump and look at it. What that waste stream represents is a profligate use of fossil fuels. In a fossil fuel deficient world it's not going to be there. It's an expedient for the moment. It doesn't even come close to offering a rational solution to our problem. 
   Conventional hydro, we probably peaked out in conventional hydro. We can do a lot of microhydro. There are some really good microturbines now. 
   Alcohol, let me come back now, I only have a couple of minutes remaining. I want to make the tie between our food problems and the gas prices. 
   We have a program of converting corn to ethanol. The National Academy of Sciences have said that if we used all of our corn for ethanol, all of it, and discounted for fossil fuel input, it would displace 2.4 percent of our gasoline. They said that if you tuned up your car and put air in the tires, you would save as much. 
   Now, corn doubled in price because we were doing that. Farmers diverted land from soybeans and wheat to corn. So now we have doubled the price of corn, roughly doubled the price of soybeans. Since these commodities moved together, the price of rice has doubled. 
   Now we have global food riots turned deadly. What one U.N. official said was what we did innocently, we just hadn't thought it through, that what we did was a crime against humanity. 
   Our trifling contribution to displacing oil has doubled the price of corn, nearly doubled the price of soybeans and rice. There are people who spend 50 to 60 percent of their income on food. If the food price doubles, they are spending 100 percent of their income on food. No wonder they are rioting. 
   Well, this was an unintended consequence. The last chart, we have only a couple of minutes remaining, and I just want to say that I find this challenge really exhilarating. There is no exhilaration like the exhilaration of meeting and overcoming a big challenge. 
   We are the most creative innovative society in the world. We are up to this with proper leadership. I am looking for that leadership. We are up to this. 
   We need a program that has a total commitment of World War II. I lived through that war. I know what it was. Everybody raised a victory garden. No cars were made in 1943, 1944 and 1945. We needed the technology focus of putting a man on the moon, and we needed the urgency of the Manhattan project.     
   We can lead the world in moving from fossil fuel dependency to renewables. We are creative and innovative. We need leadership to do this. 
   I want to show you that we can do it. We can live very happily on less. On this chart, here we are, using more energy than anybody else in the world. And there are 24 countries using considerably less energy than we who feel better. This is how good you feel about your station in life, they feel better about their station in life than we. 
   The very last chart, in the very few seconds remaining, this shows you that Californians use only about 65 percent as much electricity as the rest of us in the United States. Challenge any Californian to admit that they live less well than we live. 
   We don't have to use the amounts of energy that we are using today to be comfortable, to feel good about life. 
   I really feel challenged by this. We are the most creative, innovative society in the world. We can do this. We can once again become a manufacturing country. We can lead the world in this. 
   Madam Speaker, I am 82 years old on my next birthday; and there is nothing in my life, and I have seen more of life than every other Member of this Congress except Ralph Hall who is 3 years older than I, and I have seen nothing in my life that is so challenging, so exhilarating as this. 
   We are up to this. We need the leadership; where is it? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (THE IRANIAN THREAT -- (House of Representatives - July 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Madam Speaker, there was a very interesting editorial in the Wall Street Journal today. Let me read a bit from it. Talk about timing. It is, perhaps, fortuitous. 
   ``On Tuesday, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice was in Prague, signing an agreement that's a first step toward protecting Europe from ballistic missile attack. As if on cue, Tehran, yesterday, tested nine missiles, including several capable of reaching southern Europe as well as Israel and U.S. troops stationed in the Middle East. Remind us. Who says Iran isn't a threat?'' 
   Yesterday's test offered no big surprises about Iran's missile technology, but they are a useful reminder of just how real the Iranian threat is and how rapidly it is growing. One of the missiles tested was the latest update, the Shahab-3, which has a range of about 1,250 miles. Replace the payload with a lighter one, say, a nuclear warhead, and the range gains 1,000 miles.     
   Add a booster, and the range can be extended even farther. North Korea did just that with its Taepodong-2 missile. 
   Technology that is passed along to Iran. U.S. intelligence estimates that Iran will have a ballistic missile capable of reaching New York or Washington by about 2015. But Iran may already have the capability to target the U.S. with a short-range missile by launching it from a freighter off the east coast. A few years ago, it was observed practicing the launch of Scuds from a barge in the Caspian Sea. 
   This would be especially troubling if Tehran is developing EMP, electromagnetic pulse technology. A nuclear weapon detonated 100 miles over U.S. territory would create an electromagnetic pulse that would virtually shut down the U.S. economy by destroying electronic circuits on the ground. William Graham, head of a congressional commission to assess the EMP threat, testifies before the House Armed Services Committee this morning. We hope someone asks him about that. 
   I attended that hearing. And he was asked about that. 
   Let me give you a few quotes from his testimony this morning. 
   ``Several potential adversaries of the capability to attack the United States with a high altitude nuclear weapon generated electromagnetic pulse, and others appear to be pursuing efforts to obtain that capability. A determined adversary,'' he says, ``can achieve an EMP attack capability without having a high level of sophistication. For example, an adversary would not have to have long-range ballistic missiles to conduct an EMP attack against the United States. Such an attack could be launched from a freighter off the U.S. coast using a short- or medium-range missile to loft a nuclear warhead to high altitude. 
   ``Terrorists sponsored by a rogue state could attempt to execute such an attack without revealing the identity of the perpetrators. 
   ``Iran, the world's leading sponsor of international terrorism, has practiced launching a mobile ballistic missile from a vessel in the Caspian Sea. Iran,'' he says, ``has also tested high altitude explosives of the Shahab-3, a test mode consistent with EMP attack, and Iran described the test as being `successful.' Iranian military writings explicitly discuss a nuclear EMP attack that would gravely harm the United States. 
   ``While the Commission,'' he says, ``does not know the intention of Iran in conducting these activities, we are disturbed by the capability that emerges when we connect the dots.'' 
   Dr. Graham was the principal author of a report produced by the Commission to assess the threat to the United States from electromagnetic pulse attack. 
   And let me read a single statement from the introduction to this study. ``The electromagnetic pulse generated by a high altitude nuclear explosion is one of a small number of threats that can hold our society at risk of catastrophic consequences.'' 
   And a little later we'll have a chance to note what those catastrophic consequences are. 
   Here is a report, the CRS report for Congress. ``High Altitude Electromagnetic Pulse, HEMP, and High Power Microwave, HPM, devices threat assessments.'' And they discuss also this electromagnetic pulse. 
   The first chart shows us a quote from one of our now Senators that I had the privilege of serving with on the Armed Services Committee in the Congress before he went to the Senate, John Kyl. He says, ``Last week the Senate Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Terrorism, Technology and Homeland Security, which I chair,'' he says,  ``held a hearing on a major threat to the United States, not only from terrorists but from rogue nations like North Korea,'' and he might have added Iran. 
   ``An electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack ..... is one of only a few ways America could essentially be defeated by our enemies, terrorists or otherwise ..... Few if any people would die right away. But the long-term loss of electricity would essentially bring our society to a halt ..... few can conceive of the possibility that terrorists could bring American society to its knees by knocking out our power supply from several miles in the atmosphere. But this time we've been warned, and we better be prepared to respond.'' 
   The next chart is a quote from Major Franz Gayl, ``The impact of EMP is asymmetric in relation to our adversaries. The less-developed societies of North Korea, Iran and other potential EMP attack perpetrators are less electronically dependent and less specialized while more capable of continued functionality in the absence of modern conveniences.'' 
   What they're saying is that if this EMP attack was made in one of these countries, that they would not be hurt anywhere near as much as we because they have a much less sophisticated infrastructure. 
   ``Conversely, the United States would be subject to widespread paralysis and doubtful recovery,'' doubtful recovery, ``following a surprise EMP attack. Therefore, terrorists and their coincidentally allied state sponsors may determine that given just a few nuclear weapons and delivery vehicles the subjection of the United States to a potentially non-attributable EMP attack is more desirable than the destruction of selected cities. Delayed mass lethality is assured over time through the cascade of EMP's indirect effects that would bring our highly specialized and urbanized society to a disorderly halt.'' 
   What is this EMP that these several reports and articles have been talking about? 
   The next chart, and this comes from the U.S. Defense Nuclear Agency, and this shows how an EMP is produced. Our first exposure to this was way back in the early 1960s, 1961, I believe, over Johnston Island in a test, and then we were testing nuclear weapons in a test called Starfish. I think that was one in the series of the Fishbowl tests. And this test was the first one that we had conducted above the atmosphere. All of the other tests had been on a tower or underground. This one was above the atmosphere. 
   And we had some very surprising results from that. It was about, I think, 800 miles away from Hawaii and almost instantaneously, there were effects, electronic and electrical effects, in Hawaii from this extra atmospheric detonation of a nuclear weapon. 
   This chart shows what happens when the nuclear weapon explodes. There are some gamma rays that come out. They produce Compton electrons. And these Compton electrons then flow at the speed of light, line of sight, and if the weapon is, say, 300 miles high above the United States, that would cover all of the United States. 
   This EMP wave is like a lightning strike, although different than lightning. Or a static electricity. A really strong static electricity everywhere all at once. It's just hard to conceive of something like this, that there would be a simultaneous over all of the United States lightning strike, although not quite like lightning, that would destroy, if it were strong enough, all of the electronic devices in our country. 
   The features in EMP from a high altitude burst they say is wide-area coverage, high-field strengths, and they note here 50 kilovolts per meter. A little later we will talk about what the EMP Commission learned from a couple of Russians, Soviet generals who are now Russian generals, who said that the Soviets had developed 200-kilovolts-per-meter weapons. We will discuss a little later what that means. 
   Broad frequency band of a very broad range or frequency from D.C. to 100 MHz. ``Absence of most other nuclear weapons effects.'' There isn't any fallout because there is nothing to fall out. Fallout is produced when a weapon is detonated at the surface or near the surface and it blows a lot of radioactivity up in the air. In this case, there isn't any material blown up in the air so there really isn't any conventional fallout. 
   The next chart shows us the range, what would be covered by a weapon detonated at various altitudes. And this is looking at the center of our country near Iowa and Nebraska. And the surface, little red dot here in the middle, if it's detonated on the surface, very small area is impacted. If it is 60 miles up, you'd get a broader area; 200 miles up, you get a still broader area. And if you go 300 miles up, it covers all of the United States, the tip of Maine and Florida and the State of Washington. 
   The next chart shows, again, the coverage of an EMP, and this one shows how the intensity of the field degrades with distance. And there is this so-called ``smile effect'' from it. And the color coding over there shows the degradation of the intensity. It starts out with red in the middle, which is 100 percent, and then we get to the purple out here, and that's 50 percent. And you see that the degradation is cut into about half by the time you reach the margins of our country. 
   That's important when we look at the next chart because the next chart redacted the names of the Soviet generals, and now Russian generals is now redacted. The Commission--this is from the EMP Commission report. 
   ``The Commission met with Russian Generals `blank' and `blank' who claimed: Russia designed a `Super-EMP' nuclear weapon capable of generating 200 kilovolts per meter. Russian, Chinese and Pakistani scientists are working in North Korea and could enable that country to develop an EMP weapon in the near future.'' 
   And one needs to note the close working relationship between North Korea and Iran. 
   The next chart further looks at this threat. And this again is from the EMP Commission, a Commission set up 4 years ago by legislation that I initiated. They have been working for 4 years now, and we are planning this year to extend their life another 4 years because it is absolutely essential, as you will see as we go on with the discussion, that both our military and our national infrastructure be aware of this threat and do reasonable things to protect our military and our country against this threat. 
   ``EMP is one of a small number of threats that may,'' they say, ``hold at risk the continued existence of today's U.S. civil society.'' That is quite a statement. What that means is that EMP is one of a small number of threats that may end life as we know it. It could ``disrupt our military forces and our ability to project military power. 
   ``The number of U.S. adversaries capable of EMP attack is greater than during the Cold War.'' Then there was only one adversary. Today there are potentially many who have nuclear weapons or could acquire nuclear weapons and missiles and even short-range missiles, as was pointed out, that could be launched from a tramp steamer off our coast.     
   Potential adversaries are aware of the EMP's strategic attack option. My wife raised this question: Should you really be talking about this because you are giving these people ideas? And I assured her that every one of our potential enemies has in their open literature detailed discussions of an EMP attack and how it could be used and how they would use it. 
   A little later I'm going to show you a chart which is in Russian writing, and we can show you from the open literature of any of these countries that might launch an attack against us, in their open literature they know. Ninety-eight percent of the people in our country may know nothing about EMP and what it could do to us, but I will assure you that 100 percent of our potential enemies know all about EMP and what it could do. 
   The threat is not adequately addressed in U.S. national and homeland security programs. Dr. Graham is a scientist, and scientists frequently are capable of understatement. This is a gross understatement. The threat is not adequately addressed. The threat is not addressed. 
   You know, some things are too good to be true, and usually if something is too good to be true, it's not true. This thing is so bad, the potential is so  enormous, that some people think, gee, that's just too bad to be true, so it can't be true, like that's too good to be true so it can't be true, but I'm afraid this is true. 
   The next chart, and I'm really pleased at the quality of the nine members of this commission. These are top people with many, many years of experience. When I was just finishing my first two years of teaching medical school, 56 years ago now, Dr. Johnny Foster was designing nuclear weapons for our country, and he was the director of LLNL and the director of DDR&E. 
   Mr. Earl Gjelde, chief engineer and acting director, Bonneville Power Administration, very knowledgeable in our grid and its vulnerabilities. 
   Dr. Bill Graham, who was the chairman, he's had a long, long experience, has been appointed by a couple of different administrations. He was a science advisor, for instance, to President Reagan. He was Rumsfeld's deputy in their very important study on the emerging threat of ballistic missiles. 
   Dr. Robert Hermann, director of NRO. NRO is very interesting. Of course, just a moment to talk about NRO, National Reconnaissance Organization. Until just a few years ago even that name was secret, and they spend probably more money than almost any other agency in our country. There were several billion dollars that they couldn't account for, and we finally decided, gee, for what they do, that's small change, and we won't worry about that. You see, the NRO is the organization that buys and launches all of our incredibly expensive spy satellites, and he was the director of NRO; principal deputy assistant secretary to the Air Force; senior vice president, United Technologies. 
   Hank Kleupfel, advisor to the President's NSTAC; vice president of the very prestigious International Science Applications International Corporation. 
   General Lawson, a four star general, with a lot of experience. 
   Gordon Soper, who has a lifetime of experience, is director of the Nuclear Forces C3, the chief scientist at DCA. 
   And one of my favorites is Dr. Lowell Wood, director's staff, LLNL; technical advisor, SSCI and the House committee, the committee on which I serve. 
   When I first became interested in EMP, I called Tom Clancy, whom I know, and I knew that he had an EMP sequence in one of his books. And so I knew he knew something about it. And so I called to ask him about it. He said, well, if you read my book you know all I know about it because I put it all in the book. But he referred me to the person who he said was the smartest person hired by the U.S. government. That's a tall order because we hire a lot of people, but this Dr. Lowell Wood, he said, is the smartest person hired by the U.S. government. 
   And then Dr. John Woodard, who is executive vice president and deputy director of Sandia National Labs. That's an interesting one because I went out to visit the last of our 10 children who has a Ph.D. in computers working at the Sandia National Labs, and he brought home from work some little things that they had sent him that led me to believe there might be some expertise in Sandia National Labs that would be of use in our evaluations of this EMP threat. 
   So I asked him to inquire about that, and the next day I was over there I think for four or five hours for a classified briefing. Well, I didn't know when I went there that Dr. John Woodard, who is the executive vice president, was one of the nine members of this commission. So that was a very, very fortuitous trip. 
   I just wanted to note how impressive this group of people are. 
   Potential adversaries know about EMP. I wanted to spend just a moment on this because I don't want anybody to believe that we're somehow letting the cat out of the bag here in telling people what they don't know, and this is from the EMP Commission itself. 
   ``Hypothetically, if Russia really wanted to hurt the United States''--oh, let me tell you about this. I was there and I think there were about nine of us, a codel, and we were in Vienna, Austria, with three members of the Russian Duma, Vladimir Lukin, who was ambassador here at the end of Bush I, and the beginning of the Clinton administration; the third ranking Communist, a tall, handsome blonde, Alexander Shabonof; and a bright, rising star in one of their parties there, Vladimir Rushkoff. 
   And we were there in Vienna with a personal representative of Slobodan Milosevic, and Slobodan Milosevic had the three captives, remember, and he wanted rid of them. And his personal representative there said, you understand how important it is for him to get rid of those three people, because if any harm comes to them while they're under his control, that's going to be bad news for him. 
   Jesse Jackson was there, and they really did not want to release them to Jesse Jackson. They wanted to release them to us. The head of our codel had promised that he wouldn't go there. I had not promised I wouldn't go, and so I volunteered to go. Other members of our codel said, gee, I wonder if we really ought to go, and maybe there will be several additional captives there if we go. 
   I assured them that if the Russians went with us--and by the way, the Russians joined the G-7 to become the G-8, and 6 days later, the framework agreement which we negotiated there was approved by the G-8. The only large country in whom the Serbs had confidence was Russia, and Russia told us, whatever we agree to in these negotiations, the Serbs will agree to. 
   Well, Vladimir Lukin sat in this hotel room in Vienna, Austria, for a couple of days during these talks, with his arms folded across his chest. He was very angry. He was looking at the ceiling. He said, you spit on us; now, why should we help you? And he made that statement because the United States had kind of said, you know, then oil wasn't $140 a barrel and Russia was very poor and their military was in decay, and we essentially told them, you know, we're the big boy, we'll take care of this, we don't need you. 
   And so Vladimir Lukin was kind of smarting under that, and he said, You spit on us; now, why should we help you? And then he made this statement. He said, If we really wanted to hurt you, with no fear of retaliation, we'd launch an SLBM, submarine launch missile. We wouldn't know where it came from; it came from the sea. And we'd detonate a nuclear weapon high above your country, and it would shut down your power grid and your communications for 6 months or so. 
   Alexander Shabonof, the third ranking Communist who was there, smiled and said, And if one weapon wouldn't do it, we have some spares, like about 10,000 is how many spares they had. 
   So I was there when they made that statement. The Chinese military writings describe EMP as the key to victory and describes scenarios where EMP is used against U.S. aircraft carriers in a conflict over Taiwan. They read all statements from the EMP Commission. 
   A survey of worldwide military and scientific literature sponsored by the Commission found widespread knowledge about EMP and its potential military utility, including in Taiwan, Israel, Egypt, India, Pakistan, Iran and North Korea. 
   As I said earlier, maybe 98 percent of our people don't know much, if anything, about EMP, but I can assure you that 100 percent of our potential adversaries know everything about EMP. 
   Terrorist information warfare includes using the technology of directed energy weapons or electromagnetic pulse. This is from the Iranian Journal, March of 2001. 
   Iran has tested launching a Scud missile from a surface vessel, a launch mode that could support a national or transnational terrorist EMP attack against the United States. 
   And the next chart shows a continuation of these statements to assure us that when we talk about EMP and the fact that we are vulnerable and we really need to do something about that that we're not letting the cat out of the bag. 
   This is from an Iranian Journal, December of 1998. ``If the world's industrial countries fail to devise effective ways to defend themselves against dangerous electronic assaults, then they will disintegrate within a few years. 150,000 computers [belong] to the U.S. Army. If the enemy forces succeeded in infiltrating the information network of the U.S. Army, then the whole organization would collapse, and the American soldiers could not find food to eat  nor would they be able to fire a single shot.'' 
   This, by the way, is one of the other--when the report said there were just a few weapons that could bring us to our knees and end life as we know it, a really aggressive cyber attack that brought down all of our computers--and our computers control everything. They control your power grid. They control your communication. That is what they're talking about here. 
   ``Terrorist information warfare [includes] using the technology of directed energy weapons or electromagnetic pulse.'' This is the Iranian Journal. 
   Terrorists have attempted to acquire non-nuclear radio frequency weapons. 
   What we're talking about specifically today and what our hearing was about and what the editorial in The Wall Street Journal was about was nuclear-produced electromagnetic pulse. We can produce here on Earth a very focused, targeted EMP. It is conceivable, for instance, that you can mount one of those in a van and go down Wall Street and shut down all the computers in the buildings right next to you. That is a very local thing. It would be hurtful, but we could recover from that. 
   The next chart really is an interesting one. To convince you that our potential enemies really do know about this, this is from a Russian journal, and there it is in Russian and it's obviously EMP. You can see the detonation of the weapon. You can see the sparks here in the power grid. You can see the resisters here, the fuses probably, they're all exploding. 
   The next chart shows an American translation of what the Russians were saying in this chart, and you will notice the same two figures here. 
   Electromagnetic fields arise from nuclear explosions which produce impulsive electrical currents and stress in aerial and ground conductors and cables--this is a direct translation, and it's sometimes hard to translate into smooth English words in another language--and in radio station antennas. Radio waves are also produced which propagate to large distances. And boy, they do propagate to large distances. 
   Electromagnetic fields and currents in the atmosphere arise as the result of the formation near the explosion of a shining region and a large region of ionized atmosphere produced by penetration radiation. 
   This is our translation of their description of the nuclear detonation and the production of these alpha particles and these Compton electrons. 
   Source, currents and stresses exhibit transient impulse with characteristics close to the impulse caused by lightning discharges. Its duration is a few milliseconds. 
   Well, some of the pulses, as a matter of fact, last a couple of minutes. There are some very long wavelengths in this that will couple with railroad tracks, for instance. There's some very, very short wavelengths which will couple with the tiniest fields in a chip. 
   For ground and aerial explosions, at a radius of a few kilometers from the center of the explosion, overstress between conducting aerial lines or electrical supplies and grounds reach tens and hundreds of thousands of volts.     
   While between the arteries of underground cables--ah, that's another thing, burying your cables won't protect you. Some of these long wavelengths reach underground and couple with the cables underground. So essentially everything is taken down. The one thing that is immune to it is fiberoptics. But unless you're using optical switching, it will do no good to use fiberoptics because the EMP will take out the switching. So if you have optical switching and fiberoptics, then you're immune to it. 
   But we can make all of our systems immune to it. It costs some money. Our fighter planes are all immune to it. The President's Air Force One is EMP hardened. We have a few satellites up there that are EMP hardened. But about 95 percent of all of our military communications go over commercial satellites. And the satellites are the weakest link in the chain because it is very expensive to put stuff in space; it costs $5,000, $10,000 a pound. And hardening increases weight as well as expense. And so nothing of our civilian infrastructure, space infrastructure is hardened. 
   A single detonation 300 miles high above our country would take out all low Earth orbit satellites that are a line of sight. The prompt effects take that out. And then the Van Allen belts are pumped up, and the other satellites will all be dead in a few days to a week or two. And it would do you no good to launch other satellites even if you could because the Van Allen belts will stay pumped up for a year or so. 
   Of course this effects everybody. This is the strike that comes back to bite you. And so your enemy would have to be prepared that they would also have no satellites because a single weapon would take out all of the Earth's low orbit satellites; no more GPS, for instance. 
   The next chart is a look at why EMP? Why would an adversary use electromagnetic pulse? States or terrorists may well calculate that using a nuclear weapon for EMP attacks offers the greatest utility. EMP offers a bigger bang for the buck against the U.S. military forces in a regional conflict or a means of damaging the U.S. homeland. 
   There is no way that a nuclear weapon could be used at ground level that would produce anywhere near the effects that are produced by a nuclear weapon detonated in space, producing this EMP pulse. 
   EMP may be less provocative of U.S. massive retaliation compared to a nuclear attack in a U.S. city that inflicts many prompt casualties. 
   If there was an EMP attack on our country, all that it has done is to take out all of our computers, which means we have no power grid, we have no communications. How do you respond to that? Are we now justified in vaporizing the grandmothers and babies in the country from which it was launched? By the way, unless it's launched by Russia, which has thousands of missiles, or by China in the future, I don't think we will know who launched it because I don't think that any nation will launch against us from their soil because our satellites would detect the launch and we would know where it came from. And why should they? They're a long way off. Our shores are close to the oceans, and there are thousands of ships in the north Atlantic shipping lanes. It is impossible to keep track of those ships. It would be very easy to--and their literature talks about this--using a short range or a medium range missile, to launch from a ship. 
   There is a very interesting story--I hope that it is published, I was given a prepublication copy of it--called ``One Second After.'' And it's a story of what happens in our country with an EMP attack. It's a very well written story. It's in the hills of North Carolina. And there is a retired colonel who is there teaching in a university there. And on his child's 12th birthday, I think it was, they're having the birthday party and the lights go out. And he notices in a few minutes that there is no noise from the interstate, which is just over the hill. And he walks over to where he can look down on the interstate and he sees that all the cars are parked on the interstate and people are walking around the cars. 
   The story runs for a year. And at the end of the year--and I asked the members of the commission, they said, well, it might not be quite that bad, but at the end of the year in this story called One Second After there are only 25,000 people still alive in New York City, 90 percent of the country's population is dead, only 80 percent of the population in the area in which the story is set in North Carolina is dead. I said that for many people this is just too bad to be true, and so they don't even want to think about it. 
   During the Clinton administration he had a commission to set up, headed by General Marsh, to look at critical infrastructure. And they came to testify before our Armed Services Committee and we asked them, did you look at EMP? He said yes, we looked at EMP. Well? Well, we decided there was not a high probability of an EMP attack, so we didn't look at it anymore. I said, well, gee, with that attitude, if you haven't already, when you go home tonight you're going to cancel your fire insurance. I mean, that's why we have insurance, when there is a low probability, high-impact event. And I know of nobody at the end of the year, I've never heard anybody come and complain, gee, you know, I bought that fire insurance and my house didn't burn. 
   All that I want my country to do is to make the kind of an investment  that represents the equivalent of buying fire insurance on your house. Now, I have fire insurance on my house, I wouldn't sleep well tonight if I didn't, but I haven't hired somebody to stand there and to yell ``fire, fire,'' when he sees a fire. I'm content with my smoke alarms and so forth. But I've done what I think is a reasonable thing. But as the EMP Commission pointed out, our country has not done what would appear to be a reasonable thing in preparing for this eventuality, neither in the military nor in the private sector. 
   And these two studies that I referred to, the one by CRS, the Congressional Research Service, and the other by this commission, both of them paint the same picture, that an EMP attack on our country would be catastrophic. 
   Now, there is something that we can do about that. And the Commission ends with a number of recommendations. 
   What would we do if there was an EMP attack on us? Not a building is hurt, you are not hurt--for the moment. Although, if it was really this 200 kilovolt per meter weapon--and we have not tested anything more than a fourth of that, about 50 kilovolts per meter--if it really was that weapon, the members of the commission are fairly confident that everything comes down, which means that you're in a world where the only person you can talk to is the person next to you, unless, by the way, you happen to be a ham operator with a vacuum tube set because vacuum tubes are a million times less susceptible to EMP. 
   I remember a number of years ago a Soviet MiG pilot defected to Japan, and you may remember that. And we were disdainful of the Russians because their planes still had vacuum tubes; they're a million times less susceptible to EMP. And the only way you could go anywhere after this really robust EMP laydown is to walk, unless you happen to have an old car that has coil and distributor. These are really tough; they almost certainly would be immune to this. 
   EMP could compare to a nuclear attack on a city, kill many more Americans in the long run--nobody immediately--and we die in the long run because we do not have any electricity, we do not have any transportation. The average city has 3 days supply of food. And go to any of our major cities and have the lights go out for a few hours and you will see how thin the veneer of civilization is. 
   EMP could, compared to a nuclear attack on a city, kill many more Americans in the long run from indirect effects of collapsed infrastructure, power, communications, transportation, food and water. City water is not flowing, the septic system is not working. 
   What do you do? There are a number of recommendations--we'll look at a few of those in a few moments--that they make. But the commission is convinced that, with reasonable expenditure, we can do something meaningful to protect ourselves against this. And by the way, our very vulnerability invites this attack. They know how vulnerable we are, it's in their public writings. They know that. 
   Strategically and politically, an EMP attack can threaten entire regional or national infrastructures that are vital to U.S. military strength and societal survival--vital to survival, they're making the point--challenge the integrity of allied regional coalitions and pose an asymmetrical threat more dangerous to the high-tech West than to rogue states. 
   To a state without our sophisticated infrastructure, losing electricity wouldn't matter much. There are many countries in the world that have a few hours of electricity in the morning and a few hours of electricity in the evening, that may have only water at certain hours of the day. And when they do that, they plan to store that water so that they will have enough for the rest of the day. So cultures like that would be nowhere near as much affected by an EMP attack as we would. 
   Technically, an operational EMP attack can compensate for deficiencies in missile accuracy--if you miss by 100 miles, it doesn't matter; it really doesn't matter if you miss by 100 miles--fusing range, reentry vehicle design, target location intelligence, and missile defense penetration. It really doesn't matter. None of these things matter. You just shoot a weapon. If a scud launcher goes up about 180 miles, that's plenty high to shut down the whole northeast and well down the mid coast. And it really doesn't matter if you miss where you would like it to detonate by 100 miles, it really doesn't make any difference. 
   The next chart shows the kind of technology we used to have during the Cold War. This is a trestle on which we have a large airplane. And we are doing simulated EMP attacks on that airplane to make sure that we have hardened the airplane. That's all mothball now, we aren't doing that anymore. By the way, it was impossible to really simulate an EMP attack because of the long line effect. There isn't any way, with this EMP burst created here on Earth, that we could cover an area miles long. And railroad tracks, power lines, any of these things are antennas. And there are some very long wavelengths here that, coupled with very strong structures like miles of power lines or miles of railroad tracks, and you really can't simulate the line effect. But we've done as good as we can do. And after hardening, we would test the planes to make sure that we had hardened them. 
   The next chart is one that is from this study of the EMP Commission. They started out looking at the military, but since all of our military bases are surrounded by towns and cities and suburbs and so forth, and since none of our military bases are stand-alone, as far as how power is concerned, they have some UPS units, some units that will produce temporary power, but few of them will last more than 48 hours and then their tank of fuel has run out and the generators stop working. 
   And so they started looking at the interface between the military and the civilian infrastructure, and they became very, very concerned about how interrelated and how fragile our national infrastructure was. It has grown to accommodate the growth of our population and our increased demands for energy, and it is not designed as an integrated system as it would be if you didn't have any of this and you started from scratch and put the whole thing in; it's kind of added on to and added on to. And so they have this little chart which shows, like a house of cards, the interrelationships between oil and gas and communications and water and banking and finance and government services and emergency services and transportation and electrical power and fuel. Look at the lines that run there, they all run from electrical power. If you don't have electrical power in our world, you don't have anything. Very few things operate without electrical power. So they were very concerned about the vulnerability of our national infrastructure. 
   One of a very few high-altitude nuclear detonations can produce EMPs simultaneously over wide geographical areas. Just one will do, as the previous chart showed, if you detonate it about 300 miles high over Iowa or Nebraska. Unprecedented cascading failure of our electronics-dependent infrastructure could result. As a matter of fact, if one of these super EMP-enhanced bombs is used, you will change that word to ``would'' result because there is no question but that that would bring down our whole infrastructure.     
   Power, energy, transport, telecommunications, and financial systems are particularly vulnerable and interdependent, and they would all come down. EMP disruption of these sectors could cause large-scale infrastructure failures for all aspects of the Nation's life. 
   Again, I say you would essentially, if this biggest weapon was used that produces 200 kilovolts per weapon, you would be in a world where largely the only person you could talk to is the person next to you unless you had that ham radio with a vacuum tube in it, and the only way you could go anywhere is to walk unless you happened to have a car that had a coil and a condenser. 
   Both civilian and military capabilities depend on these infrastructures, almost totally. Without adequate protection, recovery could be prolonged months to years. That's a very long time to hold your breath in a situation like this. 
   Now we will look at the conclusions and they had a number of conclusions. One of the conclusions was the EMP  threat is one of a few potentially catastrophic threats to the United States. By taking action, the EMP threat can be reduced to manageable levels. U.S. strategy to address the EMP threat should balance prevention, preparation, protection, and recovery. And one of the first things that we should do is to look at recovery. Should it happen, what would you do? 
   I remember that during the Cold War, I was working for IBM corporation, and I was concerned about what we would do when we came out of the fallout shelter. And then those fallout shelters were so prevalent, so omnipresent, that IBM was giving their employees interest-free loans to build a backyard fallout shelter. And I asked myself what would I do when I come out of the fallout shelter because it's going to be a whole different world? Then we were looking at perhaps hundreds of nuclear weapons falling on our cities and taking them out, but we had all of the fallout shelters, the civil defense things. Any public building you went into, there were brochures there telling you what you ought to do and how to do it. So people were really thinking about it. And in schools you practiced what you would do if there was an attack. You would put your head down between your knees and so forth. I remember that when I worked for the National Institutes of Health, we had drills there because our big research hospital there was going to become, I think, a 500-bed hospital for casualties. Then we developed and the Soviets developed the hydrogen bomb, and we weren't even sure that the hospital was going to be there after that. It was certainly going to be there after the conventional nuclear weapon. But we were preparing for that. So we can do something to prepare. 
   Critical military capabilities must be survivable and durable to underwrite U.S. strategy. If the enemy knows that they cannot shut down our retaliatory force, they will be much less inclined to do this unless they plan to do it in a very covert way. By the way, the book that I mentioned, this attack on our country, ``One Second After,'' the attack comes from a missile which is launched at sea, and then after the missile is launched, the ship is sunk so there are no fingerprints. 
   The next chart shows some conclusions, some action items. The 2006 defense authorization bill contains a provision extending the EMP Commission, and now we have the 2008 bill, and we are hoping to extend it now until 2012. The commission has been very effective. I will tell you that your military now is acutely aware of this and the Pentagon is aggressively addressing it. I come from Maryland, and I was pleased when the commission members told me today that Maryland is one of two States in the country that is as a State doing something about this. And so we hope the Commission will be very active in the next 4 years, and they are going to States, they are going to rotary clubs, they are going everywhere they can go to tell the people about this and what we can do and should do. 
   Terrorists are looking for vulnerabilities to attack, and our civilian infrastructure is particularly susceptible to this kind of attack. As I mentioned, our very vulnerability invites attack, and we can reduce the probability of attack if we do something meaningful to protect ourselves. 
   The Department of Homeland Security needs to identify critical infrastructures. Indeed they do. I have been concerned that our Homeland Security Department is doing essentially nothing in the area of civil defense. And I remember very well the Cold War. I was born in 1926, and I grew up during the Depression and then the long World War II and the long Cold War after that. And I remember we would have blackout drills, and one of the neighbors would be assigned on a volunteer basis to make sure that everything was blacked out. This was during the war when there was some threat that enemy bombers might be coming over our country. And then during the Cold War that followed that, every public building you went into would have literature telling you how to produce a fallout shelter, how to improvise one in your basement if you hadn't built one outside, the kind of food to store. It was available for sale at many places. How much water you needed. They had pictures of the fallout shelter and the beds and so forth and how you would make due there for the several days to a couple of weeks. And they made available monitoring equipment so that you would know when it was safe to go out when the radiation levels had fallen down to where it was safe to go out. So everybody--we practiced in schools. At our workplaces we practiced. And today there is essentially no attention given to advising individuals, businesses, churches, social clubs what they can do individually and collectively, and I will tell you that our strength is going to be determined not so much by our military, which is going to be okay, but our strength as a country is going to be determined by what we have done individually as families, as small communities to protect ourselves so that we do not become immediately a ward of the State. 
   And they asked Dr. Bill Graham what he had personally done. He has a generator which is not plugged in. Plug it in. It's hooked to the electrical system. 
   It's a long line, effective, a big antenna. It's much more likely to be damaged if it's plugged in. With 200 kilovolts per meter, by the way, it's probably all gone anyhow. But if it's a lesser intense weapon than that, not plugging in it would make a difference. He has food and water for several days. 
   The average city has 3 days supply of food, 3 days supply of food. And I noted in the hearing today that if in anticipation of this, a year or 2 before and even a decade because this food, nitrogen packed and freeze dried, will last a very long time, then you are a patriot because now you're stimulating the economy. But if you wait until the hurricane is at the door or the missile attack is imminent and you do exactly the same thing, now you're a horder. Have you thought about that difference? You've done exactly the same thing. You put away food and water and essentials for survival. If you do it well ahead of the event, now you're a patriot, doing the right thing. If you do it immediately before the event, now you've become a horder. And nobody likes a horder. 
   The Department of Homeland Security also needs to develop a plan to help citizens deal with such an attack should it occur. This is not me saying that. It is the EMP Commission saying that. Citizens need to become as self-sufficient as possible. And they note something which is really very important. There are a number of things, a Hurricane Katrina, almost nobody there had made any preparation for this. And with hours they now were dependent on services from a government that wasn't there, that couldn't get there. And the Federal Government will tell you don't count on us for at least 72 hours. You need to be on your own. And I think that the really wise thing to do would be to be prepared for several days to several weeks. And there are any number of natural events or human-caused events that could result. Suppose it was a major strike. Oil is now 141 or so dollars a barrel, gas is over $4 a gallon, diesel nearly $5 a gallon. At some point the trucker may decide enough is enough, we quit, in protest, you've got to do something about this. A 3-day supply of food in the stores. Wouldn't it be nice if you had a meaningful supply in your home so there are a number of storms that you could weather in addition to this one? Citizens need to become as self-sufficient as possible. 
   Well, I have been concerned about electromagnetic pulse now for a number of years. I am very pleased that we were able to get this commission set up. I am really pleased with the quality of the commission and what they have been able to do. And now we are extending it. We have already passed the bill in the House here. We're extending it now for 4 more years, to 2012, and I look forward to the commission's being active. And this is really very stimulating and challenging, and meeting a big challenge like this and overcoming it is exhilarating. And I will tell you, rather than watching silly programs on television, the family would be much better rewarded and would feel better if they would sit down and say what can we do to prepare for this? Because our country is going to be stronger if I am self-sufficient and maybe I have enough to help somebody else, so that I'm not a ward of the State. And I hope that your government--the Homeland Security is the right place to look--is going to become more active in telling you what you need to do. But if they  don't, go back and look at the advice given during the Cold War. What we were encouraged to do then, what we did then is precisely the kind of thing we need to do now. Now, there was lots of preparation. There were fallout shelters that would accommodate hundreds of people. If you went to Switzerland, if you go today, you will find that all of Switzerland can go underground with enough food and water to last them for quite a while. Now, we never had that level of preparedness, but we were enormously better prepared then than we are now. 
   Well, Madam Speaker, I am pleased for this opportunity to talk about this very important subject, and I hope that we become less and less vulnerable, which will reduce the threat more and more. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. (DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - September 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland. Mr. Speaker, I strongly encourage my colleagues to suspend the rules and pass the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009. 
   As ranking member of the Seapower and Expeditionary Forces Subcommittee, I applaud the efforts that Chairman Skelton, Ranking Member Hunter and Chairman Taylor have made to negotiate a final package with the Senate under extraordinarily constrained circumstances, the shortest conference in history, I think. 
   I want to thank the staff for their invaluable contributions. This bill does an excellent job of meeting the needs of our soldiers, sailors, aviators and marines. 
   The bill fully funds the next generation carrier, the next Virginia class submarine, and provides advanced procurement funding that would smooth the ramp for construction of two Virginia class submarines per year. This bill authorizes and fully funds two T-AKEs and two Littoral Combat Ships. 
   The bill would also provide advance procurement for a DDG-51 destroyer, which the Navy has testified would better meet their requirements. We have still provided sufficient funding for DDG-1000 to give the Navy options and flexibility for the procurement of surface combatants. 
   Additionally, the bill extends the House commitment to expand nuclear propulsion for shipbuilding. In addition to next generation cruisers, the bill would also require that future amphibious assault vessels include nuclear power. 
   Finally, Mr. Speaker, I would like to congratulate several of our colleagues who are retiring at the end of this Congress. Duncan Hunter, Jim Saxton and Terry Everett have my deepest respect and gratitude. Thank you for your dedication and service to our country and everything you have done for the men and women in uniform. 
   Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to support this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
