<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (IRAQ ASSESSMENT -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlelady from Tennessee for yielding to me. 
   It is kind of ironic. We were here on the floor of this House last night. The House was full, Members on both sides. We heard the President deliver his final State of the Union address, and of course, as is typical for a State of the Union address, he touched on subjects near and far, went through the domestic agenda, went through the foreign agenda. 
   When he got to talking about the conditions on the ground in Iraq, I don't know about the gentlelady from Tennessee, but I was just absolutely struck by the scene in this House when he commended the troops for the activities and the success that they had achieved on the ground. One-half of the House stood up and applauded; the other half sat on their hands. 
   And Mr. Speaker, I don't know if there's been another time in American history when America goes to war, sends their sons and daughters to war, America is winning the war, and it's become something we don't want to talk about. There's other things that command our attention now, and we'll go on to other things. 
   The gentlelady was right, it was a year ago that we stood on the floor of this House and debated for hour after hour after hour on the efficacy of sending additional troops to Iraq. We were told by the majority leader over in the Senate, the Democratic majority leader, that the war was lost; there was no need to send additional men because we had already made the decision in the Senate, or the other body in the Capitol of the United States, that the war was over and the war was indeed lost. 
   The gentlelady's right, you can pick data points to prove whatever you want to prove in Iraq. They're all over the map, but if you look at trend lines over time, you begin to see a story taking shape, and that is the story that began to take shape in April of last year, perhaps a little reinforced in June of last year, July of last year. 
   My most recent trip to Iraq, my sixth trip, I wasn't sure what I was going to find because when you picked up the papers, the data points were scattered all over the place, but little by little, the story came out. And 
   about a week after I was there in July, the New York Times finally broke the story, hey, there's a war we just might win going on in the country of Iraq, written by two individuals who, quite frankly, aren't always on the side of the President of the United States, so it seems, in their writings in the New York Times. The New York Times itself is not always on the same page as the President in a lot of foreign policy issues, but there it was in black and white for all to see. 
   Now, I went to Iraq in July of 2007. I very much wanted to go because I knew that the surge had started. I knew that General Petraeus had committed to come back and present data to Congress in September of 2007 to talk about the success, or lack thereof, of the additional reinforcements that were sent into the country of Iraq. And I knew that this House, I knew myself as a Member of this House, was going to have to come to some decisions or some conclusions, if it's working it or it's not working; if it's not working, we will have to rethink the strategy. 
   So it was an important trip for me to take because I knew on every other trip that I had taken to Iraq what I saw on the ground bore no resemblance to what I was seeing on my television screens on CNN and CBS and the evening news and the morning shows. You have to go and look at it for yourselves to be able to understand what is happening. 
   You know it's not an easy job. It was a brief war, but it's been a long hard slog to get to where we are today, and history will have to decide whether the investment in time, the investment in lives, the investment in families who are deprived of their loved ones during these long deployments, history will decide the accuracy of the words that we speak tonight. 
   But I will tell you from the strength of that last trip in July and what I have seen reported since that time, I have to believe that this country going forward is going to be in far better shape in 10 years', 20 years', 30 years' time because we have an Iraq that has an opportunity now to be a stable partner in a quest for peace in the Middle East, as opposed to a haven and an outpost for continued terrorism in that part of the world. 
   In July of 2006, I took a trip to Iraq. Peter Chiarelli on that trip said, you know, it's funny, I don't know want to make of it, but in a part of the country of Iraq that is very, very dangerous, al  Anbar province, a city called Ramadi, we don't know what to make of it but some insurgents that were in the hospital yesterday turned over all of their arms to our soldiers, and we'll just have to wait and see what develops. In fact, he asked me not to talk about it when I got back in July of 2006 because, again, he was not sure what that meant. 
   July of 2007, fast forward to that time. We got off the C-130 in Baghdad International Airport, get on the helicopters and are immediately taken to Ramadi. Ramadi, that was too dangerous a place to travel to a year before, was our first stop. We met General Gaston of the 2nd Marine Expeditionary Force there on the ground in Ramadi. Ramadi is a city about the size of Ft. Worth. Ft. Worth, Texas, is the largest city in my district back home. It was the provincial capital of the resurgent caliphate as established by al Qaeda in western Iraq. 
   The reality, though, was that things had changed enormously over that past year and in ways that, quite honestly, had not been reported in the press back here at home. Again, I didn't know what I was going to find when I went there, but I have to tell you the job that was done by the Marines in the 2nd Marine Expeditionary Force, the job that was done by the troops on the ground on these long deployments that they were undertaking, the job was truly phenomenal. 
   A year before I would not have been able to travel to the city of Ramadi. Now, not only could I travel to the city of Ramadi, after the briefing, after the endless Power Point that the military always gives you when you go over there, we got in vehicles and drove to downtown Ramadi.     
   I've got to tell you, I was a little concerned; General Gaston, are you sure that it's okay for us to go to downtown Ramadi? Last year, General Chiarelli said it's kind of dangerous out there. He said, ``Let's go.'' 
   We drove downtown. It was a Saturday morning, early on a Saturday morning. We drove to the market. It looked like a market any other place in the Middle East. There was a lot of activity. In fact, there were the typical sights and sounds of a city that has, perhaps, seen better days. They were working on some sewer pipes. There was, in fact, a little bit of construction going on. 
   But this photograph was taken last July 17th in the city of Ramadi. This shows the shops. I don't know where all this stuff came from. If this was an American market, I would assume all this stuff came from China. I'm not sure where it was made. But all of these wares were for sale, and there was shop after shop after shop lined up and down either side of the street. 
   You can see the faces of the young men there; a little bit of curiosity, all of these Americans showing up and walking through their streets. I'm sure for them it was a sight that they had not seen too often. But again, you see on the faces of these young men, these are not faces that are suspicious, these are not faces that are fearful, these are faces that are smiling. They were, in fact, glad to see us. And I found out a few minutes later why they were glad to see us; they were hoping that we had a pen or a quarter. They had apparently been well coached by our marines. Their school was going to start in a few weeks, and because they would be attending their classes, they were anxious to know if we had a writing instrument that we might part with that they could have. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (IRAQ ASSESSMENT -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. And of course I do need to make the point that this was an area that just a few months before had seen some of the most intense fighting. And many of the buildings at the front of the street, well, let's just put it this way, a JDAM doesn't do anything for your drive-up appeal. And there were several buildings that obviously had suffered the scars of war. But as you went a little further down the street, you began to come upon scenes such as this. 
   And I would simply point out that at the very edge of the photograph here, and I had forgotten this, we see a brightly colored garment set that looks like it would be appropriate for a woman to wear. I saw more women on this trip to Iraq than I can recall seeing at any other trip where I had been through the country. And it was, to me, reassuring that the female members of Iraqi society felt comfortable enough to travel out to the shops on a Saturday morning and be with their husbands and their children, as you so eloquently point out, as commerce was breaking out all over on the streets of Ramadi. 
   Again, I just want to show another picture of some children. These guys were pretty curious as to what was going on with all of these strange folks that had shown up and were walking through town. Again, you can see in the background some additional brightly colored wares for sale. This fellow turned out to be fairly inquisitive. And he had a keen interest, again, in writing instruments that I want to assume that's because his school was starting up in a few weeks' time. 
   What has been described as ``The Anbar Awakening,'' we heard the President reference it last night, began in the city of Ramadi where the Sunnis began to recognize, you know, these guys from al Qaeda; they're actually not our friends. They refer to the Americans as occupiers, but maybe it's the al Qaeda guys that are actually the occupiers. And we do believe that at some point the Americans want to go home, but we can't say the same for our friends in al Qaeda. And the Sunni sheiks, the tribal leaders in the towns, rapidly turned it. And to hear it be described by our marines and our soldiers there, it literally turned on a few weeks' time, some rather intense fighting as the surge began to mount its full reinforcement, and then suddenly things changed dramatically for the better. 
   And for me, on this trip, the one thing that I saw that was different from any other trip that I had taken over there on the ground, now, we can criticize the Baghdad government, and both sides of the aisle I know will do that with regularity, I may do so before this 
   night is over, but the local political shift that's taking place on the ground in Iraq, the county commissioners, the city councilmen, the mayors that are doing the kinds of work that you want your local government to do, you know, quite honestly, I go home every weekend and the people are happy to see me. But if there's a problem at home, most of the time they're not going to call their Congressman; they'll call their mayor, they'll call their county commissioner, or they'll call their county administrator or their county judge because those are the folks that are closest to the people, and it's up to them to deliver for their constituents, the same conditions we have here in our districts back home.  
   The local political shift really is what, to me, is the fundamental building block of the return of civil society, a civil society that had been so badly damaged under the years of Saddam, a civil society that has been so badly damaged by the war and then the insurgency that followed is now beginning to take hold. And it is very effective. 
   Now, the question remains, will the central government in Baghdad respond to the needs of those local officials with enough dispatch that they are, in fact, bolstered and supported by the central government in Baghdad? It is sometimes startling to me to think that a government so young can already have such an entrenched bureaucracy that is slow to act. But nevertheless, we hear some stories coming out that there is more and more of this type of activity occurring. But again, the stability at the local level was something that I don't think I can tell you that I had witnessed on any of the five previous trips through that country. All of those trips more dealt with the security that our forces were establishing. Now we see the security that is actually being established by the Iraqis themselves. 
   They had a job fair, I understand, in this part of town about a week before and hired everything that showed up. And there were a lot of people that came. The jobs were fairly labor intensive. Again, there had been a lot of bombing in the city. There was a lot of concrete littering the street that had to be picked up. The reinforcing steel that was embedded in the concrete had to be broken out or dissected out. There were several groups of men that were straightening out this rebar to use as reconstruction projects. But again, the work was going on. And the mood, this was July in western Iraq, it's 10 o'clock in the morning and probably already 125 degrees, but the mood of the people was truly something that I will always remember because they were doing for themselves the types of things that free people want to do for themselves. And it was a wonderful feeling. And you know the soldiers could feel it, too, when they walk through these towns. 
   The ability to give to these young men a life ahead of them that they wouldn't have had, they would have been conscripted into Saddam's army and fought a war at someplace or other; they now have a life ahead of them that really, quite honestly, their parents dared not hope for them and now it is brought to them courtesy of the United States Marines, United States Army. 
   I yield back to the gentlelady from Tennessee, and I want to thank her for allowing me to participate in the discussion this evening. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (AWARDING A CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL TO MICHAEL ELLIS D<em>e</em>BAKEY, M.D. -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time. 
   Mr. Speaker, I do want to thank my friends who have come to the floor to help us today honor Dr. Michael DeBakey. I do want to thank Al Green for his persistence in getting this bill to the floor. It has been a long time in the making. And obviously I want to thank our senior Senator from Texas, Kay Bailey Hutchison, and certainly thank Chairman Frank for allowing the Senate bill to come through the floor procedure so that we may hasten this floor process for Dr. DeBakey. As has been mentioned here several times this morning, Dr. DeBakey is 99 years old and certainly deserving of this honor, and we need to get it to him with all haste. 
   Dr. DeBakey is the father of cardiovascular surgery in our country. And I do encourage my colleagues to vote in favor of S. 474, a bill to designate the Congressional Gold Medal for the famed Houston heart surgeon.     
   This bill has been very important to me, as one of the physicians in the House of Representatives, to be able today to come to the floor and talk about how Dr. DeBakey changed the face of medicine so significantly forever in this country. As a fellow physician, Dr. DeBakey's work on medical advancements is legendary. His dedication to healing those around him came not only from his talents as a physician but his ongoing commitment to the larger medical community. His motto, as we heard others mention it today, was ``strive for nothing less than excellence.'' Boy, every Member of this House could adopt that as one of our mottos and do better by the country for it. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would be remiss if I didn't mention the education and entrepreneurial spirit that made him worthy of the Nation's highest expression of appreciation for distinguished achievements and contributions. Dr. DeBakey received his bachelor's and M.D. degree from Tulane University in New Orleans, as we have already heard mentioned. He delivered Al Green in medical school. 
   But probably more importantly, while in medical school, he developed the roller pump, later to become the major component in the heart-lung machine that is used in open heart surgery routinely today. This was a groundbreaking achievement, Mr. Speaker. Every pump to pump the heart, to take over the work of the heart artificially, prior to that time, had worked on a mechanical piston-type arrangement. Dr. DeBakey envisioned the roller pump which preserved the structure of red blood cells as they took their course through the pump and allowed this pump to, in fact, become part and parcel with something that we now just all accept as part of cardiovascular surgery. It was truly a visionary change. Again, he popularized that while he was in medical school in the 1930s. 
   Now, Dr. DeBakey completed his internship at Charity Hospital, one of the venerable institutions of learning in this country. Many of my professors at Parkman Hospital trained at Charity Hospital. Charity Hospital is no longer with us because of the ravages of Hurricane Katrina 2 years ago. After Dr. DeBakey completed his internship at Charity, he went on to the University of Strasbourg in France and the University of Heidelberg in Germany. 
   He volunteered for service in World War II and was subsequently named director of the surgical consultants division of the U.S. Surgeon General's Office. His work during that war led to the development of what we have already heard described today as the Mobile Army Surgical Hospital, the so-called MASH unit. Mr. Green has already eloquently pointed out that we wouldn't have the MASH units today. More importantly, we wouldn't have those forward surgical teams that go into the combat areas and provide vital care to our soldiers in that first golden hour after injury, all of that pioneered by Dr. DeBakey well over two generations ago. 
   He helped establish the specialized medical and surgical center system for treating military personnel returning home from war, which we now know as the Veterans Administration Medical Center. But it was at Methodist Hospital in Houston where Dr. DeBakey performed many of his groundbreaking surgeries, including the first removal of a carotid artery blockage in 1950, interestingly the year that I was born, the first coronary artery bypass graft in 1964, the first use of a ventricle assist device to pump blood and support a diseased heart in 1966; and then on to some of the first heart transplants in this country in 1968 and 1969. 
   He developed a self-contained miniaturized left ventricular assist device to pump blood for a diseased heart, something that is in use to this day. The techniques used to miniaturize the device's inner workings were developed by engineers working on the Nation's space program at nearby NASA. 
   He has served as adviser to every President of the United States for the last 50 years. Think of that, Mr. Speaker: every President for the last 50 years has depended upon Dr. Michael DeBakey for medical advice. He has given advice to heads of state throughout the world and traveled famously to Russia in 1996 to consult on heart surgery for the ailing Boris Yeltsin. I have  to believe, Mr. Speaker, that he did a lot more than consult in that operating room that day 10 years ago. 
   During his professional surgical career, he performed more than 60,000 cardiovascular procedures and trained thousands of surgeons who practice around the world. Today, his name is affixed to any number of organizations, centers for learning and projects devoted to medical education and health education for the general public. 
   But think of this, Mr. Speaker: Dr. DeBakey also underwent an operation that was named for him. I picked up a copy of the New York Times last December and read a story about how Dr. DeBakey had undergone the surgery that he himself had described many years before. In fact, Dr. DeBakey admitted that at the time, although he knew he was ill, he never called his own doctor, he never called 911. 
   ``If it becomes intense enough you are perfectly willing to accept cardiac arrest as a possible way of getting rid of the pain.'' This is what he told the New York Times last year. What a unique, what a pragmatic individual. 
   He helped establish the National Library of Medicine which is now the world's largest and most prestigious repository of medical archives. The National Library of Medicine is something I look at several times a week as I prepare for committee hearings on our Committee on Energy and Commerce, developed and established by Dr. Michael DeBakey. 
   Mr. Speaker, as we talk in this Congress about the need for improving computer technology for medical records and medical information, Dr. DeBakey was on the forefront of that while most of us were still in grammar school. In 1969 he received the highest honor a United States citizen can receive, the Presidential Medal of Freedom with Distinction. In 1976, his students founded the Michael E. DeBakey International Surgical Society. His contributions to medicine and his breakthrough surgeries and innovative devices have completely transformed our view of the human body and our view of longevity on this planet. He has been designated as a living legend by the United States Library of Congress; and, today, we take another step in honoring him with the Congressional Gold Medal. 
   Mr. Speaker, it has been a high honor for me to be associated with this endeavor. And I certainly do thank Mr. Green and thank him for allowing me to be on the telephone when we gave the news to Dr. DeBakey several weeks ago on his 99th birthday. It is imperative that we get this legislation accomplished quickly. I appreciate Mr. Green's willingness to work with the other body in getting this legislation to the floor so swiftly. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (THE STATE OF HEALTH CARE IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I am coming to the floor tonight to talk, as I often do, about health care, the state of health care in America, some of the things that we face as a country, as a Congress. And, Mr. Speaker, we have reached a point where it is kind of a unique time, and it occurs from time to time in our Nation's history in political cycles that we have the political reality of unfettered election-year politics meeting head on with the perennial challenge of redefining or reforming America's health care system. 
   Mr. Speaker, the history of health care in America over, say, the past 60-plus years going back to the 1940s is that of a very highly structured, highly ordered scientific process coupled with a variety of governmental policies, policies each aimed at achieving a specific objective; but rarely do we get the opportunity to reexamine the policies and what follows on from those policies and how they continue to affect things years and decades into the future. 
   Mr. Speaker, if we go back to that time in the middle 1940s, the time of the Second World War, some significant scientific advances occurred. In 1928, for example, Sir Alexander Fleming rediscovered penicillin. It actually had been discovered in the late 1800s, but Sir Alexander Fleming in England discovered that the growth of a bacteria called staphylococcus could be inhibited by the growth of a certain type of mold on the auger plate. Well, it took some additional research. It took some additional input from other scientists who actually came to this country and developed the process of fermentation that allowed for the large-scale production of that compound that we now know as penicillin, a compound that when it was first discovered was priceless. You couldn't get it at any cost and by 1946 had come down to about 55 cents a dose, all because of American ingenuity coming into play in the mid-1940s. In fact, soldiers injured during the invasion of Normandy on D-Day were oftentimes treated for their wartime-acquired wounds that became infected with penicillin. 
   Another individual, an individual we have honored on the floor of this House during the last Congress, Dr. Percy Julian, an African American scientist or, actually, an organic chemist, who didn't discover cortisone. Cortisone had been discovered earlier. But the extraction of cortisone from the adrenal glands of oxen was a laborious time-intensive process, and as a consequence, cortisone was only available as a curiosity, as an oddity. But Dr. Julian perfected a methodology for building cortisone out of precursor molecules that were present in soybeans and, as a consequence, ushered in the age of the commercial production of cortisone. 
   So there in the 1940s, we had the development of two processes that allowed for the commercial application of an antibiotic, an anti-infective agent, that previously was unavailable on the scale that it was made available after the Second World War, and an anti-inflammatory, cortisone, for treating things like rheumatoid arthritis, Addison's disease. Cortisone now on a commercially available basis. These changes profoundly affected the practice of American medicine starting at about the time of the Second World War. 
   But what about on the policy arena? Did anything significant happen during the Second World War? Well, you bet it did. What happened during the Second World War is President Roosevelt said in order to keep down trouble from inflation, he was going to enact some very strict wage and price controls on American workers. And he felt it was necessary to do that because, after all, the country was at war. 
   Well, employers were looking for ways to keep their workers involved and keep them on the job, and they came up with the idea, well, maybe we could offer benefits. Maybe we could offer health insurance, retirement plans. It was somewhat controversial as to whether or not these could, in fact, be offered at a time of such strict wage and price controls, controversial as to whether or not these added-on benefits would be taxed at regular earnings rates. Well, the Supreme Court ruled that they could, indeed, be offered; that they did not violate the spirit of the wage and price controls, and, in fact, they could be awarded as a pretax expense. 
   Fast forward another 20 years to the mid-1960s, and now the administration and the Congress are locked in the discussion and the debates that ultimately led to the passage of the amendment to the Social Security Act that we now know as the Medicare program. Suddenly we have a situation where the body of scientific evidence,  the body of scientific knowledge is expanding at an ever-increasing rate. We have got some fundamentally different ways of paying for health care, some in the private sector and now some in the public sector, all leading to what is happening currently at the present time. 
   Now, again, going back to the Second World War, most health care was paid for at the time of service, and that was a cash exchange between the patient and the physician or the patient and the hospital. Now, with the advent of employer-derived health insurance and with the interposition of now this large government program, most health care is now administered through some type of third-party arrangement. 
   Now, this is useful. It protects the individual who is covered from large cash outlays. But there is a trade-off, and this covered individual is generally unaware of the cost of the care that is rendered, as well as the provider who is quite happy to remain insensitive as to the cost of the care that is ordered. This arrangement has created an environment that permits rapid growth in all health care sector costs. 
   We have a hybrid system. America's challenge then becomes evident. How do we improve upon the model of the current hybrid system, which involves both public and private payment for health care and which anesthetizes most parties involved as to the true cost of this care? It's also wise to consider that any truly useful attempt to modernize the system, any attempt to modernize the system, the primary goal has to be, first off, protect the people instead of protecting the status quo. 
   Now, we must also ask ourselves if the goal is to protect a system of third-party payment or provide Americans with a reasonable way to obtain health care and allow physicians a reasonable way to provide care for their patients. Remember that the fundamental unit of production is the interaction that takes place between the medical professional, the physician, and the patient in the treatment room. That fundamental interaction is the widget that is produced by this large health care machine, and sometimes that concept gets absolutely lost in translation. 
   Now, the current situation subsidizes and makes payment to those indirectly involved in the delivery of that widget, and ultimately that drives up the cost. Now, currently in the United States, we spend, depending upon what you read, 15, 16, and 17 percent of the gross domestic product on health care, amounting to about $1.6 trillion a year. Within that total amount of spending, the government accounts for approximately half. When you add together the expenditure of the Medicare, the Medicaid system, the Federal prison system, VA system, Indian health service, all of those things together equal about 50 cents out of every health care dollar that is spent in this country. 
   The other half is made up by commercial insurance, self-pay, and I would include health savings accounts in that grouping of self-pay. Certainly some percentage is made up by services that are just simply donated or never reimbursed. We might call it charity care. 
   A lot of money is spent in health care, but only a fraction on direct patient care and oftentimes too much on an inefficient system.     
   Now, the test before us, the test before this Congress, the test before this country is to protect the people instead of providing protection to special interests. Define that which ought to be determined by market forces, market principles, and that which of necessity must being left in the realm of a government or public provider; that balance between the public and private sectors, and how in all of this process we preserve the individual self-direction instead of establishing supremacy of the State. 
   Additionally, we must challenge those things that result in the extortion of market forces in health care and acknowledge that some of that extortion is endemic, some of it's built into the system, some of it's hidden and not readily changed, and some of it is, in fact, easily amenable to change. And we need to know the difference, and we need to know what is worthwhile to try to effect change. 
   Now, the key here is how to maximize value at the production level; again, where that widget is produced, the doctor-patient interaction in the treatment room. How do we place a patient who exists on a continuum between health and disease, how do we shift that balance more in the favor of a state of continued health, which is obviously less expensive than paying for disease? Do we allow physicians a return on the investment, which opens up a host of questions relating to future physician workforce issues, and I am going to touch on those in more detail in just a minute. 
   How do we keep the employer, if the employer is involved, how do we get them to see value in a system, things like a quicker return of an ill employee to work, increased productivity, better maintenance of a healthy and more satisfied workforce? In regards to health insurance, how to provide a predictable and manage risk environment, remembering that insurance companies are, of necessity, they tend to seek a state of a natural monopoly; and if left unchecked, they will, indeed, seek that condition. 
   And finally, how do we balance the needs of hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, long-term care facilities and the needs of the community, as well as the needs of doctors, nurses and administrators? 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, some legislation has already been introduced to try to effect some of these changes. I want to make reference at this point to a publication that's produced by my home State organization, the Texas Medical Association. Last March, this was the cover of their publication, Texas Medicine. It referenced that the United States may, in fact, be running out of doctors. 
   So I've introduced three pieces of legislation geared toward the physician workforce and how do we keep the workforce involved and engaged. Alan Greenspan, talking to a group of us right before he retired as chairman of the Federal Reserve, came in and talked to a group of us one morning and was asked the question: How in the world are we ever going to pay for Medicare going into the future? And he thought about it for a moment and he said, if I recall correctly he said, ``Well, I'm not sure. But I think when the time comes, you will do what is necessary to preserve the system.'' And I believe he is right. But he went on to say, ``What concerns me more is will there be anyone there to provide the services that you require.'' 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, in an effort to be certain that there are the people there to provide the services that we require, I introduced legislation such as 2583. This establishes low-interest loans for hospitals seeking to establish residencies in high-need specialties, primary care, general surgery, OB/GYN, gerontology in medically underserved areas. It turns out one of the thrusts of this article is that doctors tend to have a lot of inertia, they tend to go into practice close to where they had trained. So if we can establish residency programs where none currently exist in communities of moderate to small size and allow those physicians to undergo their training in those community hospitals, they're very likely to settle in or very close to those communities, thereby driving the equation in favor of supplying physicians in high-need specialties in medically underserved areas. 
   Another piece of legislation, H.R. 2584, is more geared at the medical student or perhaps even the student in college, the student who's considering a career in health professions. And this expands the old health professions scholarships, provides the availability of scholarships, provides the availability of low-interest loans, provides the availability of favorable tax treatment if an individual is willing to go into practice in a medically underserved area in a high-need specialty. 
   And then finally, the third piece of legislation, 2585, deals with more of what I would describe as the mature physician, that physician who has been in practice. But one of the problems of our publicly financed side of health care, one of the problems in the Medicare side is that reimbursement rates for doctors are decreased year over year as an effort to control costs in the overall program, but the result is it tends to drive doctors away from practice. So this bill would have at its heart the repeal of a payment formula that is referred to as the ``sustainable  growth rate,'' or SGR formula, which I believe is critical. I believe we have to repeal that formula if indeed we're going to keep physicians involved in the process. 
   Mr. Speaker, another component of this bill, 2585, does allow for some voluntary compensation if a physician or group wishes to participate in a system to upgrade health information technology. And I put this slide up here, Mr. Speaker, because this is the records room at Charity Hospital in New Orleans taken in October of 2005. You can see that, although the records themselves were not disturbed by the wind of that particular storm, that records room is in the basement and it was completely under water for several days. And you can see there, this is 2 months after the storm, probably a month after the water was removed from the downtown area of New Orleans and removed from the basement, you can see the destruction evident on those paper records. And clearly, that's a situation that has to be addressed. If we are going to move America forward into the 21st century, that's a condition that has to be addressed. And I have attempted to do that in H.R. 2585, as it deals with the medical workforce; it also deals with some bonus payments to allow physicians who wish to voluntarily participate in an upgrade of health information technology, allows them the freedom to do that. 
   Other legislation that is out there, H.R. 3509. H.R. 3509 is a medical liability bill. And this bill was crafted after legislation that was passed in my home State of Texas in September of 2003. This was legislation that was crafted, it was styled after the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975 passed by the State of California and then modernized for the 21st century. And what this bill does is provide a cap on noneconomic damages. It is a cap that is shared between physicians, hospitals, a second hospital or a nursing home, if one is involved. Each entity is capped at a $250,000 payment for noneconomic damages, or an aggregate cap of $750,000. 
   Now, the reason I bring this up, the reason I introduced this legislation that is similar to the Texas-passed legislation in the House of Representatives, is, after all, our Founding Fathers said that the States should function as laboratories for the country. So here we have the State of Texas functioning as a laboratory for meaningful liability reform in the health care sector. And the results are in and the results are clear; 4 years after this legislation was passed we have held rates down for premiums for medical liability insurance for physicians. More importantly, a State that was losing insurers at a rapid rate, we had gone from 17 insurers down to two by the end of 2002, which was my last year of active practice, and now we're back up to numbers in the twenties or thirties. And these liability insurance carriers have come back to the State without an increase in premiums. In fact, the Texas Medical Liability Trust, my old insurer of record, has lowered rates by about 22 percent at the time of my last calculation. 
   This is critical for getting the young individual who is in high school or college interested in a career in the health profession. The crisis in medical liability that exists in many areas of the country serves as a deterrent, a repellant that keeps young people from even thinking about a career in health care. And that is, in fact, one that we do desperately need to change. 
   Let me, just for a moment, go back to the Texas Medical Association hypothesis, ``are we running out of doctors,'' and the comments of Chairman Greenspan as he spoke to our group early that morning, now probably some 18 months ago. Will we run out of doctors? No. The answer is we probably won't. I guess we should ask ourselves: If we make the climate too inhospitable, if we make the climate too difficult, what will the doctors of the 21st century look like? Well, I don't know. But from time to time I allow myself some internal speculation as to what the medical workforce of the future might resemble, and sometimes I come across this young individual, kind of a health care entrepreneur from a famous American sitcom that is seen on the Fox Network. I don't know. But it's not worth running the risk of running out of physicians and not attracting the best and brightest into the practice of medicine. 
   Now, that brings me to what I would describe as a set of principles that for any health care legislation that I endorse, that I embrace, that I put out there myself or that I cosponsor, what are the principles that I need to see? Well, certainly, first and foremost, you have to have freedom of choice. American patients, they want to see who they want to see, they want to see them when they want to see them, and if hospitalization is required, no one objects to an incentive. But freedom of choice must remain central to any system, whether it is private or public, in this country. 
   Ownership. We hear a lot about the ownership society, things both good and bad. But I will tell you something, from having myself had a medical savings account starting back in 1997, when they first became available, until the time I left private practice in 2002. The whole concept of having a health savings account or, if you will, a medical individual retirement account, a medical IRA, and being allowed to accumulate savings in that account to offset future medical expenses, that's a fundamental desire of many people in this country. And many Americans in this country feel the same way, and, in fact, I'm of the opinion that that should be encouraged. The dollars accumulated in those accounts, and this is the great thing about them, even if you no longer have the account, which I no longer am insured through an HSA because when I came to Congress they weren't generally available. Now they are and I haven't switched back, but that money is still there. It still grows month by month at the regular savings rates. Right now I think it's about 4.5 percent, so a reasonable rate of return on that investment. But that money is there for me and my family to use in the future should any medical expenses arise that maybe aren't covered by other insurance. 
   Well, what happens if I get to the end of a long and happy life and I've never had to tap into those savings, what happens to them then? They stay in my family. They're available to my heirs and assigns for the coverage of their care going into the future, and all the while continuing to grow in value, tax deferred because that's the way the law was written back in 1997 when I first opened that account. 
   These dollars are dedicated to health care, they're owned by the individual, and they don't, by default, go to some governmental entity upon the death of the individual who's covered. 
   Now, another principle that I think is just critical to any discussion of health care is independence. There has to be preservation of autonomy. The patient or the patient's designee should ultimately be responsible for their care and the ability to accept or decline medical intervention. 
   High standards, one of the things that we pride ourselves on in this country, one of the underpinnings of the American medical system has always been high standards of excellence, and nothing in any future change should undermine that. And, in fact, pathways to facilitate future growth in excellence really ought to be encouraged. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have to preserve innovative approaches. American medicine has always been characterized as embracing innovation, developing new technologies and treatments. Clearly innovation must be preserved in any process going forward. 
   Another key is timeliness. Access to a waiting list does not equate to access to care; so spoke the Canadian Supreme Court to its medical system in 2005. We must diligently seek not to duplicate the most sinister type of rationing, which is a waiting list. And that can be, unfortunately, involved with any large health care system, whether it be a nationalized single payer system or, indeed, a very, very large private system.     
   We have to keep it market based and not administrative. Pricing should always be based on what is actually indicated by market conditions and not what is assumed by administrators. Remember, in general, mandates lead to a restriction of services. State mandates cause more harm than good, impede competition and choice, drive up the cost of care and can actually limit the availability of health insurance. Another type of mandate, we heard a lot  about it in 1993 when health care reform was discussed last decade, employer mandates and individual mandates are likewise restrictive. A discussion of mandates should include an accounting of cost and whether the mandates limit the availability of insurance for those who may operate a small business, for example, for those who may be self-employed or self-insured. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is worth remembering that Medicare part D in its first year of existence, the year 2006, achieved a 90 percent enrollment rate. They didn't do that with mandates. How did they do it? With education, incentives, competition, but certainly not mandates. Well, what about premium support? That is something you hear about from time to time. In fact, premium support was a big part of when President Bill Clinton talked about how to modernize the Medicare system. Bill Thomas who recently was chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Bill Frist who was Senate majority leader, Bobby Jindal who serves as a Member of this House currently, these individuals were on a task force appointed by President Clinton to try to improve the Medicare system. One of the concepts they came up with was premium support to help someone who doesn't make quite enough money to pay a health insurance premium, help them, support them in purchasing that premium or buy down the cost of that premium. A subsidy, yes, but I prefer to think of it in terms of support. 
   Now, people also talk about tax credits. It is a similar rationale for helping an individual who can't quite afford the premiums on their health insurance. Mr. Speaker, I just submit that our Tax Code is currently complicated enough. We don't need to do anything that further complicates the Tax Code. That is why I move in the direction of premium support as opposed to tax credits or other incentives. One of the things we ought to do, though, when we do talk about mandates, and certainly that has been one of the stories coming out of Massachusetts, the plan that Governor Romney talked about when he came and addressed our House Policy Committee a couple of years ago when that program was first established, one of the mechanisms they had at their disposal was the ability to, because they have a State income tax, the ability to help someone understand the validity of buying insurance. I don't know. Maybe we ought to look at that when we provide money to individuals through the earned income tax credit. Perhaps a portion of that money ought to be earmarked for at least a catastrophic policy or a high deductible policy, those that can be had generally at lower expense. Maybe it is time to think outside the box in that regard and provide those individuals an earmark, if you will, of that tax credit so that they, in fact, do purchase health insurance if they are going to be covered under the earned income tax credit. 
   Then finally, and this is a terribly difficult concept and a lot of people just tune me out when I talk about it, but we have to balance the way we handle our anti-trust laws. We have to balance anti-trust enforcement, and we have to prohibit overly aggressive anti-trust treatment under the law. Exemption or enhanced enforcement is only likely to further distort the market. It means the desired results are never obtained because we are always providing this market distorting influence by either protecting one side or one group and potentially punishing another side. Creating winners and losers via our anti-trust law erodes the viability of our American health care system. Again, I think we would do well to pay some attention to that and prevent that from being part of our lexicon in the future. 
   Now, as far as the specific policies for health care within the public sector model, the transformation after the experience with Medicare part D has, in fact, been instructive. Six protected classes of medication were required of all companies who wish to compete within the system. That allowed for greater acceptance by the covered population and certainly greater medical flexibility as far as the physicians were concerned when treating patients. At the same time, the competitive influences brought to bear in that part of the program, in fact, managed to bring down cost. 
   In fact, the projection of $130 billion over the 10-year budget window less than was originally outlined was a success story. That is solely the result of competition. I feel certain that, in the future, we are going to get benefits for more efficient treatment, timely treatment of disease. I think there are additional successes out there to be had, but certainly competition within the first year or two of the existence of part D program certainly showed where competition can pay off. 
   Now, one of the most important points of lessons learned in the Medicare part D program is that coverage can be significant without the use of mandates. Ninety percent of seniors now have some type of prescription drug coverage. That was achieved by creating plans that people actually wanted. It was achieved by providing the means and incentives to sign up in a timely fashion. This emphasized that personal involvement and responsibility was there, was important to maintain, and it was important to maintain credible coverage. There was, in fact, a premium to pay if someone signed up after the initial enrollment cycle. 
   Mr. Speaker, employer-derived insurance will continue to be a significant player in the American health care scene. It adds value. It adds value to the contract between the employer and the employee. It rewards loyal employees and builds commitments within the organization. Businesses can spread risk and help drive down cost. A feature of the proposed association health plans have been, in fact, proposed in this House in every Congress that I have been a Member of since the beginning of 2003. In fact, the first time I heard about the concept of association health plans, Mr. Speaker, was when it was actually delivered from the rostrum here in this House of Representatives. The concept was delivered by President William Jefferson Clinton in September of 1993. It is a concept that I believe we ought to explore. We ought to be able to discuss it rationally without impugning each other's character, because after all, it was brought to this Chamber by a Democratic President. It has been endorsed and supported by Republican Congresses in the past. 
   Again, the concept of association health plans is one that I think going forward could provide a great deal of utility as far as preventing the inexorable increase in health insurance premiums that are faced by small businesses and individual employees. These are people who don't get the benefits of spreading out the risk through a large insurance market. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, regardless of whether the system is public or private, vast changes in information technology are going to occur. They are going to need to be facilitated. We are coming up to a time of rapid 
   learning. Because of improvements in health care technology, the ability to manage databases and retrieving data in a timely fashion are going to be critical for the delivery of health care and for the protection of patients. 
   Mr. Speaker, let me share this picture with the House of Representatives. This is Master Sergeant Blades. I met the master sergeant at building 18 at Walter Reed Hospital last January. Of course, everyone remembers The Washington Post story about building 18 and how there was great concern that some of our soldiers were not being properly cared for, individuals who were on medical hold at Walter Reed and awaiting a ruling on their request for going back in with their unit or their request to have a disability claim evaluated. 
   Those individuals on medical hold became the subject of a good deal of discussion in the press here in Washington, D.C. Well, like many Members of Congress, I decided to go see for myself. I went out to Walter Reed. I went through building 18. The paper was right: it was crummy. But Master Sergeant Blades drew to my attention something that he said was, in fact, more significant and more important and, in fact, more of a frustration for him and his men who were there on medical hold. And that is the fact that there was no interoperability between medical records contained within the Department of Defense and that of the Veterans Administration. 
   You see here the master sergeant is preparing his medical record. It may not show up that well, but here is a medical record that he is going  through with a yellow highlighter. He is making his case for, again, either going back and joining his unit or making his case for perhaps a future disability claim. What he told me that day is that he can go through a medical record that may be the size of several stacked phonebooks on top of each other, go through and painstakingly pull out the bits of data that he thinks will be important to his case. This paper record will then go to someone's desk. It might sit there for a week, two or three, before it is opened. And then at some point it gets lost, and he has to start all over again, or his men have to start all over again. 
   So his admonition to his men who are under his command there at the medical hold unit at Walter Reed was to prepare several copies of your medical record. Don't leave your future, whatever it might hold, don't leave your future in the hands of a single medical record and at the discretion of someone who might be cleaning off a desk one night, think they are doing everyone a great favor by moving some charts or papers off to the side or some other location, where, in fact, they become lost and not retrievable. Again, I bring this up to just point to some of the problems that are out there. 
   We are in the 21st century. Rapid learning and rapid turnaround of data is something that is just expected. We go into an ATM in a foreign country. We swipe our card. We punch the number in. If it takes more than 12 seconds for the money to come out at the other end, we wonder what the problem is. We need to be moving to that same type of system within our medical information system because it is truly to the point where it is untenable. We saw that as, again, Master Sergeant Blade so eloquently pointed out to me that day at the Walter Reed Hospital. But we see it over and over again replicated in tests that have to be duplicated. Someone goes into a hospital emergency room late at night. They have had a CT scan earlier in the week in the physician's office, but it is not available to the emergency room doctor who then orders another test and, oh, by the way, there is another $1,000 spent by some insurance company, government or perhaps even the hospital itself if that patient is uninsured. 
   Another thing that I think really is something that we are going to have to really concentrate on in the future is introduced legislation, H.R. 1046, to modernize some of the quality reporting systems that are present in this country. I think quality reporting is going to be part and parcel of medical care going forward. I think it should be voluntary at this point. I think while we are in the mode of gathering data, a physician or group who wishes to voluntarily associate themselves with some type of quality reporting scheme, I think that should be rewarded at this point. I don't know that we have developed enough of the systems to require that. Now, State Quality Improvement Organizations, QIOs, were actually developed back in the '80s and early '90s across the country. They were developed to primarily deal with quality issues within the Medicare program itself. 
   But there is no need to reinvent the wheel here. These organizations are already out there. They exist. They do a credible job. If they need to be modernized for the 21st century, then so be it. But H.R. 1046 is an effort to bring those Quality Improvement Organizations into the 21st century and allow concepts like a medical home and allow concepts like the accumulation and utilization of data so it can be for the benefit of all of the physicians who attend the patient and of course the patient themselves. 
   Now, this approach was a component of the Medicare physician payment update proposal by then-chairman Joe Barton on my Energy and Commerce Committee when he offered it right at the end of 2006. I thought it was a good proposal then. I think it is one that certainly bears further exploration. 
   Mr. Speaker, within the individual market, and that is going to include for the purpose of my discussion both individuals who are paying their freight themselves out of pocket and those individuals who own a health savings account, introduced legislation, H.R. 1666, to provide for increased price transparency within the medical pricing system.     
   Information is going to evolve rapidly. It's going to evolve rapidly for individuals who are paying cash for their procedures, as was certainly the majority of cases back before the 1940s. But, again, we may see a growing, increasing segment of the population who hold medical savings accounts and will be the primary dispensers of their health care dollars, so those dollars will be spent much the same as a self-pay individual would handle their medical affairs. But it's going to require that the adequacy of reports and the detail of information that is available to patients on things like cost, price and quality, and, yes, there is a difference between what a procedure costs and what its price is, and quality information is going to be increasingly important for health care consumers to make best decisions about the health care of their families and how they wisely spend their health care dollars. This information needs to also be linked to data detailing perhaps complications and other issues, like perhaps infection rates, so that families and individuals are able to make the best decisions. 
   Now there are some Web-based programs that are out there right now. Again, in my home State of Texas on the Internet there's something called texaspricepoint.org, except it is abbreviated to txpricepoint.org. The individual who lives in the State of Texas can go to that Web site and, after the obligatory legal disclaimers that you have got to scroll through to ensure that you understand the data that you're about to call up, you can get some significant data on the difference in cost and price between hospitals in a given county, different hospitals that perhaps are offering the same procedures, something as simple as a fractured leg without complications. You can click on the appropriate button, scroll through the appropriate number of screens and get a cost comparison between all of the hospitals that exist within a given county and what the difference in cost is at each of those facilities. 
   Now someone who is truly on a third-party payment such as Medicare, Medicaid, SCHIP, they are not going to be perhaps so interested in that, but they might be from just a quality perspective. If one hospital is a lot more expensive than the others, that may be a quality issue that is driving that increased expense. 
   So I can see that that information would be useful to individuals who aren't in fact even the target population who's paying out-of-pocket for their own care. But certainly the individual in a family who's paying out-of-pocket, they're financing their health care out of cash flow, or the owner of a medical savings account, that individual is likely to be very interested in what that information on cost, price and quality is as it becomes available. I think we are going to see increasing utility of programs such as these going forward. 
   As we have talked about crafting a readily affordable basic package of insurance benefits, it's something that this Congress really ought to set itself seriously to do. Now we have had discussions in the 109th Congress. Sometimes those discussions got kind of rough. Let's remember, we, Congress at one time has agreed upon what exactly is a basic package of benefits that ought to be available to an individual who subscribes to a program, and that program is the program under the Federally Qualified Health Center statute. The statute is probably about 35 years old and it details at a significant level of detail what benefits ought to be available to the individual who goes in for their care at what is known as an FQHC, or Federally Qualified Health Center. 
   What if we were to get together and decide that same basic package of benefits ought to be available to an individual, but they wouldn't necessarily have to go into the Federally Qualified Health Center? Maybe it's embedded in a card that they take into a clinic or provider's office within their community who agrees to participate in the program. Clearly, there is some out-of-the-box thinking that can go on here in trying to provide a meaningful, affordable product for individuals who are currently lacking health insurance. 
   One of the things, again, that drives the cost up is all of the mandates that  we put on insurance companies. But maybe if we agreed on what should be the basic package of benefits, Republican and Democrat alike, sit down and agree on what should be that basic package of benefits and allow individuals to access that type of care within their own communities. 
   One of the problems with Federally Qualified Health Centers, and I am a believer in the concept, in fact, I am trying mightily to get a second such facility in my part of Tarrant County. I'd like to see one in Denton County, another county that I represent that doesn't have such a facility available. What has happened is we have picked winners and losers across my State, across the country. Some areas are replete with Federally Qualified Health Centers; other areas are seriously lacking in that type of care. 
   Maybe we need to take that thinking to the next level. Maybe we ought to, instead of building the bricks and mortar of a Federally Qualified Health Center, simply provide the patient with, ``Here's the card, here's the list of individuals that participate in the program in your community, and they will accept the card at any one of these facilities that you see.'' 
   That would also have the advantage of perhaps separating out, once again, some of that special interest stuff that tends to keep things as they are, to keep things from moving forward, to keep any meaningful progress from coming into any of the arenas and delivery of health care to low-income individuals, but particularly in this particular arena. 
   The other thing is I will tell you, as a practitioner of medicine, you look at some of the rules under which these facilities have to be set up, and it becomes very, very difficult to construct a business model that will actually be able to stay afloat, given some of the restrictions and regulations that are placed on these facilities. Again, if we would allow perhaps a little bit more of that hybrid-type system that you could have coexistence between a private facility and a government-paid program, providing each side was willing to behave by some mutually agreeable guidelines. 
   Well, providing truly affordable basic coverage to individuals in this country I think is a concept that insurance companies, I think is something they would want. I can't believe that an insurance company doesn't look at a figure like 47 million people who are uninsured and not say, ``that is a lot of market share I could have,'' if we would only allow them the ability to construct a policy that is affordable to the individuals who fall into that group. 
   Another concept, Mr. Speaker, and this is one that I have held for a long time, a lot of clinics, a lot of doctors, a lot of medical practices, a lot of hospitals simply donate their time and their efforts. Their actions are truly charitable. Well, maybe we could organize and provide a tax credit for those services that are truly charitable and donated. We could provide perhaps additional protection under the Federal Tort Claims Act, maybe a safe harbor from lawsuits, wherein good faith, charitable care is provided, and allow other providers to participate and fill the vacuum for indigent care. 
   Another area where this might be extremely useful is in times of national emergency, national crisis. Maybe if we had some type of emergency credentialing facility, and I know the CDC is looking into that, but if there were a way for a practitioner to precredential if there were a national emergency in their area, or they traveled to an area where the next Katrina hits so that they could be immediately credentialed within that area and begin to help provide that care. Again, also allow them some relief from liability under the Federal Tort Claims Act. 
   This could help fill the vacuum that exists sometimes in care. We don't want people to stay away from where actual help is needed in time of a national emergency. We don't want doctors and nurses to stay away from those areas for fear that, number one, they will be sent away because they are not credentialed, or, number two, out of fear that they might bring on some condition of liability that they would then have to defend for months, years, decades after. 
   The admonition of Ronald Reagan, ``trust but verify.'' Trust the market to make the correct decisions, but to the extent that some distortions are there, acknowledge that they are there. Sometimes there are going to have to be some protections that can only be provided by the Federal level. Some guidance for market principles will always be required, whether the system is public, private, or is a hybrid system. 
   Finally, as part of this discussion, there needs to be a rational breakdown. We always talk about the number of uninsured. As near as I can tell, this is a formulaic number that simply goes up by the addition of 2 million people every year. 
   I don't know that any of us really knows what is the makeup of this number. It is pretty hard to craft public policy to deal with the number of 45, 46 or 47 million uninsured when you don't know what makes up that population. Are some of these young individuals who are simply between college and their first job and haven't yet found it a wise investment or necessary to get insurance? Are part of these individuals who have serious long-term medical conditions who find medical coverage unavailable to them at any level, at any place? 
   Obviously, those are two very different populations. You can't craft a policy to help one that is not terribly distorted by the time it is applied to the other. We need to know what the makeup of that number is. So agencies like the Census Bureau need to do a better job for us as far as detailing and delineating what exists within the parameters of that large number that simply gets added to every year, and a lot of times you wonder if it is not just added to for political reasons. But, nevertheless, we need accurate data on who is encompassed within that population. 
   Finally, I will just leave this segment with a point of contrast. There are some people in this House who think it is a good idea to expand the culture of dependence, dependence on the State. There are other individuals in this Chamber who want to expand the number of individuals who can actually participate, direct and own their own health care. 
   Mr. Speaker, I don't have to tell you what side of that question I come down on. 
   Finally, Mr. Speaker, I want to talk just a little bit about, again, I said I was going to talk about health care in America. I have talked a lot about health care. Let's talk a little bit about America. Let's talk about American exceptionalism. 
   Mr. Speaker, the American health care system has no shortage of critics, here in this House, across the country, and certainly in foreign countries. But, Mr. Speaker, I would emphasize, it is the American system that stands at the forefront of innovation and new technology, precisely the types of systemwide changes that are going to be necessary to efficiently and effectively provide care for Americans for today and into the future. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, I don't normally read the New York Times, so please don't tell anyone in my district that I did. But last year, in fact just about a year ago, October 5, 2006, Tyler Cowen wrote, ``When it comes to medical innovation, the United States is the world's leader. In the past 10 years, for instance, 12 Nobel Prizes in medicine have gone to American-born scientists working in the United States, three have gone to foreign-born scientists working within the United States, and seven have gone to researchers outside of this country.'' 
   Remember, Mr. Speaker, when I first started this discussion I talked about the contributions of Sir Alexander Fleming, albeit an Englishman, but it was a lab in Peoria, Illinois, that developed the ability to mass-produce penicillin, and it was that ability that allowed the clinical trials to go forward. It was that ability that allowed penicillin to become part of our modern lexicon. 
   Percy Julian, again, an African American biochemist honored in this House during the last Congress. Remember, it was Percy Julian, he didn't invent cortisol, he wasn't the first to identify the compound, but he was the first to delineate a formula by which this compound could be mass-produced and available to much, much greater numbers of patients than would have ever been possible with the old animal  extraction method that had preceded it. All developed within and because of the United States. 
   Tyler Cowen goes on to point out that five of the six most important medical innovations of the past 25 years have been developed within and because of the American system. 
   Mr. Speaker, comparisons with other countries may, from time to time, be useful. It is important to remember that the American system is always reinventing itself and seeking improvement. But it is precisely because of the tension inherent in a hybrid system that creates this impetus for change. It drives the change. 
   A system that is fully funded by a payroll tax or some other policy has no reason to seek improvement, and, as a consequence, faces stagnation. Indeed, in such a system, if there becomes a need to control costs, that frequently is going to come at the expense of who? The provider. Precisely the person you need to stay involved in the system. 
   Mr. Speaker, I have got one final slide, and I ask your indulgence to let me put this up here. 
   This just shows the Medicare comparative payment updates for physicians, Medicare HMOs, hospitals and nursing homes. The years are delineated there in separate colors. 
   The year 2007, when the slide was developed, was in fact an estimate for physicians. The reality is this number actually came back to zero because of some changes we made right at the end of last year.     
   Under physicians, you don't see a number for 2006 again because that number in fact was zero for 2006. You stop and think about that, this reduction was planned but never happened, but physicians were held to a zero percent update for the past 2 years. 
   Mr. Speaker, what do you suppose the cost of delivering that care in a doctor's office, what do you suppose has happened to that over the last 2 years? Well, their electricity prices probably went down because they went down all over the country. Cost for gasoline to go to the office every morning probably went down because the cost of gasoline went down everywhere across the country. I don't think so. 
   The Medicare system is designated to reimburse at about 65 percent of cost under ideal conditions, but the reality is there has been significant erosion of that. This is important because hospitals, nursing homes, and to some degree the Medicare HMOs, their prices are adjusted every year based on essentially what is called the Medicare economic index. That is a cost-of-living formula. Only this group, the physicians, is under a separate formula that is somehow tied to changes in the gross domestic product. 
   The sustainable growth rate formula penalizes physicians and has the perverse incentive of driving doctors out of the practice of medicine. As was detailed to us by Alan Greenspan many months ago, there is only so long that can go on before ultimately you reach a place where it is going to be very, very difficult for the people who need the care to get the care. 
   Mr. Speaker, the United States is not Europe. American patients are accustomed to wide choices when it comes to hospitals, physicians and pharmaceuticals. It is precisely because our experience is unique and different from other countries, and this difference should be acknowledged and embraced, particularly when reform is contemplated in either the public or private health insurance programs in this country. 
   Mr. Speaker, one final point illustrated in a recent news story covered by a Canadian television broadcaster. It was about a Canadian member of Parliament who sought treatment for cancer in the United States. The story itself is not particularly unique, but the online comments that followed the story, I thought, were instructive. To be sure, a number of respondents felt it was unfair to draw any conclusion because, after all, this was an individual who was ill and seeking treatment and therefore deserving of our compassion, and I wouldn't argue that. 
   But one writer summed it up: ``She joins a lengthy list of Canadians who go to the United States to get treated. Unfortunately, the mythology that the state-run medicine is superior to that of the private sector takes precedent over the health of individual Canadians.'' 
   The comments of another individual: ``The story here isn't about who gets treatment in the United States. It is about a liberal politician that is part of a political party that espouses the Canadian public system and vowed to ensure that no private health care was ever going to usurp the current system. She is a member of Parliament for the party that has relentlessly attacked the conservatives for their `hidden agenda' to privatize health care. The irony and hypocrisy is that position supports the notion that the rich get health care and the rest of us wait in line, all because of liberal fear-mongering that does not allow for any real debate on the state of health care within the country of Canada.'' 
   One final note from the online postings: ``It has been sort of alluded to, but I hope everyone reading this story realizes we do have a two-tiered health care system. We have public care in Canada and for those with lots of cash, we have private care in the United States which is quicker and better.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, this is a discussion that will likely consume the better part of the next two years of public dialogue, certainly through the next Presidential election. The United States is at a crossroads. It is incumbent upon every one of us who believes that the involvement of both the public and the private sector is best for the delivery of health care in the United States of America. And it is incumbent upon us to stay educated and involved and committed. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have all got to be at the top of our game every single day. This is one of those rare instances where it is necessary to be prepared to win the debate, even though those of us on my side may lose when it is taken to a vote here in the House of Representatives. But if we adhere to principles, we may ultimately post a win for the health of the American people, and not just the American people today, but for generations to come. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (TAKING NEEDED ACTION ON ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, this Congress has placed a significant burden on American families. Now they are having to decide whether to buy food or gasoline. The price of both has increased significantly in the past 6 months.  
   Now back in my district they are having to defend themselves from opportunistic, gas-grabbing criminals. Thieves are actually posting Internet videos discussing how to steal gas from cars. The kind of information that used to be shared in the prison yard has made its way into the ``broadcast yourself'' genre of Web sites. It is shocking, but it is not really surprising, because we have ignored the issue of providing a supply of energy in this country. 
   Americans may have given up on waiting for the majority party to ease the pain at the pump, so Americans may just file this under ``desperate times call for desperate measures.'' 
   The Speaker may be able to ignore the Members who have asked for something to be done to address gas prices, primarily on the supply side. Eventually the consequences of the blatant disregard for rising prices is going to come home. Let's hope, let's hope, that this Speaker, this majority party, will take action before our families get robbed by thieves in the middle of the night. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I want to also thank and commend my friends for their discussion of the suburban agenda. I am coming to the floor tonight to talk about health care, and of course they've already covered a lot of those issues in their discussion that preceded in the past hour. 
   I want to talk about some concerns we have in the delivery of health care services throughout the country. The future of medical care in this country is going to be front and center over the next 18 months time. The elections of 2008 will be about a lot of things, but they will also be a lot about health care. 
   Three bills that I want to focus on this evening as well, H.R. 2583, H.R. 2584 and H.R. 2585. The first, H.R. 2583 deals with residency programs. The second, H.R. 2584 deals with loan forgiveness and tax abatements for medical students and newly minted doctors. And the third, H.R. 2585, deals with physicians in the Medicare program who are adversely affected by reimbursement reductions every year under a formula known as the sustainable growth rate formula. 
   Well, as we go through these next 18 months and deciding which avenue through which our health care system is going to go, we have two choices on the table. We've got a public sector, the government side, which already has about half of the responsibility for health care in this country. And we've got that which is comprised of the private sector, as well as that care which is just simply delivered without expectation of compensation, what used to be known as charitable care. 
   Under the option to expand the government's role, the government's side, the government's sector involvement in the delivery of health care, typically that's known as universal health care. In the 1990s we called that ``Hillary Care.'' 
   But could we also approach it from a standpoint of encouraging the private sector to stay involved and to improve their products and make them more flexible and user friendly in order to provide more for our health care dollar in this country. 
   My opinion, having worked in the system for well over 25 years, is the United States does have the best health care system in the world, and it is my obligation, my charge to help it remain the best health care system in the world. 
   Now, I know there's plenty of people in this body who would contest that statement. And there's plenty of issues around to call it into question. 
   My predecessor in this office, former Majority Leader Dick Armey used to be fond of saying, you know, the numbers don't lie; but if you torture them long enough, they'll admit to almost anything. 
   But let's talk about some of the different principles that are guiding the debate about public versus private and the delivery of health care services. And maybe we ought to spend a little time talking about the background. How did we get into this? How'd we get to where we are today? 
   You almost have to go back over 60 years to go back to the time coming out of World War II when the United States, of course, was the victor; came out of the war with a flourishing economy. 
   But during the war, President Roosevelt, in an effort to keep down trouble from inflation, put into effect rather stringent wage and price controls across the country. The employers wanted to keep employees, so a lot of employees, of course, had been drafted and were serving overseas, so those employees that were left the employers wanted to keep them working. But they were constrained. They couldn't offer raises. They couldn't offer the money that would be required; they were worried that someone across town might outbid them. 
   Well, they went and came upon the idea of providing a health care benefit, and, in fact, the Supreme Court ruled that that was okay; that that did not violate the spirit or the intent of the law that Franklin Roosevelt had passed governing the wage and price controls. So during the war, the concept of employer-based insurance was begun. 
   The war ended. The United States was blessed with the postwar economic boom that started, and what began as a necessity born out of a wartime economy continued. It was extremely popular. Health care insurance provided by the employer turned out to be one of the most popular employee benefits that has ever been seen in this country. And up until the early 1980s it just worked wonderfully. 
   Contrast that, of course, with Europe. Even the parts the Europe that were victorious in the Second World War, the battles were fought in their back yard. Their economies were devastated. They needed to quickly stand up a health care system that would take care of a population that had been deprived by 5 years of war or longer. And these countries decided to promote the single payer system that you see that's so prevalent in Western Europe and in England today. 
   But that was born of necessity also, because, again, the country's economies were devastated or, in fact, they had not been victorious in the war, they had lost the war, but they needed to quickly stand up a system that would take care of their citizens. 
   We go from 1945 to 1965. Presidency of another Texan, Lyndon Baines Johnson. During that time, President Johnson enacted the Medicare statute, a little over 40 years ago. The Medicare and the Medicaid programs were signed into law during his administration. These were large government-run programs that were created to focus primarily on hospital and physician care for elderly and basic health care services for the people who were this poverty. 
   Decades later, almost 40 years later, it was evident that the government-run Medicare program, extremely slow to change, very difficult to change a large government program; and anything that that caused any change within the program was going to be incredibly expensive. 
   Already difficult to operate. 
   But in 2003, in fact, my first year to serve in this Congress, my first State of the Union message that I heard the President deliver in this House, he talked about how the need for, or the time for a Medicare prescription drug benefit had arrived; and this was too important an issue to be left to another President or another Congress. It was work that we were going to take on that year, 2003, and get that benefit delivered to the American people. And indeed we did. 
   We worked on that bill in various committees throughout the year 2003. Right at the end of the year we passed the bill. There was initially a prescription drug discount card that was available, but over the next 2 years the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services put together the plan that we now know as the Medicare Part-D plan. And in spite of all of the problems that it had getting started, arguably it is one of the better functioning government-run health care programs ever seen to date. 
   But the government needed to catch up to a private system that was already focused on prevention, timely treatment of disease and disease management. So finally Congress put the Medicare prescription drug plan, that focused on giving seniors access go needed medications forward, and the program has been successful and provided benefits for seniors. It's come  with, obviously, considerable discussion, and a big push for success, a lot of it delivered by the private sector. 
   So here we sit at the crossroads today. Again, the government pays for half of the health care administered in the country with a current gross domestic product, the GDP of 11 to $12 trillion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for yielding. 
   Mr. Speaker, the speed of scientific investigation certainly exceeds that of the legislative process. Medical research, especially in the field of regenerative medicine, holds great promise, and it is our responsibility to strike an appropriate balance between that which is ethical and the promise that regenerative medicine holds. Science is resolving and providing answers to this ethical dilemma actually without the help of legislation from this Congress, but really through the hard work of dedicated medical researchers.     
   Yesterday, in an article published in the scientific periodical ``Nature,'' several teams of researchers have been able to make stem cells from a mouse skin cell, a mouse fibroblast, by genetically modifying it with a special technique that they have developed. 
   So here we have a stem cell that was created from a skin cell without destroying an embryo. These researchers have already shown success with mice by reprogramming mature cells to act like stem cells. This field of cell signaling is going to be very important in the field of regenerative medicine in the decades to come. 
   These researchers are also working to see how these reprogrammed cells may limit the growth of tumors, a problem identified when using human embryonic stem cells from destroyed embryos. 
   When we had this discussion last January, Dr. Anthony Atala from Wake Forest University and his Institute of Regenerative Medicine have found that stem cells derived from amniotic fluid, no harm to the baby, no harm to the fetus, cells derived from amniotic fluid have the same or similar characteristics of stem cells derived from embryos. He has been able to build on this research and regrow human organs, bladders in mice, in a handful of cases to do the same thing in humans. Because these stem cells are not from embryos but from the amniotic fluid or from the placenta, there is much less risk of tumors developing than there is in embryonic stem cells. Because these cells are not from embryos but from the amniotic fluid, there is no harm to the embryo. Over 40 cell lines are available in Dr. Atala's lab. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am extremely disappointed that we have brought this bill to the floor without a hearing in our committee. The science has moved tremendously. This is the same bill we debated 2 years ago on this House floor. Not a single committee hearing, not a single consideration of how the science has advanced in the past 2 years. That is a shame, and for that reason this bill should be defeated. We should go back to the committee and go through regular order.  
   Once again, we are debating a bill on the House floor which science has lapped multiple times. 
   We all agree that medical research, especially in the fields of regenerative medicine hold great promise, but our responsibility is to strike an appropriate balance between the ethical challenges of stem cell research and the promise that it holds. 
   Science is beginning to address this ethical dilemma without the help of legislation from this Congress, but through the hard work of hundreds of medical researchers. 
   I would like to call an article in the recent edition of Nature to the Speaker's attention. 
   Several teams of researchers have been able to make stem cells from a certain type of skin cell genetically modified with retroviruses, without destroying embryos. 
   These researchers have already shown success with mice by reprogramming mature cells to act like stem cells. 
   These researchers are also working to see how these reprogrammed cells may also limit he growth of tumors, a problem identified when using stem cells derived from destroyed embryos. 
   Dr. Anthony Atala, director of Wake Forest University's Institute of Regenerative Medicine, has also found that stem cells derived from amniotic fluid have the same or similar characteristics of stem cells derived from embryos. 
   He has been able to build on this research and re-grow bladders in mice and in a handful of cases do the same in humans. 
   Because these stem cells are not from embryos but from amniotic fluid or placenta, there is less risk of tumors. 
   Over 40 lines are available in Dr. Atala's lab already, and he has the ability to collect more of these very plastic cells in any birthing center. 
   In fact, I am disappointed that instead of considering a bill that actually does something, which I have cosponsored and introduced by Congressman LIPINSKI, is not before us in place of S. 5. 
   This bill would provide funding to bank amniotic and placental cells and make them available for research and at some point in the future for actual medical treatments. 
   This Congress and its leadership has missed an opportunity to hold hearings on this important field of medical research and bring something to the floor that would actually move the science forward. 
   Instead, we have before us today, an uninformed, morally objectionable bill designed to inflame political divisions when what America needs is a Federal medical research policy that moves forward in an ethical and responsible manner in real-time, adapting to the needs of science.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (THE DEMOCRAT ENERGY BILL -- (House of Representatives - September 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman from Indiana. It just strains credulity. I sit on the Subcommittee on Energy and Air Quality of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and it strains credulity that I come to the floor of the House tonight and find that this bill has been filed by the Rules Committee. 
   We have had tons of hearings over the last 18-20 months in our subcommittee, and fact is, we never got a chance to look at this bill in subcommittee. We never got a chance to mark it up in subcommittee or full committee. Why even bother having congressional committees, when this stuff is going to spring from whole cloth in the Speaker's Office? It makes no sense. 
   I need to say a word about refineries, because we have tried for the last 3 years since Hurricane Katrina roared ashore to get siting for new gasoline refineries in this country. 
   We passed an Energy Policy Act in August of 2005. It became obsolete in September when Hurricane Katrina came ashore. In October 2005, we as Republicans tried to pass legislation that would allow for siting of new refineries on closed military bases.     
   It's come up in various forms again and again over the last 3 years. Most recently, at the end of July, I tried to add an amendment onto the military construction appropriations bill, the only appropriations bill we have had in the Congress this year, and I was denied. I was told that the military service organizations wanted a clean bill. It was important to them to get this done quickly, but the bill had passed out of committee on May 24, and it was July 31 that we were hearing it here on the floor of the House. We had plenty of time to arrange these things and allow for amendments. 
   I would just have to add, if we want to talk about, for our members, the men and women of the military, we ought to be working too on the Department of Defense appropriations bill, because their pay raises are going to be in that bill. If we kick the can down to road to an omnibus bill at the end of the year, we are asking our men and women, who are serving, to protect us this very evening to delay receiving those benefits that they so richly deserve. 
   This bill is a travesty. I have been going through it here in the back here while we have been talking. You have credits in here to Freddie and Fannie, for crying out loud. Is that a good idea for with what we have just been through? 
   There are earmarks in this bill. There are very specific targeted pieces of legislation contained within this bill. This bill is not a good idea. We would fix those things in committee if we only had the chance. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (MOTION TO ADJOURN -- (House of Representatives - January 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the bill on the floor. Supporters of the bill claim that this will boost our energy independence, promote the use of renewable and alternative energy, but looking at this bill, you really cannot find anything that will help us accomplish those goals. 
   In fact, there are four provisions in this bill that will make us more, not less, dependent on foreign oil by making it more difficult and more expensive to produce the needed energy here in the United States. 
   The bill specifically disallows energy companies from receiving the domestic manufacturing tax deduction, thereby making it more expensive for them to do business in the United States and more likely that we will be buying our oil from someone outside this country. 
   Higher energy taxes will be passed on to the consumers in the form of higher gasoline and in the form of higher home energy prices. Similarly, heavy users of oil and natural gas, such as other manufacturers and agricultural producers, will feel the pinch of these higher prices. 
   Mr. Speaker, I just cannot help but note the irony that film makers will continue to be eligible for this manufacturing deduction, yet in my district I have not had a single constituent complain about our increasing dependence on foreign film. 
   The bill before us today would repeal the royalty incentives put in place under last Congress' Energy Policy Act of 2005 to encourage the energy production in hard-to-reach and technologically challenging places such as the ultra deepwater Gulf of Mexico and offshore Alaska. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Gulf of Mexico delivers more oil and more natural gas to United States markets than any other single source. Since approximately 97 percent of America's coasts are off limits for energy production, energy companies are forced to explore for and produce from increasingly difficult-to-reach places. 
   The incentives included in the energy bill we passed in August of 2005, which now would be repealed by the Democrats, encouraged production in the Gulf of Mexico that will help the Nation meet the production needs of the future. 
   It is important to note that unlike the 1998-1999 Clinton leases, under every provision in the energy bill, where royalty relief is granted, the Secretary of the Interior is granted the authority to set those price thresholds, to set those price triggers based upon market price. 
   Producers would not and do not receive royalty relief through the energy bill of 2005 under today's price climate. These provisions provide energy companies with some price certainty, a price floor that they need, that it is necessary to make to justify the billion dollar investments in America's energy. 
   The bill creates a new Strategic Energy Efficiency Renewables Reserve but does not specify how those funds would be used. Mr. Speaker, I strongly support the increased use of renewable and alternative energy. In fact, Texas has a strong State renewable energy portfolio and is the largest producer of wind energy in the United States, but before we cast our votes today let us be sure what we understand that the bill is for. It is for partisan advantage, not for the good of the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - April 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I come to the floor tonight to do what I often do, spend a little time talking about health care. The hour spent in this way, I think, delivers for the Speaker and other Members of the House perhaps perspectives on health care that you wouldn't hear in any other location. I've heard the hour that I spend down here talking about health care referred to as the ``House call.'' So perhaps that's a good way to look at it. 
   Madam Speaker, we have got a big job ahead of us here in this Congress and the next Congress. We are going to be talking about health care from all sorts of different perspectives. And really where we ought to be focusing our efforts, where we really ought to be channeling our efforts is delivering better care at a lower cost. And you know what? The good news is there are some examples out there in the real world. There are some examples in the real world that this House can embrace and expand upon and maybe accomplish this thing that we all want to accomplish, which is delivering more care to more people in our country at a better price. But we don't need to do it at the sacrifice of freedom because freedom is the foundation of life here in America. Without our liberty, we aren't America. So unlimited options, the unlimited opportunity that people have in this country, that's what makes this country great. 
   I always feel a little inadequate when I go into Starbucks because all I can do is order a cup of coffee. But other people go into Starbucks and are able to order from a wide variety of menu options. Who would have believed, when I was growing up, that there can be 57 different ways to spend your money in a coffee shop all to purchase a cup of coffee?     
   Madam Speaker, innovation goes hand in hand with the ability to make choices. The combinations that are available for all of us to choose from have, in fact, engendered that market, and the young folks of today wouldn't have it any other way. And I think that is exactly as it should be. The same kind of options, the same kind of inventive technology and the same kind of innovation should be what makes health care great, as well. 
   And, Madam Speaker, when it comes to innovation in health care, the United States is the world's leader in health care. Now in October of 2006, in the New York Times, no less, and please don't tell anyone back in my district that I read the New York Times, but in October of 2006 in the New York Times a piece by Tyler Cowen talked about just that issue. He talked about how 17 of the last 25 Nobel prizes in medicine have been awarded to American scientists. He talked about four of the six most significant breakthroughs in the last 25 years having been developed in the United States of America, things like the CAT scan, things like neuro treatments for hypertension, statins to lower cholesterol, coronary artery bypass surgery, all the product of the inventive American mind. And, as we all know, American scientists are not done with advances in medicine. And we are now counting on the next generation of doctors and scientists, a whole new generation, to produce whole new generations of breakthroughs, things like single gene therapy, advancements in protein science, and the incredible revolution in the way information is transmitted and handled. All of that is on the threshold. All of that is just over the horizon and going to have a significant impact on the delivery of health care in this country. 
   And these breakthroughs occurred because there was an environment that encouraged innovation, an environment that embraced innovation, and yes, an environment that sometimes tolerated a little bit of chaos because that, after all, drove some of that creative energy. And this environment is better known as a competitive environment and one based on individual choice. Innovation and choice are the hallmarks of our health care system. But it doesn't mean that we can't make a good thing better. 
   Now, Madam Speaker, as someone who has spent 25 years in the practice of medicine, I do believe I have a unique perspective on some of the issues that face our Nation's physician workforce, and certainly some of the  issues that face those of us in the House of Representatives here up on Capitol Hill. But I do have the unique perspective having lived in both worlds. I have had the pleasure, the opportunity and the high honor of sitting in an examination room and talking with a patient, being in the operating room or the emergency room or the delivery room with a patient. I have filed claims. I have filed claims with private insurance companies, Medicare and Medicaid, and dealt with the almost impossible bureaucratic nightmare that those claims have become, and also discovered that with the advent of electronic submissions for claims, some clever individuals delivered about 1,300 different codes for denying those claims. 
   I figured out how to build my business, sometimes in an environment that was quite hostile to small business. I figured out how to pay my employees, how to keep the lights on, how to provide health insurance for my employees. Sometimes I have the burden of being the only one in my committee, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Health Subcommittee, the only one who has had experience with the practice of medicine, the only one who has ever picked up a pen, written a prescription, looked a patient in the eye, counseled them for risks and benefits and costs, a significant burden to carry as we go through bills like the FDA Reauthorization bill that we went through this summer. 
   I have also had the benefit of some very good advisors along the way, some of my professors in Medical School, Jack Pritchard, who was the head of my residency program at Parkland Hospital, and my own mother, who told me, ``don't you ever let your office put me on hold on that telephone again. And further,'' she went on to say, ``don't let me ever hear that you refused to take a Medicare patient.'' And she never did have to hear that. 
   But what does this experience give me? Practical knowledge is absolutely critical when you delve into trying to craft the best public policy. And this practical experience is invaluable, especially in an environment that is as rapidly changing as our health care system and the focus of so many across the country. 
   Now, there is widespread recognition that there is some change in the air. You can scarcely turn on the television at night and not hear the word ``change'' mentioned over and over again. In fact, I told an audience of doctors the other day that I haven't heard the word ``change'' so many times since I was an intern in the newborn nursery at Parkland Hospital. There is a widespread recognition that change is coming in health care. There are a lot of different ideas on how to accomplish it. Presidential candidates have their ideas. A lot of Members of Congress have their ideas. And somehow we are all going to have to come together with these ideas to try to get the best policy going forward. 
   Now one of the things that has become absolutely apparent to me as I have spent a good deal of time studying this issue is that health care, not disease, but health care, the administration of health care, begins and ends with those who actually deliver the care. That means those that actually deliver the care, the doctors, the nurses, the technicians, really are the ones who should be on the front-lines leading that transformation in health care. A lot of health care professionals don't realize the critical role that they can play and, in fact, they must play in shaping the health care debate. If the professionals who work in health care, if the doctors and nurses are not active and engaged, they are going to be forced to play by the rules that someone in this House will set for them, someone in this House who may not have a clue as to what goes on in the day-to-day practice or administration of medicine. 
   So every chance I have, I meet with doctors, nurses, physical therapists, technicians, either here in Washington or my district back in Texas, listen to them about what their concerns are, try to understand the problems that they are having, problems that may have changed in the few short years since I left the clinics, and try to talk to them about how to not just complain about the problems of today, but how to craft the solutions of tomorrow and how to effectively communicate that to those who are policy makers, whether it be in a Federal agency or here in a legislative body. I am firmly convinced that if our health care professionals don't lead, we are going to have to accept the prescription given to us by those in the Federal agencies and those that may be sitting in the legislature this year, next year or the year after. 
   Now there is no sane person who would try to conduct their own operation. Most doctors, if they have controlling sense, wouldn't try to prepare their own income tax form. Doctors and nurses, health care professionals, need to be the ones to lead this change. And I will tell you something that just makes me stop dead in my tracks is when I hear people talk about a single payer government run system. It scares me to death. Now you stop and think, where is the largest 
   single payer government health care system in the world? And it is here in the United States. It is our Medicare and Medicaid program. This body, the United States House of Representatives, currently controls about 50 cents out of every dollar that is spent in health care in this country, and that is an enormous amount that is spent on health care, 15, 16, 17 percent of our gross domestic product, upwards of $2 trillion a year, 50 percent of that originates on the floor of this House of Representatives. So government already controls 50 percent of the market. When people talk about expanding that role, I have to stop and ask myself, well, are we doing a good job with what we are already controlling? And I don't think there is anyone who would stand up and say, yes, you are doing such a good job, we want to turn more of it over to you. 
   But government can play a role by encouraging coverage and helping create programs that people actually want and empowering them to choose between options. And really, we just have to go back a year or 2 or 3 to look at the experience with the part D part of the Medicare program signed into law late in 2003. The prescription benefit became available in January 2006, and now we are coming into the beginning of our third year of experience with that program. And sure, there were some bugs early on. But if you look at some of the numbers now, and probably 90 percent of eligible seniors now have some type of health care coverage, which is an incredible change from when I took office in 2003. Eighty percent are happy with the program. Well, those are numbers that I will just tell you controlling practitioner would love to have. 
   When we crafted that program, the smart people over at the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services put their sharpest pencils to the program and said, okay, here it is. We can devise a program that will provide coverage for seniors for $37 a month in premiums. 
   Well, now the average plan costs $24 a month. So what happened on the way to that $37 a month premium? Well, I will tell you what happened. The plans were opened up for competition and bidding. And guess what? The private sector found they could do things a little cheaper, faster and safer than those in the Federal agency. And I say more power to them. They have crafted different plans. Not everyone needs the same prescription drug plan. There is the ability to buy a prescription drug plan and change it once a year if your coverage needs change. It is a phenomenal tool to put at the hands of our seniors who are covered under Medicare. 
   Again, who is going to argue with something that delivers more health care, lower cost and better quality? It is just too simple to argue with. That is the type of program on which we need to be focused. But you hear so many people talking about, well, people won't do the right thing if you leave them to their own devices. You have to put a mandate on it. You have to put an individual mandate, or we have to put a State mandate, or we will have to put an employer mandate where we require people to take up this coverage; as opposed to creating programs that people actually want, pricing them in a reasonable range, making them available, and helping people understand the wisdom of taking up that coverage. 
   There are a variety of studies that have been done on mandates. Most recently there was one in Health Affairs  in November of 2007 looking at the experience and the history with mandates. I think the title of the article was ``Consider It Done'' because it was the opinion of the article that mandates would just simply have to be the next step. 
   But in this country, we have 50 percent of people with no health insurance and a voluntary program. Well, you say, we could do better with mandates, couldn't we? Well, for mandates to work, you have to have, of course, a widespread dissemination of knowledge that the mandate is required. You have to have widespread dissemination of the knowledge of the penalty for not taking up the good, service or product that has been mandated, and you have got to have a pretty strict enforcement mechanism, and people have to be aware that that enforcement is going to be swift, sure, and it is going to be painful when it happens. Well, where in real life in America today is there such a system? Hey, we are coming up on April 15. How about the Internal Revenue Service, for example? With the Internal Revenue Service, there is broad understanding throughout the population that you have to pay your taxes. There is a broad understanding of what will happen to you if you don't pay your taxes. Now there may be nuances, fine nuances to the Federal law, whether it is prison term or a fine, but people do understand there are a plethora of unpleasant circumstances for those who don't pay their taxes. 
   And what is the take-up rate, if you will, on this generous offer from the Internal Revenue Service? Well, it is about 85 percent. You have about 15 percent of people who don't comply, even with those relatively draconian and well-known practices within the IRS if you don't comply. So it does beg the question, if we simply go up there and say, you have to buy an individual insurance policy or there are going to be consequences to that behavior which will cost you, how do we know we are going to get up-take greater than the 85 percent up-take that we have today? And indeed, some of the experience early on with some of the States who have experimented with this have found that some people look at the cost of the insurance, and since it is now required, guess what? The cost went up because it is no longer a free market where you have a willing seller and a willing buyer. You have a buyer who is being coerced to buy that product, so the price goes up. And so some people look at that and say, that is pretty costly, I will just pay the fine, thank you very much. So then we are in a very difficult situation. We have someone paying a fine for not carrying health insurance. And if they get sick on top of it, then they are still a burden on the hospital, doctor, the State, whoever has to pick up the cost for that hospitalization. 
   So I would just urge my colleagues to be circumspect, to be careful when we talk about mandates and also look to the experience we had with Medicare part D where then a program was created that didn't exist before, and it was created in such a way as to put something out there that people actually wanted, put something out there that people actually saw as adding value to their health care coverage, put something up there that would be useful to people.     
   Not simply putting a requirement out there, a penalty if you don't comply, and then people are constantly gauging, well, would it be better just to pay the penalty and not comply and not have the more expensive health insurance, which I, after all, don't need, because I will never get sick. 
   So the part D program provides us a model that we could use when we are trying to see about developing those types of programs. And in a few minutes, let me cover with you some of the other models, some of the experience that has recently been gathered from the private sector, because I think that is useful to instruct, that is useful to inform this debate as well. 
   But the experience of part D in Medicare showed us that sometimes the best thing that government can do for health care is just simply get out of the way and let people, providers, third-party payers, work this out between themselves. If we create the right conditions, the right environment, the right set of circumstances and let the private sector develop the innovation, sometimes the cost savings can be substantial, the quality can be increased. And, after all, isn't that what we want, more care, better quality, lower cost? Who can be against those three things? 
   Now, Madam Speaker, I can remember a time when I was growing up that you could only have one kind of telephone. It was black, it was tethered to the wall and had a rotary dial. Over 10 or 15 or 20 years time we saw some technical innovation. It was still black, it was still tethered to the wall, but it had push buttons instead of a rotary dial. 
   Then came deregulation. Then came many phone companies that were able to compete on the open market, compete for the individual phone user's business. And the story tells itself, because nowadays you have cell phones on every belt buckle and hip pocket. You have text messages. You have a whole generation of young people who know how to text better than they know how to communicate with the king's English. 
   So change has come to this industry, not because the government said it would be a good idea for everyone to have a cell phone on their belt buckle or a cell phone in their hip pocket. It came about because industry, the private sector, was allowed to innovate, it was allowed to experiment, it was allowed to sometimes fail, and produce these products that people actually wanted and that deliver value, real value, to people's lives. 
   Many, many years ago I got a pilot's license. A lot of people learned to fly in a Piper Cub. The Piper Cub is truly a marvel of engineering science. But would anyone argue that the 737, the 787 that is new this year, would anyone argue that that is not a better way to move large numbers of people from one end of the country to another, rather than having each of us fly our own individual Piper Cub? 
   You know, you can't help but when you have this kind of discussion recognize that the invention of the Internet really changed a lot of things. Of course, now we have the Internet, we have e-mail, we have Web sites, we have YouTube, all of which were absolutely unimaginable as short as 20 years ago. 
   Here is the secret. Here is the secret to that success. The private sector, with its ability to tolerate innovation, with its ability to tolerate risk and reward, its ability to tolerate a little bit of experimentation, and, again, a little bit of chaos, can deliver that kind of value. I have personally experienced this in my years practicing medicine, and I have learned more about it since I have come here and worked legislatively. 
   Last fall, last November, I believe, there was a big health care symposium put on downtown by the periodical Health Affairs, and the morning panel was going to be four smart people. But one of them was a CEO of a large insurance company, an insurance company, quite honestly, that I had some trouble with when I was a practicing physician. So I thought, well, I want to go hear what Dr. McClellan has to say. I want to hear what Dr. Sarhuni from the National Institutes of Health has to say. But I will probably go for coffee when this CEO gets up to talk. But the CEO gave the most important part of the talk that morning. 
   This particular individual talked about running his large insurance company. He talked about his 45,000 employees, 15 percent of whom were devoted to the development of information technology. If that 15 percent had been a stand-alone software company, they would have been one of the largest in the United States of America. 
   Well, that is a pretty powerful notion. I stopped and did a little quick mental calculation of my own and I thought about my five or six physician practice back in Louisville, Texas. We were faced with the specter of Y2K and I had to upgrade my ancient and ailing computer system, and although at the time I thought it cost an incredible amount to do that, just doing a quick back-of-the-envelope calculation, I spent about .015 percent of my annual budget on information technology. So was it any wonder that that particular insurance company could run rings around a small practice when it came to the managing, the flow of information, the speed with which they could process information?  
   I was very intrigued by the fact that this individual said we have learned a lot about the progress of disease and the course of disease, not by studying clinical data, but by simply analyzing the financial data available to us within our information technology system. For example, if we see A and B, we are very likely going to see C, and of those patients who have C, some are going to go on to D, and D costs a lot of money. So we are far better off intervening at A or B and not having to buy as many Ds as we might otherwise have to buy. 
   He gave the example, and, of course, my practice was not in taking care of heart disease, but he gave the example of a middle-aged individual suffering a myocardial infarction or heart attack. He said we know from studying our data that this individual is very likely to suffer about a bout of significant depression somewhere along the line in their recovery, and in fact that bout of depression may be so significant that it precludes that individual complying with their exercise program, their cardiorehabilitative program, and very likely puts them at risk for a second cardiac event, or perhaps even consigning them to congestive heart failure in the future, which is terribly expensive to treat within and out of the hospital and lots of expensive medications. 
   So he found that by intervening early on with an aggressive assessment for depression, an aggressive treatment for depression, that they were in fact able to get better compliance in their rehabilitation, and ultimately lowered their cost at the out end because of this very aggressive management program that they had developed. 
   Again, that is all done with financial data. They were just beginning to be able to incorporate clinical data. They have got some problems with that because of some of the constraints, regulatory constraints that we here in Congress have put on them. But, nevertheless, it told a great story about the types of things that can be done in managing information in this brave new world, where so much information is available and so much can be assembled and analyzed at a very rapid rate. We are 
   coming up on a period of rapid learning unlike anything ever seen before in any branch of science, and certainly medicine is not going to be any stranger to that. 
   When I was in training in the 1970s, when I was in practice in the 1980s and 1990s and early 2000s, it was very difficult to encounter a patient late in pregnancy with an elevated blood pressure. You never knew whether this was going to go on to a much more serious condition or whether in fact this was simply a transient problem that would be self-limited and of no consequence, and you had to treat them all as if they were the most serious consequences, sometimes even requiring hospitalization for a period of observation until things got squared away. 
   There are tests that are just around the corner that will analyze for a couple of things in the bloodstream that have a very high predictive value as to whether or not someone will develop a condition called preeclampsia over the next 14 days. What a tremendously powerful tool to put in the hands of clinicians. And how many dollars is that going to save? It may well be an expensive test when it first comes out, but how many dollars is it going to save for unnecessary hospitalizations? 
   Sometimes we would have to take someone off from work, not knowing whether they had a more serious disease or whether this was going to be a benign self-limited event. But you just couldn't take a chance. You just couldn't take that risk of not counseling that patient to behave as if this was going to be the more serious of the two conditions. How great it will be for the next generation of doctors who practice my specialty of obstetrics to be able to have that test at their disposal so they can adequately counsel their patients, recommend to their patients the correct treatment course for them, and, in the process, not overtreat a large group of patients, and, very importantly, not undertreat a much smaller but potentially much more lethal condition in a smaller group of patients. 
   Yesterday up here on the Hill I was very fortunate to be able to host a panel with several speakers that included the former Speaker of our House, Newt Gingrich, who came up on the Hill to talk about change in health care reform and transformation in health care. 
   Everyone knows that former Speaker Gingrich is a real leader when it comes to health care transformation. In fact, he has made that now his life's work here in Washington. We are certainly grateful for, first off, for his service in the House, but we are very grateful that he has devoted his enthusiasm, his considerable energy, his considerable ability to generate new ideas and to recognize great ideas when they are presented to him. We are very fortunate to have his expertise in Washington. So it was really a great experience to have him involved in this panel yesterday. 
   Several companies came in. The whole premise of the seminar, the whole premise of the series, was, just as I started out this talk, better health, lower cost, examples from the real world. These were four individuals that came in and talked to us about real world experience and how they have been able to deliver their product, health care, in a more timely fashion, better quality, lower cost. 
   Let me share with you some of what I learned. It was a very action-packed hour-and-a-half that we had yesterday. But let me share with you just a little bit of what I have learned with talking to some of those innovative medical leaders. 
   One of the central themes that kept repeating itself over and over again was the issue of personal responsibility. It is important to have someone invested in the concept that it is a good idea to take care of their own health and to be personally invested in their own health care, and a lot of the discussion came around to a concept that is popularly called consumer-driven health care. We have talked about that a lot up here on the Hill. 
   The fact is that because of our third-payer system, so many people are actually anesthetized to the true cost of their health care. All they want to know is can they see the doctor when they need to, how big is the copay, and if I need an expensive test, well, is it covered by insurance? If is not, I don't want it. If it is, I will take two. 
   Now, my own staff tells me that when they receive an explanation of benefits, that little form, that little EOB form that you get from your insurance company after you have a medical event or an intersection with the health care system, whether it be doctor or hospital, most people take that explanation of benefits, it says on it ``this is not a bill,'' so what happens to it? It goes straight into the trash. They never look at it. They never try to assess what is or is not on it. So they are consuming the health care service, but not really are conscious as to the cost. As a consequence, there is little or no incentive for anyone to take any proactive stance on the health care that is delivered to them, the health care that is offered to them. There is very little incentive for someone to actually take an active role in that. 
   There is an old saying from P.J. O'Rourke, if you think health care is expensive now, just wait until it is free, and that is the concept. If it doesn't cost anything, then, again, yes, nothing but the best will do, and let's be sure we have plenty of it, and don't be too long about getting it to me. 
   In a consumer-driven health care system, people would be more conscious of their health care cost, more conscientious, and more likely to make wiser decisions about lifestyle choices, about things that they might do to alter a lifestyle choice, to be able to maintain their health. 
   There was a study take that was talked about yesterday that found that in one hospital group, the patients who were in a consumer-directed health care plan were twice as likely as patients in traditional plans to ask about the cost, and three times as likely to choose a less expensive treatment option. And this is just not for young healthy patients. Patients with chronic conditions, chronic disease states, were 20 percent more likely to follow the treatment regimen recommended to them, to follow that regimen much more carefully. 
   Now, there is no shortage of critics of consumer-directed health care up here on the Hill. People will argue that it will cause patients, consumers, perhaps those less wealthy, perhaps those less educated, to avoid needed and appropriate health care because of the cost  burden and the inability to make informed appropriate choices. 
   One of the companies yesterday that discussed this at the panel has data that they say directly contradicts that criticism. And I don't doubt that that is correct, because back in the late 1990s a comparison was done with a country that had a large component of what were then called medical savings accounts or consumer-directed health care, in contrast to the United States, which at that time had no high deductible consumer-directed health care options, no MSA options, and that was in a lead-up to the beginning of the MSA era in 1996 or 1997.     
   Experience with that country that had about a 50/50 mix of consumer directed plans and what might be called standard indemnity plans found that there was no dialing back on needed services. There was no pulling back on services that were critical for the maintenance of a person's health, but more optional types of treatments perhaps, were the ones that had a lower uptake. 
   Now, a Midwestern health care company introduced consumer-driven health care plans to its 8,600 employees. They also left their traditional PPO plan in place. 
   In the first year, 79 percent of their employees chose one of the four consumer-directed health care options. These health plans had several important features. 
   Preventive care is free. Now, what a concept. That means that the annual visit to the doctor, required screening exams, don't cost money. They are provided for you free of charge. 
   Employees also receive financial incentives to change behaviors like smoking or those who need to lose weight. They also receive financial incentives to manage chronic conditions like asthma and diabetes more carefully and become active participants in the management of their disease. 
   The results so far have shown that they had 7 percent of health care dollars spent on prevention compared to a national average that was about a third of that. 
   Nearly 40 percent of employees take an annual personal health risk assessment and earn $100 for their trouble. But a 40 percent uptake on an annual health risk assessment is a significant number. Five hundred employees have quit smoking, their employees have lost a total of 13,000 pounds through their weight management programs with appropriate monitoring, 13,000 pounds. Talk about your biggest loser or your biggest winner, clearly, that's a program that is paying off. 
   Now, the average claim increase of 5 1/2 or 5.1 percent the last 2 years is compared to a national trend of over 8 percent, so there has been a 3 percent savings on the average claim. The company has, again, collected an impressive amount of data, and we could learn from their example, from their experience. 
   There are some other companies we can learn from as well. There was another very large health insurance company that was on the panel. Then, again, it was a health insurance company with which I used to have some differences, but they described their incentive-based benefit design. They provide or have available to their employees one of the high deductible plans. A high deductible plan with a large deductible is going to cost less than a plan with a lower deductible. 
   They offer a plan with a high deductible. But without an increase in premium, the individuals, the families can lower that deductible to $1,000 by changing things like weight, smoking, serial cholesterol measurements complying with annual screening exams. 
   A $5,000 deductible at a lower policy rate then becomes a $1,000 deductible at the same rate. It's a significant cost savings for that patient or that family, that employee, where they get the benefits of a very high deductible plan but the deductible comes to them in a much more manageable size. 
   We also heard about some of the very positive results driven by consumer-driven health plan options. Now, the speaker who talked about that actually took me back a little bit, because I do remember back 1976 and 1977 the MSAs first became available. They were called the Archer Medical Savings Account after Bill Archer, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee from this body who had worked so hard on that over the years. 
   Phil Gramm, then a Senator from Texas over on the other side of the rotunda, had worked on that on the Senate side. As part of a large bill that was passed to increase insurance portability, they got a demonstration project, a pilot project that was going to allow 750,000 so-called high deductible policies or medical savings accounts to be sold. I heard about that, and I thought I don't know if I can sign up quickly enough to be in that first 750,000. 
   But the reality was I needn't have worried. There were so many restrictions placed on that insurance that the uptake was, in fact, probably only one-tenth of what were available. 
   There weren't many insurance companies that offered it. The premiums had to be paid for with after-tax dollars. Many of the things that we now think of as being associated with a health savings account just weren't available back in those early years. 
   But, still, although the amount that you could put away in a medical IRA or a medical savings account wasn't nearly as large as what you could do today, still, it was a significant amount of money. I purchased one of those myself back in 1976 or 1977, keeping it until I started service here in the House of Representatives, where at that time it wasn't available. 
   But that chunk of dollars has sat there, and with the time value of money, earning interest, compound interest, the miracle of compound interest, year over year now is a sizeable sum of money that is available to my wife and I for health care needs. Whether it be pre-Medicare or post-Medicare age, that money is still going to be available to us as additional cash that can be spent on health problems. 
   The doctor that talked to us about the nuances of the newer health savings account talked about how in his experience 88 percent, that's nearly nine out of ten account holders, carried a balance from 2006 to 2007. The actual percentage of people who either did not contribute or used up all the money that they had contributed to their medical IRA or their health savings account was only about one in 10, and the average balance for people across all income levels was $597 at the end of that carryover from year to year. 
   Now, you have to ask yourself how many Americans, how many families are encouraged to live a healthier life, conserve their health care dollars, like these individuals have done. These guys are making personal decisions about prevention, they are making personal decisions about life-style changes, they are managing chronic conditions, actively engaged in the management of those chronic conditions. As a consequence of those behaviors, they are holding down costs. 
   Now, most other populations with regular private indemnity insurance are not. The key is bringing about the necessary change to effect that transition from an individual who is really indifferent as to the cost of the expenditure on health care to one that is actively managing the cost of their health care. 
   But there are other tools we can put in the hands of people. We hear people talk about transparency. I have, in fact, introduced legislation dealing with transparency. 
   We have got some good things going on back home in my home State of Texas as far as some of the web-based transparency information and data that's out there as far as hospitals are concerned. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services has, in fact, published their own data up on the web. 
   So as more and more information is gathered, patients, individuals, can have access to greater and greater amounts of information detailing what is available to them as far as what if the difference between one hospital and another is substantial as far as the cost of rendering a particular service, regardless of what it is. But the ability to go on the Internet and be able to compare the cost of those two services, that's a tremendous tool to put into someone's hands. 
   If you can further refine that to allow an individual to put in information about their particular health insurance or their health plan, or if they are a self-pay, to make that information available, to then go on and compare between the institutions, where  would their best benefit be derived? Where can they most adequately get the type of care that they want and, of course, there does have to be quality data published alongside that. 
   It can't just simply be the cheapest care at the cheapest cost. You want the best care at the most reasonable cost, or, as Dr. McClellan, former administrator of Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services always talks about the four Rs, the right care for the right patient at the right time and the right price. 
   These are going to be critical aspects of any health care policy that we craft in this House. We simply have to keep those basic tenets in mind. 
   One of the speakers yesterday talked about in education the fundamentals of the three Rs, reading, writing and arithmetic. He went on to say in health care the fundamentals should be risk, responsibilities and reward, because, indeed, the risks are those that must be balanced against the possible benefit. 
   The patient needs to be an active participant in that. They can no longer simply be passive passengers on the journey through the health care system. They actually have to play a role in taking responsibility for their own care. The rewards, the reward aspect, the incentive aspect is often given. Well, while we are real good about being punitive in this body, we are pretty stingy when it comes to rewards or incentives. I could give you several examples of that. 
   One that comes to mind is the bill that was introduced late December as far as trying to encourage physicians for e-prescribing. The reward was a 1-percent increase in Medicare fees for a physician who participated in e-prescribing. The penalty 4 or 5 years later was a 10-percent reduction if they don't. 
   On a $100 procedure, and I will tell you there are not many office procedures under Medicare that pay $100, but let's use that number because it makes the math easy. In a $100 procedure administered in a physician's office if they utilize an e-prescribing module to administer that patient's care, they are going to get $1 extra for that $100 procedure or interaction, visit, whatever it was. That's okay, $1 is $1, and it's better than nothing. 
   But if you don't participate in 4 years time, 5 years time, that's going to be a 10-percent reduction. That same $100 procedure or test or interaction now will pay $90. 
   We are so focused on the punitive in this body, and we never focus on the front end of the problem, which is assigning the appropriate dollar amount or the appropriate incentive. 
   Now, go back to my earlier example of that large insurance company, and again an insurance company in the past which I have had great difficulty with, but what innovative thinking they have. They are offering a patient the ability to reduce from $5,000 to $1,000 their risk, their cost, on a deductible with no increase in premiums if they will do four simple things, lose a little weight, stop smoking, exercise regularly. 
   If you have asthma or diabetes you participate in a disease management program, and your deductible falls from a $5,000 deductible down to $1,000, and, oh, by the way, that premium that was less because you had a $5,000 deductible, it doesn't go up. It doesn't go up when that policy changed. That's the kind of innovative thinking I am talking about when I say we must balance the risk and rewards, because we haven't been good about doing that. 
   Everyone likes to quote the Rand study when they talk about information technology and programs like e-prescribing. The Rand study says that if we go to electronic prescribing in our health care system in this country, we are going to save $77 billion in 15 years, a tremendous amount of money. 
   Now, most of that savings is, in fact, out toward the end of that 15-year time. They don't really talk very much about who is going to pay for the cost of the implementation, putting the software, the hardware, the training, the upkeep of the software, the maintenance of the software, the time spent on the learning curve for all of these small offices across the country that have to make that investment. That's just going to be a given, but it will be worth while because we get a $77 billion savings at the end.     
   What is missed so often in this study is the last paragraph. At the end of a very large study, it talks about the incentives to make this happen, to get us to this happy place where we are saving $77 billion with e-prescribing. 
   The incentives have to be early. The late innovators are going to be rewarded, so you have to have the incentives arrive early, and they have to have a time limit otherwise people will wait and see if the technology doesn't improve because, after all, they know they will have to pay for the hardware, software, the training, the upkeep and maintenance of the software. 
   Finally, the third thing is the incentives must be substantial. And again, on both sides of the aisle, we forget that very important point. So while we hear the Rand study quoted over and over again, please remember the incentives are early, they are time limited, and they are substantial. That was the economic modeling that got them to the happy place where they were saving $77 billion in the 15th year of that study. 
   If we concentrate on the fundamentals, getting back to the fundamentals, focusing on the risk, talking to our patients about responsibility, that is not so hard to do; but we should obviously compensate the health care professional for their time, for counseling about that responsibility, so that we don't forget the reward for the provider, to be sure; for the patient, to be sure; for the taxpayer, the American taxpayer if it is on that 50 percent of every health care dollar that is spent in the largest single-payer, government-run health care system in the world, which is Medicare and Medicaid today. 
   So the right prescription for health professionals has to be focused on these three areas when it comes to providing the real direction for health care reform. 
   I know I am not alone when I say that I am going to use these principles as my guiding star as I continue to work on health care policy. I hope I can convince my colleagues both in committee and here in the House of Representatives to focus on those same issues as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - May 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor tonight to talk a little bit about the Nation's health care system, some of the challenges that face us and some of the successes that have happened in spite of the fact that they aren't generally noticed by the people who report on things. 
   Mr. Speaker, my career prior to coming to Congress was that of a physician. A lot of people will ask me how did we end up with the situation that we have, how did we end up with the system of health care that we have in this country? After all, Western Europe, we are not that much different from our Western European friends, and yet they have largely single-payer,  double-fund systems, and why is the American system so different? 
   Mr. Speaker, there are a lot of reasons for that, but at the risk of oversimplification, if we look back to the days when the country was involved in the Second World War, of course President Roosevelt at that time had put in place wage and price controls in order to keep down trouble from inflation. Employers who were anxious to keep their employees working, and there was competition for the workforce that remained behind and was not called off to fight, in order to keep that workforce employed and to keep that workforce interested in working, and not being able to expand wages like an employer might like to do, they offered benefits. 
   They actually sought an opinion, and the United States Supreme Court ruled that health insurance benefits could be provided and would be outside of the wage and price controls. And in fact, a tax advantage was given for employer-derived health insurance, and it made the program popular, not only during the war years but in the years immediately after the Second World War. 
   While this country was undergoing a significant economic expansion, this type of insurance policy remained in effect. 
   Now, contrast that with Europe, and even though some countries in Europe had emerged victorious, others were vanquished. Their backyard was the site where that war was fought. They faced significant humanitarian issues if they did not quickly stand up health care systems and other social systems in order to take care of their citizenry. So, it was an entirely different landscape presented to the people who represented constituents in this Congress during the war years and immediately thereafter. 
   I reference an article from Health Affairs from December 2006, just a few months ago, an article by Dr. Einthoven who's been a prolific writer. I don't always agree with him but a prolific writer on health issues, and he talked about employer-based health insurance past, present and future. 
   Talking about the past, the most familiar aspect of employment-based insurance past is its rapid growth in the first three decades after World War II, the relative stability that followed for about a decade. 
   And then he talks about the declining coverage that has occurred since the late 1980s, the exemption of employer payments for health insurance from employees' taxable income, combined with substantial efficiency advantages of group over individual insurance, fueled a rapid expansion. 
   And he goes on to cite that by the mid-1950s, 45 percent of the population had hospital insurance. Coverage increased to 77 percent by 1963, and coverage peaked sometime during the early 1980s and, as he points out, declined in the late 1980s. 
   Lest anyone think that I'm in complete agreement with the article, he does end up his piece that the most likely trajectory in the near term is continued erosion of employer-based health insurance. In the long term, we think that the likely and most desirable income is replacement of job-based insurance with some form of universal health insurance that encompasses choice competition. 
   Again, we may disagree with his conclusion, and I will go through during the course of this hour some of the reasons why I do disagree with that conclusion, there are a number of things that would need to be taken into account. 
   But other things that we need to consider with this balance of the hybrid system that we have, the public and private, we do need to talk a little bit about the uninsured in this country, what's happening with the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program, what's going to happen with the reauthorization of federally qualified health centers, a bill we took up last year but didn't complete before the end of the 109th Congress and will have to face again this year. 
   I'd like to talk a little bit about health savings accounts and some about association health plans. Of course, it is hard for me to talk about health care without addressing medical liability reform, and I do want to spend a few minutes on that in the hour that we have ahead of us. 
   One of the most pressing needs and one of the issues that is brought to my attention with increasing regularity is the whole issue of maintaining our physician workforce. We have a problem in the Medicare system as to how we reimburse physicians. So certainly physicians who are in practice are feeling that burden right now. We also have physicians in graduate education and young people who are perhaps thinking about whether or not they want to go into medicine as a career, and all of those aspects of the physician workforce I think require some of our attention. 
   Some of the things that the States are doing right now, things that are happening in Massachusetts, California, some recent developments in Illinois, indicate some of the efforts that are going on at the State level, and largely that's because of flexibility we provided to State governors when we passed the Deficit Reduction Act in December of 2005. 
   Other health care issues, if time permits, I'll try to get into. We talked a little bit about the trauma bill that was recently signed into law by President Bush 2 weeks ago, some aspects of transparency within the health care system, and how we are going to approach coverage for long-term care, particularly as the so-called baby boomers continue to move along in the demographic chain in this country. 
   Again, we talked about how we got this system that looks the way it does, the hybrid system that is a combination of both public and private systems. I referenced the activity that was going on right after the end of the Second World War. 
   Fast forward 20 years and a new system into effect in 1965 that was called the Medicare system primarily focused on coverage for hospitalization and some doctor services for elderly Americans. 
   In 1965, my dad was a doctor when Medicare came into being in 1965, and I used to tease him that in 1965 you only had two medicines, penicillin and cortisone, and you used those interchangeably. So it didn't really matter that you didn't have a prescription drug coverage when Medicare was first passed. I know he didn't think that was very funny either, but that is a discussion we have had on several occasions. 
   Now, 40 years later, 40 years after the enactment of Medicare, how different the world looks just from the standpoint of the pharmaceutical agents that are available in the physician's armamentarium to not only treat disease when it strikes but to prevent the disease from ever manifesting itself in the first place, for keeping that patient in the state of relatively good health and not coming in, sweeping in at the end stage when the disease has already struck and caused the heart attacks or caused some of the problems that happens with untreated or poorly controlled diabetes over a lifetime. 
   To be able to reach in and control those medical conditions on a chronic, ongoing basis ahead of time results in a reduction in the overall health expenditure for that particular disease for that particular individual, and you don't have to take my word for it. 
   The Medicare Trustees Report that came out about a week-and-a-half ago pointed out that in the year 2005 there were about 600,000 hospital beds that were not filled that were expected to be filled, and they were not filled because America's physicians are doing a better job of diagnosing conditions early and treating them early and keeping people out of the hospital when the full-blown effects of the disease might be manifest that in many cases can, in fact, be avoided all together.     
   So when we did the Medicare prescription drug plan back in 2003, it was a fairly lengthy and involved debate. I remember the President of the United States standing in this very Chamber during his State of the Union during 2003. Remarkable for me, because it was the first State of the Union that I got to see here as a new Member of Congress at the time. He said the issues facing Medicare are too important to be left to another President. The issues facing Medicare are too important to be left to another Congress. 
   So, this Congress, at that time the 108th Congress, was going to tackle the problem of providing prescription drug benefits to America's seniors. Heretofore, prior to that time, they had not been available. Arguably, there were  some ups and downs with that, but the fact is today more American seniors have more access to coverage than at any time in Medicare's history. The coverage that is available to them is certainly vast and extensive. 
   Generally there are at least two medications in every one of the six major disease categories. I know Administrator McClellan worked on that very diligently in the years between the time the Medicare bill was passed and the actual rollout of the Medicare prescription drug plan. But that was simply setting the stage for the debate that continues today. 
   Who is better suited, is it the public sector or the private sector? Who is better suited to handle the health care of this Nation? Now, currently, the Federal Government pays for roughly half of health care in this country. I know I am oversimplifying, but the numbers actually back me up on this, the gross domestic product last year was approximately $11 trillion, and we spent $1.4 trillion on health care. 
   The Health and Human Services budget for Medicare and Medicaid alone was in excess of $600 billion. Add the Federal expenditure for the VA system, for the Indian Health Service, the Federal prison system, and you can see we are quickly going to be at that mark. It is about half of the health care expenditures in this country. 
   The other half is broken down with a significant amount, the lion's share, being covered by people who have traditional insurance, commercial insurance, HMO coverage and all the things that we generally associate with insurance in the private market, and then smaller amounts would be attributable to individuals who simply pay for their care out of their pocket, and are uninsured, but are available to pay for their care. 
   There is no question that there is some care rendered in this country, no doubt about it, given by the good graces of either the hospital or the doctor involved, so-called charitable care or uncompensated care, which does account for a significant amount of the care given in this country. 
   Well, what is the best way, this tension between public and private. Should we expand the public sector? We are going to have that debate in a big way, probably in the months to come regarding the expansion of the public sector, the public side of health care. 
   Certainly we can look to Canada as an example of a country that has done, essentially done away with the private practice of medicine and put a publicly funded payment plan in place. But even the Canadian Supreme Court a few years ago said that, you know what, access to a waiting list is not the same thing as access to health care. They acknowledge some of the problems that exist in the system, some of the problems that exist within the Canadian system. 
   The British National Health Service, again, I go back to my comments earlier about the time during World War II and its immediate aftermath, the British National Health Insurance came on the scene earlier in the last century, and has evolved essentially into a two-tier system. You have patients who are taken care of in the National Health Service, to be certain, and everyone has coverage to the National Health Service. But, again, there may be issues with waiting times, there may be an issue to waiting to see the practitioner or the specialist that you wish to see. As a consequence, some of the most expensive health care available today is in the private system that exists, that coexists, with the British National Health Service. 
   Another aspect to that that is troubling to some people because of the wait. How long is it reasonable to ask someone to wait for an artificial hip replacement, for example? Certainly some of the studies done at the National Institutes of Health have shown that with today's minimally invasive surgery, and the in-joint replacement surgery, the savings to the economy are significant because of the minimization of the lost days of work, the lost productivity by a worker who is having a problem. 
   But, if you have to wait, as in some systems you do, if you have to wait 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, is that such a big deal; 6 months, going on a year? Well, I would submit that if a patient is in their 70s or 80s, that length of time is a significant electricity of time and, in fact, may increase the morbidity and, in fact, the mortality of people who are suffering from those types of diseases. So those systems are not inherently fair if someone is in their seventh or eighth decade of life, or they may not survive the wait for the care that is involved. So, expanding the private sector, is that the answer? I don't know if it's the entire answer, but it's certainly a big part of what must be the ultimate answer that we come to. 
   I would reference what has happened with medical savings accounts. They just turned 10 years old last year. The Kennedy-Kassebaum Act was passed in 1996. I was a practicing physician at the time with no thought of ever running for Congress, but I knew I wanted a medical health savings account as soon as I could get one. 
   In fact, 750,000 policies was the cap placed under the Kennedy-Kassebaum legislation. I was significantly concerned that I would not be able to get signed up for one before the cap was reached and no more were available. Turns out, I needn't have worried, because the cap was never fully prescribed because of some of the restrictions that were placed on the old medical savings accounts that were the original type of policy that was available. 
   In my home State of Texas, because of the restrictions placed on insurance carriers, only two carriers were really interested in providing what might be regarded as an account, a high deductible account, that could be coupled with a medical IRA or a medical savings account, which would continue to earn interest, be available to pay that high deductible if someone got sick, but in the event that it was not required to be used, would grow over time. 
   These were pretax dollars that were put away into the savings account, again, much like an IRA, but the only difference being that these dollars would be earmarked, and I realize that's a bad word, but these dollars would be sequestered only for paying for medical care. 
   Well, that changed in 2003 with the advent of the health savings accounts, as we passed the Medicare Modernization Act. Health savings accounts today are accounting for a significant number of policies, and I don't have the most recent statistics at hand, but 3- to 4 million policies that have now been obtained, and about 40 percent of the people who have a health savings 
   account today previously lacked health insurance coverage. 
   Now, one of the great things that I tell, particularly younger audiences, when I address them about health insurance, 1994, trying to buy a health insurance policy for someone who was not employed, someone who didn't get their insurance through their employer, just wanted to go out on their own and get a policy that would provide them coverage, if they needed it, and pay for it themselves. 
   Number one, they are paying for it with aftertax dollars, so that's a more expensive way to go about getting insurance, but the other thing was, in 1994, you couldn't get it at any price. It just was not available. I know this, because I attempted to buy a policy for a family member who was not working at the time, but I thought needed insurance coverage. 
   Well, fast forward by 10 years. A young American getting out of college today, 24, 25 years old, now not able to be carried on his parents' insurance any longer, wants to go into business for himself or herself, wants to be a entrepreneur, wants to take part in the American dream but also wants to do the responsible thing and have health insurance. That individual can go to the Internet, go to the search engine of choice and type in ``health savings account.'' 
   Very quickly, they will find a vast array of insurance products that are available to them at a high deductible, PPO product, may cost in the range, in my home State of Texas, for a male, age 25, nonsmoker, those premiums are going to be in the range of about $65 a month. It is eminently affordable for someone just getting out of college who wants to do the right thing and have that insurance coverage. Moreover, if they want to further do the right thing and save some money towards that high deductible, should they ever be called on to make that expenditure, those monies can go into  that account as pretax expense, and they will grow tax deferred over the life of the account. 
   Now, why is that significant? It's significant in that, correct, it's a high deductible policy. So if that person needs a flu shot, their insurance is not going to cover it. That is going to be contained within the deductible. Yes, they will, in all likelihood, either pay for it out of the money they have held in the health savings account, or they may just choose to pay for it out of pocket. 
   But, if they have a motorcycle accident some night and wind up with an evening in the emergency room, and 3 or 4 days in the intensive care unit, and face a hospital bill of $15- to $25,000, guess what, that bill is going to be covered. That is a significant difference from what was available in this country in 1994. 
   I would also reference the expansion of, well, you think, gosh, that high deductible policy, if you need anything more than a flu shot, who is going to want that because the cost of health insurance is so high, or the cost of health care is so high? 
   In today's Wall Street journal on the back page, the op ed page, there's an article about customer health care. One of the things it talks about is the growth of so-called minute clinics or urgent care centers. Quoting from the article now, written by Grace-Marie Turner, these new retail health clinics are opening in big box stores and local pharmacies around the country to treat common maladies at prices lower than a typical doctor's visit, and much lower than the emergency room, no appointment necessary, open daytime, open evenings, open weekends, most do take insurance. 
   Prices vary from services like from flu shots from $15- to $30 to care for allergies, poison ivy, pinkeye, $50- to $60 and tests for cholesterol, diabetes, less than $50. Competition is already starting to drive these prices down. 
   So there we have some good news. We have the health savings accounts, which are now available and sold on the Internet, and that competition has driven those premiums down, and we have the growth of people who are providing care for someone who is willing to pay for it out-of-pocket, whether they be someone who just wants to have the convenience of a walk-in clinic, or someone who perhaps has one of the consumer oriented products, one of the high deductible products, and wants to, is shopping around for that bargain in health care. Now there are other options available that weren't there before. 
   Other things to talk about within the private sector, association health plans, that's legislation that we have passed before in this House, both in the 108th and 109th Congress. Clearly, we need to take a look at that again in this Congress. 
   Association health plans allow groups of employers who have a similar business model to band together and buy insurance in the larger group market to take advantage of some of those economies of scale that may be gleaned by a larger employer, make those available to small businesses as well. Again, we have passed that legislation twice in the House of Representatives, in the 108th and 109th Congress, and something that we do need to consider taking up again this year. 
   When I talk about consumer oriented health care, when I talk about the health savings accounts or the growth in health savings accounts, one of the things that is so important for consumers, if they are going to be educated consumers, if they are going to make informed decisions about when and how they purchase their health care, we are going to have to make more information available to people to rationally make those decisions. 
   Information about cost, price and quality is going to have to be more generally available, and I recognize that there is a value in opacity, or it wouldn't have developed in the first place, but more information available to the health care consumer. In fact, in my home State of Texas, this recently has happened with hospital charges. 
   In all except for the smallest of hospital markets, an individual can go to a Web site, txpricepoint.org, and find out information about the hospitals in their area for given classes of hospital care, childbirth, for example, fixing a broken leg, for example, with or without complications, all listed there. Very quickly you can get information about how hospitals in the area compare and how the hospitals compare with other hospitals statewide that are of similar size and have a similar patient mix. 
   This is just the first step in providing that information. I recognize there is only so much that can be gained from looking at the overall hospital charge for a particular diagnosis, but as more information becomes available, and as more information is placed up and available on these Web sites, consumers are going to be able to make more informed choices about how they spend their health care funds. 
   One of the biggest problems ahead us and one of the biggest problems we have to tackle is the uninsured.     
   Currently the United States Census Bureau says that there are over 46 million people who lack health insurance in this country. And I know we can have the arguments about who is represented in that 46 million and that there are some people who lack insurance only during part of the year. But they're still counted toward the total number. But the reality is it is a significant number of Americans who lack health insurance. 
   As a physician, first, I will be the first to point out that having no insurance does not equate to having no access to health care because every physician can tell you about cases they've had where reimbursement either never arrived or they just simply did the case knowing that the person was uninsured and no reimbursement would be forthcoming. 
   But I think we also recognize that delivering care in that manner, it is not always delivered in the most timely of fashions, and you don't always get your best health outcome. 
   Now, one of the solutions that we will have to deal with in Congress is the reauthorization of the Children's Health Insurance Program. Again, that program is 10 years old and had a 10-year reauthorization requirement upon it. 
   It's not different from Medicaid. It's not an entitlement. It is a block grant to States to provide coverage for uninsured children within that State. It does provide flexibility for the States to determine standards and providing health care funding for those children who are not eligible for Medicare, but whose parents truly cannot afford health insurance. 
   The bill, when we work on that in committee, there are several things that I think are important that we do need to look at. One the problems of course we have run into with S-CHIP is that some States have found themselves in a shortfall situation. And one of the things that is troubling about the reason some States are in a shortfall situation is that they are covering adults and not just children. 
   Now, providing health care insurance or providing health insurance for children is less expensive than providing health insurance for adults because children obviously, are younger, they tend to be healthier, they tend to get better quicker. And although there are some illnesses that are particular to children, in general, the children's population in this country tends to be very healthy. And if you provide a modicum of health insurance and a modicum of prevention on top of that population, they are going to be even healthier still. 
   So States that cover adults as well as children, if a State is not covering all of the children that it could cover under its S-CHIP program, perhaps it's not a good idea to be covering adults, non-pregnant adults. Pregnancy should rightfully be covered under an S-CHIP program. 
   And, in fact, Mr. Speaker, there are four States that cover more adults than children. And I do hope we will look at this when we take up our S-CHIP reauthorization in our Energy and Commerce Committee, in the Subcommittee on Health, I certainly hope we will look at that. 
   One of the ongoing arguments with the Children's Health Insurance Program is, do we tend to drive out the private sector by the State taking on the burden of insurance children whose parents make too much money for Medicaid but not enough money to provide them health insurance.  
   If an individual has insurance through their employer, but they cannot afford the dependent coverage that the employer offers, and therefore don't take advantage of that dependent coverage that the employer offers, we should allow the flexibility for S-CHIP funds to be used to purchase that, or at least buy down the cost of that dependent coverage. We'll leverage our S-CHIP dollars so that they go so much further if we will do that. 
   Indeed, we heard testimony in a hearing the other day from an individual who said that as much as 10 percent of a State's S-CHIP funding may be used for so-called premium support. And if that is the case, I think we need to, but most States find that that is a program that is not well subscribed to. So we need to get that information out there. And if we need to make more dollars available for that type of premium support, then, indeed we should do that. 
   Now, that's not going to take care of all the problems within S-CHIP, but we certainly don't want to crowd the private sector out with a Federal program or a State program because there is value, I believe, in keeping the private sector involved and invested in providing health care for children. 
   A number of other things we could do during the authorization of that bill, it's a great opportunity to perhaps expand some of the health information technology that everyone talks about but no one ever seems to be able to get done, and the opportunity for providing some demonstration projects in, say, two or three States, a large State, a small State and one somewhere in between might provide us some of the background, some of the tools, some of the data that we need to be able to make rational decisions when it comes to health information technology, and to also get some of the advantages that's going to come from a well-functioning information system that provides almost instantaneous feedback on what things are working, what things aren't, where can we best spend our health care dollars so we maximize the return on the taxpayers' investment. 
   These are just a few things that I hope we'll take up when we have the opportunity to look at that bill in committee. It will be of necessity. That has to be reauthorized before the end of the fiscal year, and I feel certain that Congress will do that. 
   Federally qualified health centers I've already referenced. We did do the reauthorization last year, but that did not get completed before the end of the 109th Congress. I trust that we will take that up again this year. That is an important program that does provide a medical home and does provide an insurance equivalent to 15 million Americans. 15 million uninsured individuals actually have a medical home and continuity of care and identified provider through a federally qualified health center. 
   And one of the things that we talk about, relief of mandates on private insurance, one of the things that always gets my attention is that we seem to have so much difficulty when we sit down and talk. And we saw this last year in our Health Subcommittee. When a bill was put forward to allow insurance companies to sell insurance that didn't have all the mandates that some States will put on an insurance policy, and we had a dreadful fight about that one, it went late into the night. And a lot of hard feelings were expressed during the debate on that bill. 
   But the fact is, not in this Congress, not in the last Congress, but several years ago, Members of Congress came together and agreed on the types of benefits that should be covered in a basic package, and those benefits are the benefits that are mandated to be covered under a federally qualified health center. Any community that wants to petition for a federally qualified health center will have to show that they are going to provide at least this level of care for an identified number of illnesses or ailments. 
   And it seems to me, if we could extrapolate that experience from the federally qualified health center legislation that, again, is almost 35 years old, if we could extrapolate that cooperation that had to have been required to get that legislation up and moving over 3 decades ago, perhaps we could come together on the basic package of benefits that should be available in an insurance policy that's going to be sold in the private market. 
   I have trouble understanding that a private insurance company would not look at 46 million people as potentially market share if they had a product that people could afford to buy. And I do think that's one thing that this Congress does need to take up. 
   Health savings accounts I've already talked about. There are some additional improvements that we can make to health savings accounts, although they have been improved significantly in 2003 with the Medicare Modernization Act. 
   The HSA, the so-called flexible spending account or the health reimbursement arrangement that an employer may provide, a flexible spending account of course is money that an employee may sequester, pre-tax, and use that money on health care expenditures, but if they don't use it by the end of the year it goes away. It disappears, the so-called use it or lose it phenomenon. 
   Similar situation with the health reimbursement arrangement. If an employer is willing to provide additional dollars to take care of an employee's health care, why not allow those dollars, if they're not used at the end of the year, to become a part of that employee's health savings account, to become part of that medical IRA, to be able to grow over time? 
   We already heard the previous speaker reference Einstein's comment about the miracle of compound interest. And this is exactly the type of power that we could tap into if we were to be able to increase the amount of money that either the employee or the employer could put into that savings account that will be dedicated exclusively for that person's health expenditures. 
   Some of the other improvements that we could make in health savings accounts would be allow individuals to purchase their health savings account with pre-tax dollars. That would leverage so much more, the purchase of so much more insurance, even for someone in a relatively modest 15 or 20 percent tax bracket. They'd still be buying their insurance with 80-cent dollars, and that means that their insurance, that part of their budget that they allow for insurance, would go a great deal farther. 
   Perhaps we could allow early retirees to pay some of their continued premiums out of money they've saved in a health savings account. There is lots of flexibility that we could build into the program, and I believe that we've only just started to tap into the power that is available, the power that we can put in the health care consumers hands to be able to provide for themselves and their families with this type of insurance. 
   Again, I had a medical savings account when they first became available back in 1996. The reason I did it wasn't because I got to have an additional IRA, though that was a great benefit. But the main reason I did it was because it left me in charge of health care decisions. I didn't have to dial 1-800-California and talk to an HMO director somewhere. I was in charge of the expenditure of those medical dollars, and I made the decisions for myself and my family. And realistically, that is a lot of power that we should put back in the hands of the health care consumer. 
   Well, a lot of the things that we've talked about so far, about the public and private, the creative tension, if you will, that exists between the public and private aspects of providing for health care in this country. But one of the things that I've referenced before, and I think we do need to spend a few minutes on, is we've got to be careful we don't put the cart before the horse, because if we are not careful, this country could face a significant shortage or a significant crisis in manpower, in physicians, in nurses, in other health care providers, other people that we rely upon to give us the health care that we need when we need it. 
   We need to ensure that doctors in practice today, those at the peak of their clinical abilities, aren't driven out of the system by decisions that we make here in this Congress. And we need to make certain that the best and brightest that are in training programs now, and those that may be looking at going into medicine or nursing as a career, that we don't, because of our decisions in this Congress, that we don't drive them out of, we don't drive them away from their career goals.  
   Now, about a year and a half ago, Alan Greenspan, just before he retired as the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, was talking to a group of us one morning and talked about, someone asked him a question about the, being able to afford Medicare in the future. And he said, yes, he was concerned about that. But he felt certain that when the correct time came, Congress would deal with how to pay for Medicare. 
   He said, what concerned him more was, is there going to be anyone there to deliver the services when you want them. And those were words that really stuck with me, because I'm afraid if we don't take some steps to acknowledge and encourage the health care work force in this country, we may find we get to that point where a substantial number of baby boomers have retired and we face manpower shortages, and then it's going to be very difficult to deal with the situation. So I do encourage us in this Congress, just like the President said when he talked about Medicare. It's too important to wait for another Congress. We need to take up those issues in this Congress and deal with them. 
   Now, perhaps one of the most striking things that we have to deal with every year since I've come to Congress is in the Medicare system we get toward the end of the year, and physicians in part B of Medicare face a 5 percent pay reduction. And every year, they become very concerned about that. And every year, except 2002, we've come in at the last minute and done something to help. 
   Now, it may be nothing more than just holding off the cuts for that year, but we come in at the 11th hour and do something to help. 
   Last year, in an effort to prevent that from being an 11th hour decision, I introduced a bill, 5866, to do away with the formula under which physicians are paid. And not to go into too much detail, Mr. Speaker, but when you look at Medicare part A, part C and part D, hospitals, HMOs drug companies, each year get, if you will, a cost of living adjustment, a market basket update that increases the reimbursement for each of those three entities.     
   Physicians, for whatever reason, are treated differently, and there is a finite number of dollars allocated for the part B expenditure; and the more people who put claims in against that finite number of dollars, the thinner the slices of pie are that are ultimately distributed to the providers. 
   So Congress's attempt many years ago to control Medicare expenditures by controlling volume and intensity of services has created this system, which every year causes a significant amount of strife not only for Members of Congress, not only for practicing physicians, but just tension in general in the medical profession that, since Congress doesn't value the work that we do, maybe we ought not to work for Congress any longer. And I hear that frequently when addressing groups of physicians. And, of course, this time of year, Mr. Speaker, as you know there are a large number of physician groups through town. 
   So last year I introduced 5866 that said let's do away with the SGR; let's replace it with the Medicare economic index. That is not some formula that I was smart enough to think up. That is basically a market basket index, a cost-of-living update that would occur for expenditures under part B of Medicare. And this formula was worked out by the MED PAC folks many, many years ago. And a lot of physicians asked why we don't use the Medicare economic index. The main problem with going from the SGR to the Medicare economic index is it scores as an extremely high expense when the Congressional Budget Office looks at the bill and says this is how much it costs to do it. In fact, last year when I introduced 5866, the cost of going from an SGR formula to the Medicare economic index minus 1 percent was about $180 billion, and it was just a bridge too far, a hill too high, and we didn't get that done. 
   This year, for me, it is not just about looking at the Medicare payment problems but also looking at physicians at the beginning of their time in the workforce as well. 
   But getting the Medicare payment policy right has to be one of the main pillars, one of the main things that we do to effect reform that stabilizes the physician workforce. So paying doctors fairly will increase the career of many physicians who will either opt out of the Medicare system altogether or perhaps seek early retirement, or you never know. They might run for Congress. But principles of the bill that I am introducing this Congress will eliminate the SGR, but it is going to eliminate it in 2 years' time rather than this year. And I know that is a point of contention for a lot of people, but the reality is we are not allowed to look at dynamic scoring. 
   The Congressional Budget Office simply looks at a static model and tries to make predictions on the future with that static model, and by law we are not allowed to use dynamic scoring. And yet in the Medicare Trustees Report that I earlier referenced, 600,000 hospital beds were not filled in this country because of the things that doctors are doing in their offices, in their ambulatory surgery centers, in their outpatient imaging centers. These were dollars that were savings to part A; but, actually, the reimbursement for those was drawn from part B. So if we could somehow gather and collect and sequester those savings that are happening every day from part A and offsetting the cost of the ultimate repeal of the SGR formula, perhaps we could get to a number that would be much more workable. 
   Additionally, there is the audit enforcement that has increased lately. The Inspector General of Health and Human Services came and talked to our Oversight and Investigations Committee earlier this year, and they talked about the dollars that they were recovering in various areas of Medicare. These dollars that are recovered were stolen from part B; so these are not dollars that go to the Department of Justice or the Department of Health and Human Services in some other form. They go to part B to offset the expenditure for repealing the SGR. And I think if we will collect and allocate and sequester those funds and use those against the scoring for repealing the SGR, within 2 years' time we should have a significant dollar amount to be able to use to offset the expense of the SGR repeal. 
   Now, in the meantime, yes, it is necessary to protect physicians who are practicing against the cuts that are already programmed to happen in the SGR formula for 2008 and 2009, and I would propose voluntary reporting, voluntary health information technology upgrades, and if a doctor or medical group is willing to do that, they could achieve as much as a 6 percent bonus payment for those 2 years to offset the reduction in payment that would come about as a result of the SGR formula. But the reality is that if we don't put a premium on prevention, if we don't put a premium on timely treatment of disease, and if we continue to drive mature physicians out of the workforce, we are probably not going to get our best fiscal results with the Medicare program, not to mention our best medical results. 
   Well, what about the other aspects of the physician workforce? What about graduate medical education? And currently we know we are going to need more physicians in primary care, OB/GYN, pediatrics, those specialties that are devoted to treatment of aging individuals. And it only makes sense to increase the number of residencies, particularly in or near communities where the need is the highest. So high-need areas with high-need physician specialties is something that we could bring together and allow hospitals that haven't previously offered a residency program the ability to do that. 
   We know, for example, in Texas that a physician who trains is likely to practice within 100 miles of where that training occurred. We are losing Texas-educated medical students who are going to other parts of the country for their training and they are not coming back to Texas, and the same thing is happening in other States as well. In an effort to deal with that, if we were to allow medium-size hospitals to start up residency programs, provide some Federal grants and loans for these residency programs to start up, it would encourage physicians to be in practice in high-need specialties in medically underserved areas for those high-need specialties. 
   Now, further expanding that to the younger individual who is perhaps  thinking about a career in medicine, if we expanded the old health profession scholarship loan concept and provided loan forgiveness, provided tax forgiveness for individuals in medical school, in training, who are willing to go and serve after their training is complete in a medically underserved area in a high-needs specialty, and again, family practice, pediatrics, OB/GYN, and gerontology would be the specialties that immediately come to mind; so all three aspects, keeping the physician workforce of today involved and providing care to arguably that group of the population that is our most challenging, our senior citizens, providing help to physicians who are in training today, and providing some additional help for young people who are looking at medicine as a career but might be concerned about their ability to deal with the large number of dollars that they would owe at the end of that training, to provide some loan forgiveness and some tax incentives for these individuals to, indeed, practice in medically underserved areas in high-need specialties. 
   Well, I almost can't talk about reform in the Nation's health care system without at least talking briefly about medical liability reform. We have passed medical liability reform in both the 108th and 109th Congresses. We passed it, in fact, a couple of times in each Congress. And this medical liability reform, H.R. 5, that we passed in this Congress in my first months here, in March of 2003, was legislation that put a cap on noneconomic damages in medical liability lawsuits. Modeled after the 1975 Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act from California, this legislation was scored by the Congressional Budget Office as a savings of $15 billion over 5 years back in 2003 when this was first proposed by Congressman Greenwood of Pennsylvania. A savings, Mr. Speaker, and we held many hours to spend looking for savings that the Congressional Budget Office would allow us to credit against additional spending. Well, here was savings that we essentially just walked away from. 
   Now, in my home State of Texas, we passed a medical liability reform in 2003 for the State of Texas that has been enormously effective in keeping physicians in the State. Previously, physicians were leaving the State. Keeping insurance companies providing the coverage in state. We had gone from 17 insurers down to two the year I first ran for Congress in 2002. And now we are back up to 13 and 14. And, most importantly, those insurance companies that stayed and those that have come back to the State have done so without increasing their rates. And over all, Texas Medical Liability Trust, my last insurer of record before I left my practice at the end of 2002, has dropped their premiums for their medical liability insurance by 22 percent since this law was passed in September of 2003. And mind you Texas Medical Liability Trust in the State of Texas was increasing my premiums by 20 to 50 percent each year for the 3 years preceding 2003. So a real victory as far as providing some relief in medical liability premiums. 
   The real beneficiary of this law when it passed has been the smaller or the midsize community not-for-profit hospital, and these hospitals, largely self-insured, have now found millions of dollars that have come back to their bottom line that they are able to use to reinvest in capital expansion, to pay nurses' salaries, exactly the type of thing that you want your smaller community not-for-profit hospital to be doing. 
   So this is important legislation that passed in Texas. I have drafted legislation that essentially copies the Texas law. The Texas law was a little different from what we passed in this House that never got through the other body. The cap on noneconomic damages in the House-passed bill, H.R. 5 in 2003, was a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages. The Texas plan actually trifurcates the cap. There is a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages in regards to the physician, a $250,000 cap for noneconomic damages for the hospital, and an additional $250,000 cap for a second hospital or a nursing home if one is involved. So basing off the Texas plan, I think, could give us at least room for discussion about how we might provide some stability, some fairness in our medical justice system in this country.     
   Other things that we have talked about in our committee, we have had hearings on concepts like arbitration and mediation, the concept of an early offer, where a medical entity, be it a doctor or hospital, could make an early offer to an injured party or a family that would put the reimbursement or the cash in the hands of the person who is injured much more quickly. The current system that we have doesn't do a good job of delivering dollars to people who are injured. And the time it takes, average 8 years time, between the injury and the time of any payment or any settlement is further injury to the person who has already suffered something. 
   Now, we do need to look at how we structure reporting to the National Practitioner Data Bank if we were to have the concept of an early offer. But again, it's something we talked about and had testimony about in our Subcommittee on Health and I think is something that is worthwhile for us to consider. 
   One of the other things that I just want to bring up because it is so important, we passed the Deficit Reduction Act in December of 2005. A lot of stuff has been written about the Deficit Reduction Act, but one of the little noticed things about the Deficit Reduction Act was it did allow of State Governors a good deal more flexibility to do things within their State if they thought they had a plan that would provide more people with insurance coverage. And of course the prototype is the Massachusetts plan that has been talked about so much. And I recognize that there are plenty of things that you can talk about in Massachusetts that would not extrapolate to my home State of Texas, but still it is a significant feat where a Republican Governor working with a Democratic legislature and State senate could get this legislation through. Now, the proof is going to be in July, when the program actually takes effect and we will see how well it works. But you have also seen California and Governor Schwarzenegger talk about providing a similar sort of plan in his State. Jeb Bush, before he left office in the State of Florida, had additionally a plan for covering more people and providing people more coverage with the dollars that were being spent under the State's Medicare program; again, all because of the flexibility that was brought by the Deficit Reduction Act. 
   We recently saw in Illinois where a bold attempt at universal coverage did not pass the State legislature. And there I think the issue was largely because of the gross receipts tax and not so much the health care aspects. But nevertheless, many States are tentatively trying to see if there may be some system that works better in their State. Again, the one-size-fits-all philosophy may not be in the best interest of every citizen in every State. 
   The States taking the lead in crafting new approaches I think are reasonable attempts, and I think these are attempts that should be encouraged by this Congress and not discouraged by this Congress. 
   Mr. Speaker, I realize that the information that I've been talking about tonight, some of it is technical and complex, some of it is confusing, there are some topics that some people do not even want to think about, but we are in a debate this year, next year, the year after that will forever change how health care is delivered in this country. The decisions we make in this body over the next 12 months, 36 months time are going to affect the health care of our children, of our children's children. And it is important to talk about it, it is important to debate it and it is important to get it right. We must understand the things that are working in our system and the things that are not. Fix the things that are not, and encourage the things that are working. 
   The only way, I believe, is to keep the public private partnership that has developed in this country since the end of the Second World War, to keep that working for providing health care for the American people; plenty of places where it can be improved, and we are obligated to work on those improvements. But to simply scuttle the system because someone thinks they have a different idea, well, we saw what happened back in 1993, the enormous upheaval that happened in this country  where people really got concerned about whether or not their doctor would be there and able to see them if they got sick. We want to reassure the American people that, indeed, their doctor will be there, their hospital will be there. And keep the thriving private sector, keep the growing public sector and allow that creative tension that exists between the two to expand coverage for more Americans, and most importantly, so that we keep it affordable for our children, our children's children and into the future. 
   Mr. Speaker, it has been a long day. Many of us traveled today. And I appreciate your indulgence. I am going to yield back whatever time is remaining. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me time. I appreciate him letting me go out of order. I am not a member of his committee. But when my committee has time on Thursday night, I am hoping to be able to attend the memorial service for our comrade, CHARLES NORWOOD, whom we lost today. 
   Madam Speaker, I rise to speak against H. Con. Res. 63. I think it is a mistake. It is the first step of this new Congress, the first step this new Congress is going to make towards cutting off the funding for our troops. 
   You do not have to take my word for it. Yesterday's CQ Today, a magazine widely read up here in Washington, and I am quoting, ``It is a foot in the door toward limiting military involvement in Iraq. The Democrats want to do this by the Congressional power of the checkbook.'' 
   Further in the article it says, ``Democrats are well on their way toward planning more aggressive measures in an attempt to force redeployment beginning by blocking funding, and ending in the supplemental spending request. 
   And then finally, Democrats said, ``The resolution would just be a first step in the process that could result in a reduction or reconditioning of funds slated for our troops in Iraq.'' 
   Well, we do not have to go too very far back in our past to see the consequences of that type of action. When I was in Iraq in August of 2005 General Casey told myself and a group of us who were there that there is no group in the world that can stand up to the American military. In fact, the only organized body in the world capable of defeating the American military was the American Congress. 
   I believe he was right. The CRS has done a report for this Congress, a report for Congress about restrictions of military operations in Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Somalia and Kosovo, funding and non funding approaches. I reference particularly, I urge my colleagues, this is easy to download from the Internet on the CRS, simply type in Cooper-Church amendment, and you will get this well-researched product.     
   It details the Mansfield amendment, the Cooper/Church amendment of 1970 and 1973, the Cranston amendment, the McGovern/Hatfield amendment. It also talks about the funding for Somalia. In fact, in this House, in 1999, when President Clinton was President, a bipartisan group in this House came together to defeat a motion to block funding for the troops in Kosovo. So congressional actions regarding funding do have a real world impact. 
   And I would submit that much of the chaos that ensued after we left Vietnam, and I would include the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in that chaos, I would include the militant jihadist takeover of our Embassy in Iran in that chaos, much of that ensued because of congressional action that was taken on the floor of this House in cutting off funding for our troops. 
   And I am not a big one on process. I haven't been here that long. I don't know that I understand process all that well. But why in the world would we not allow a vote or even a motion to recommit on, say, Sam Johnson's bill, H.R. 511. Sam Johnson's bill, a simple two-page bill that details all of the fine things done by our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, and ends with this simple paragraph: Faithful support of Congress. Congress will not cut off or restrict funding for units and members in the Armed Forces that the Commander in Chief has deployed in harm's way. 
   Wow, that is pretty simple. I don't understand. I frankly, do not understand why this House could not vote on this simple measure submitted by my fellow Texan, Sam Johnson, a legitimate war hero in his own right. I simply do not understand why we wouldn't have an opportunity to vote on that bill or offer it as a motion to recommit before we vote on the resolution. 
   And the resolution itself, it is a shame that we weren't offered a chance to amend the bill, to amend the resolution, to perhaps make it better. I urge people to go on line and read it for themselves. It is only two lines. It is not a very heavy lift to read this particular piece of legislation. 
   Line 1, Congress and the American people will continue to support and protect Members of the United States Armed Forces who are serving or who have served bravely and honorably in Iraq. That is sentence one. Remarkable for what it leaves out. What about a comma, and who will serve? Would it be so wrong to include those individuals who will serve in whatever time is left in the country of Iraq, to include them in as being worthy of our support in Congress? 
   Line 2 is so vague as to almost defy description. Line 2 reads: Congress disapproves of the decision of President George W. Bush, announced on January 10, 2007, to deploy more than 20,000 additional troops. 
   Well, would 19,995 troops be okay? Would Congress then not cock an eyebrow to say we don't like that either? Well, what does that second statement actually, what point are we trying to make by that second statement, other than we don't support the Commander in Chief, we don't support the mission, and as a consequence, you do have to ask if we support the troops. 
   Now, we are all sent here in Congress, we are all elected by 600- to 700,000 people, back in our districts, back in our States, to make hard decisions. We are not sent here to read the polls, stick our fingers in the wind and then decide which direction to go. We are not sent here to shift tactics because we think we may become more  popular back home if we do that. I fully recognize that by voting against this resolution, I put myself in jeopardy of reelection, and I am willing to do that because I believe a vote for this resolution puts my country's fate in significant jeopardy for decades to come. 
   Now, I was not here when this House voted in October of 2002 to give the President the power he needed to deploy the troops. But I have always voted for funding for the troops. And I appreciate so much the chairman standing up here and offering his telephone number to any family who is concerned whether or not their loved one will have access to body armor in Iraq. 
   I remember those first hearings when I came here in March of 2003, we were instructed on how quickly our men and women in the field could get into their chemical suits. This was an object of great concern to everyone in this body. In fact, most of us sit on top of a chair which has a gas mask underneath it, just in case we need to leave this body in a hurry because of the deployment of chemical weapons. We were all concerned about chemical weapons back in 2003. 
   Now, I have made five trips to Iraq, and I know that what is reported on our television news services here in the States is not always accurately reflective of what is happening on the ground back in Iraq. I referenced Dr. Norwood a moment ago. My last trip to Iraq was in July of 2006. Dr. Norwood, Chairman Deal and I, and Gene Green from our Health Subcommittee went over to see the status of health care for our troops. I was very impressed with what I saw that day. 
   But, Madam Speaker, I think everyone in this body has to answer two fundamental questions on this resolution before us: Is it in our broad national interest to win this fight? The second question: Can we prevail? Can we provide a modicum of security in the country of Iraq? Can we provide a modicum of sovereignty in the country of Iraq? For me, the answer to those two questions is yes. Yes and yes. And I recognize that people of goodwill can disagree about these issues. But if your answer is no, and no, then please stand up, show some courage. 
   This is a nonbinding resolution, for crying out loud. Even a Democratic Presidential candidate said it is equivalent to standing in the corner and stomping your feet. 
   We have heard a lot about moral obligations tonight. Well, I would submit that we have a moral obligation that if we can't answer both of those questions in the affirmative, bring the troops home now. Don't wait till April. Don't wait till September. If we haven't the resolve to see this thing through, or if we no longer feel that it is in our broad national interest to continue this fight, why in the world would you ask any man or woman to continue to serve in that country under those conditions? 
   It is our moral obligation to ensure that our troops know our intentions and they know that we are going to provide continued support for them, and that continued support, whether it is bullets for their gun, whether it is the M-16, whether it is the Humvee, or whether it is reinforcements, we are going to continue to provide the things that the generals on the ground say they need for their men and women to get the job done. 
   When the President invited me down to the White House right before his Oval Office speech, he asked me what the constituents in my district would say. And I said, Mr. President, it is pretty clear. My constituents would say to you, if they were standing here today, fight the war or bring the boys home. 
   The rules of engagement sometimes, frankly, I don't understand. If we capture someone in Sadr City and we get a call from the Prime Minister's Office and we have got to take him back and let him go, that doesn't make sense, good sense, if you are fighting a war. 
   Well, it looks as if a lot of those restrictions have been removed. In fact, on the Drudge Report on Fox News earlier this evening they broke the story that Moqtada al-Sadr is now living is Iran. That is a good thing. That reflects the change in tactics on the ground brought to you by our men and women who are fighting for our freedom abroad. 
   Madam Speaker, I suggest that we commit together to support the future, the future support of our troops in the country of Iraq, or simply get them out of harm's way now. Again, Moqtada al-Sadr has fled to Iran. 
   I think we can prevail. I think it is in our broad national interest. I think the price of defeat is simply too steep, not just for us today, but for generations in the future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (THE GROWING AND DISTURBING TREND OF FOOD AND CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY RECALLS -- (House of Representatives - December 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I wanted to come to the floor tonight and discuss a growing problem that we seem to be seeing, a disturbing trend in food and consumer product safety recalls. 
   Mr. Speaker, the danger is very real. It has been widely documented, discussed in the media, in committee hearings, and around the water cooler at work. We have just come through a summer of recall after recall after recall after recall. 
   What is the upshot of this, Mr. Speaker? The upshot is that parents are afraid. Parents are afraid that their children are playing with lead-tainted toys. Parents are afraid that magnets in toys or charms may cause internal damage if a child accidentally swallows them. Families are afraid that the food they feed their pets may actually have little bits of plastic in it and poison their beloved pet. People are afraid that their toothpaste may contain antifreeze and poison them. People are afraid that the fish they serve to their families may have dangerous levels of antibiotics contained within them. 
   Mr. Speaker, I could go on and on about specific concerns, but generally people are afraid. They are afraid about the source of these products and dangers, and rightfully so. 
   Mr. Speaker, people are afraid about defective products being imported into our country, and it seems like almost all of those imports come from a single source, a single country, the People's Republic of China. 
   Consumers' health and well-being are being endangered on two fronts; in the food we eat and the goods we use. I want to use some time tonight to talk about both fronts and what we in Congress are doing, what we have done, and what we should be doing to protect American families from harmful products. 
   Let's first consider the issue of consumer product safety recalls. It seems like the Nation has also turned its attention to this issue. Every time you turn on the TV, every time you open up a newspaper, you learn about yet another consumer product safety recall. While people are concerned generally about the issue of recalls, many people, many people, myself included, are concerned with the source of the recall. Again, Mr. Speaker, I stress, it appears that the majority of recalled products originate in and from the People's Republic of China. 
   Now, I have signed up for e-mail notification for recalled products through the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission, and I seem to get almost daily e-mails announcing the latest recalls. And, yes, most of the recalled products were manufactured in China. 
   As a parent, as a physician, one recall that was announced last month was extremely disturbing. I am referring to the infamous recall that literally had a child's product, the Spin Master Aqua Dots, laced with the chemicals that are contained in the drug Rohypnol, the infamous date rape drug. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is an innocent enough looking product, an innocent enough looking toy, a little bit interesting. I bet if my daughters were still little, they would have loved this. However, while it may look innocent, this product is actually a wolf in sheep's clothing. 
   In the recall notification, and I encourage everyone to sign up for the recall notification at CPSC.Gov, the Consumer Product Safety Commission listed the injuries that these beads caused, these beads that were available just a few weeks ago on the shelf of any store that any of us could go to in our communities back home. 
   ``The Consumer Product Safety Commission has received two reports over the last several days of children swallowing Aqua Dots. A 20-month-old child swallowed several dozen beads. He became dizzy and vomited several times before slipping into a comatose state for a period of time.'' 
   Well, that is a pretty serious situation. A 20-months-old child? It doesn't say how long the comatose state lasted, but I submit to you any length of time that a 20-month-old child spends in a comatose state is alarming, frightening, disturbing and upsetting to the parents. And to think it was caused by a toy that they bought to amuse their child, well, it is almost unthinkable, unthinkable as a parent, that that could happen. 
   A second child also ingested some dots, vomited and slipped into a comatose state and was hospitalized for 5 days. 
   Mr. Speaker, according to a report on ABC News, quoting here, ``Scientists say a chemical coating on the beads, when ingested, metabolizes into the so-called date rape drug gamma hydroxy butyrate. When eaten, the compound, made from common and easily available ingredients, can induce unconsciousness, seizures, drowsiness, coma and death.'' 
   While it is not yet clear how the chemical wound up in the child's product, it is clear, it is very clear, where this product was manufactured. It was manufactured in the People's Republic of China. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, we are here working away trying to finish up our business, because Christmas is right around the corner, and with the Christmas season upon us, I cannot help but think there has to be a huge market in this country for something that not only doesn't say ``made in the People's Republic of China,'' but says ``made in America,'' ``made in America'' on the toy, on the goods that we buy. Wouldn't that be something? 
   I encourage retailers to stock as many ``made in America'' products as they can. Since the majority of products that are being recalled this year were made in China, this year, this year my family and I have made the personal decision to try not to buy anything with the ``made in China'' label. Given all of the circumstances, it seems like the right thing to do for my family. And I am certain that other American families have come to a very similar conclusion. You can't turn on the television at night without hearing Lou Dobbs talk about 
   this, and I bet his family is one of those families as well. 
   Mr. Speaker, let's look at just a few of the products that have been recalled, shall we? The concern about these imported products is real and it has been substantiated with real data. The United States Consumer Product Safety Commission, which is tasked with the job of trying to safeguard our society from unreasonable risk of injury and death associated with consumer products, informed me in that in fiscal year 2007 there were a record-breaking 472 consumer product safety recalls. Of the 472 recalls, more than 60 percent, over half, were manufactured in the People's Republic of China. 
   Mr. Speaker, more than 60 percent of all recalled products this past year were made in China. 
   Furthermore, of the 472 total consumer product recalls, 61 of those recalls affected our most innocent and vulnerable members of society, our children. Sixty-one consumer product recalls were toys. And how many of those products were manufactured in the People's Republic of China, you might ask? Well, Mr. Speaker, I am glad you did. That figure is even more staggering. In the United States, the Consumer Product Safety Commission estimated that over 90 percent of the toy recalls originated in the country of China. It is clearly now becoming a common business practice for Chinese toys. 
   So here is the question: Does the label ``made in China'' translate into ``this product may be hazardous to your health or to your child's health?'' Here they are, just a few of the products. This poster was actually made a little bit earlier, it was close to Halloween and you see some Halloween type motifs here, but products that any child would delight in owning. But these are products that have been found to be unsafe and recalls have been issued by the Consumer Product Safety Commission.  
   Well, let's look at a little bit more recent picture. How about today? Is that recent enough? December 11, 2007. From today's Wall Street Journal, ``China stands for quality'' was the title of the piece, and it had this cute little teddy bear cartoon associated with the article. 
   In the article, China's Vice Premier says some interesting things, and I would like to share some of those interesting things with you tonight, Mr. Speaker, and perhaps I will even offer an opinion or two about those claims. 
   First she says, ``The Chinese government takes product quality and food safety seriously.'' I say prove it. 
   She also states, quoting again, ``China has come a long way in strengthening product quality and food safety control supervision.'' I would tell you, I would submit that that country has not gone nearly far enough in this regard. 
   Here is the kicker, Mr. Speaker. She ends the piece by saying, and I am going to paraphrase here for brevity, China will live up to its responsibilities, but we would appreciate understanding, support and help from our trade partners. That is the end of the paraphrase. 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, with all due respect, with all due respect, we are past the point of understanding. Mr. Speaker, there are lives on the line. These are the lives of our friends, our neighbors, our children, our neighbors' children. It is time, it is time, Mr. Speaker, that we act, that we act in this Congress. 
   Mr. Speaker, I previously was a physician in my former life before coming to Congress 5 years ago, just a simple country doctor. But you have got to keep asking yourself over and over again, what can we do to protect ourselves and our families? For the safety of our families, we have to get to the bottom of what is the cause behind all of these recalls. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. I sit on four subcommittees that have conducted intense investigations on the issues of food and product safety matters. One subcommittee on which I serve, the Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over consumer product safety issues, has systematically investigated this issue this past fall. 
   We passed individual bills recently that have dealt with specific issues of consumer product safety concerns, including a bill that I amended in order to increase the safety of ornamental pools in our parks and public spaces in our cities. 
   The House Energy and Commerce Committee will be marking up bipartisan legislation later this week that will strengthen the consumer product safety system in this country. Mr. Speaker, the bill is H.R. 4040, for those keeping score at home, the Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act, and almost 80 other Members of this body have cosponsored the legislation, and I am an original cosponsor of the legislation as well. 
   It is an important piece of legislation, and it has, as promised, promised by our chairman of the subcommittee, it has come through the regular process. All Members have a chance to comment and, if they wish, to submit amendments, to try to make amendments to try to perfect this important bill. This, quite honestly, is the way we should formulate legislation. Not just in the Committee on Energy and Commerce, but in the whole House as well. I want to thank the leadership of the House Energy and Commerce Committee for being committed to the legislative process, because I think it has worked and served to make this a better bill as it has come through the process. 
   The version in the House is truly a bipartisan effort. I commend the chairman of the full committee, Chairman Dingell, and Ranking Member Barton, for their participation and leadership in getting the process to this point. 
   I would also like to commend the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission Acting Commissioner Chairwoman Nancy Nord for her honest assistance in trying to get a good bill through the committee. We asked for technical assistance and we asked for constructive criticism, and it was provided to us. 
   Mr. Speaker, in H.R. 4040, the Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act, the House was able to craft a comprehensive, commonsense bill that boosts the funding for the Consumer Product Safety Commission. It boasts their personnel. It bans lead in children's products. It requires third party testing. It increases the penalties for those that break the law. 
   H.R. 4040, again which has almost 80 bipartisan cosponsors, also has the support from consumer groups, industry, and in fact from the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The full committee, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, has realized finally that in order to protect our children, we have to work together.     
   We were able to put politics aside and do it in a very pragmatic, cooperative way. The House, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the consumer groups, and the industry all worked together to get this done. A lot has been reported about a bill in the Senate, but in reality it is because our House committee worked in such a cooperative manner with all of the stakeholders that we are now just perched on the very threshold, literally the eve, of passing H.R. 4040 through our committee. The Senate hasn't been able to do this, so the legislation may languish a bit longer, but I hope they take the lead from this inspired and bipartisan piece of legislation. 
   Now, both sides of the aisle, both sides of the dais in the committee had to compromise on several things, but I don't believe we ever compromised the safety of our children. I am an original cosponsor of the bill; I don't think it is a perfect bill. I have proposed amendments in the subcommittee process, and I am going to propose amendments when we mark the bill up later this week. For instance, I firmly believe that we have to improve the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission's ability to notify consumers and retailers about dangerous products more quickly and in a much broader scope. 
   During a hearing earlier this year with the chief executive officer of a large toy company in this country, I started wondering about some of the nonprofits in my district, people that do good work. They collect items for resale; they sell a large amount of resale items and collect money for other good works that they do. But I wondered, how do they find out about recalls? If the product is recalled, do they know it? Will they be able to remove it from their shelves so it doesn't then pass into the hands of some other unsuspecting consumer or child? And if they don't know about them, what can we do? What can we do in the United States Congress to make sure that they are indeed aware? 
   Well, after discussing this issue, I must tell you, I have got an outstanding nonprofit corporation in my district back in Denton County, back in north Texas, Christian Community Action. After talking about it with them, I became very concerned that there may be a large group of people and associations that are not receiving the information about product recalls in a timely manner. As we all know, products are recalled because they have been found to have some element of danger to the consumer, and they need to be immediately discarded or handled in some other way. 
   Nonprofits like the Salvation Army, Goodwill, and my own community Christian Community Action, and even smaller nonprofits that serve an even more specialized segment of the community, they provide many valuable resources. Often, these nonprofits run second-hand retail shops to additionally help some of the neediest members of society, certainly members of society that you really don't want a recalled product ending up in their hands. However, as I said before, I have been informed by some of the nonprofits in my district that, through no fault of their own, they are unaware of the recalls. And, therefore, the fear is that they may inadvertently sell a recalled product to a family or to an individual or to a child. 
   This gap had to be closed, and I was able to offer an amendment that subsequently was accepted and the amendment will help us close the gap. This happened in the subcommittee markup on the Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection Subcommittee. That  amendment makes it unequivocally clear that the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission must reach out and educate second-hand retailers, like Christian Community Action back home in my district, and must provide additional educational materials about the recalls. This new provision will help make our second-hand retail shops safer, and that makes our communities safer. It makes our children safer. 
   Now, I am pleased that the amendment was accepted, and I have also been working on other ideas. I want to talk about them just a little bit more in a moment. But I have also introduced legislation dealing with food imports, which basically will give the Food and Drug Administration a big red button to push to be able to stop a dangerous food or drug from entering the country. We see the little teddy bear coming down a conveyor belt there. Well, if we know that the teddy bear has got rohypnol in his running shoes or polonium in his paws or formaldehyde in his fur, we want to be able to stop this product from coming into the country. And this is something that I have become very concerned about. 
   I want to give similar authority to the Food and Drug Administration to give them a big red button to push to stop dangerous foods from entering the country. At a hearing that we had at the beginning of November, I asked Chairwoman Nord if she had the authority, that same authority for the Consumer Safety Commission that I was trying to give to the FDA, and she said no. 
   Therefore, over the past several weeks I have been working on trying to incorporate these same ideas into H.R. 4040, which, again, deals with consumer product safety. So this Thursday, when we do our markup in full committee on H.R. 4040, I will be offering two additional amendments at the full committee markup. 
   Right now, the current law lists five ways that an imported product can be refused admission into the United States. Now, I was somewhat chagrined to learn that the list did not include products that had been recalled. That seems just common sense. Do we ever need that stop button. We need to stop dangerous products from other countries from entering into our shores and certainly from entering into our stream of commerce. It seems to be common sense that products that have been found to be dangerous should be stopped at the border and denied entrance into this country; but, unfortunately, that is not always the case. 
   And think about that for a minute, Mr. Speaker. You have got a product that has been recalled because it has lead in some part of the product, but we don't stop it from coming into this country. What happens to all that stuff? It accumulates in a warehouse somewhere, presumably. Presumably it is not diverted into the stream of commerce at some point along the line. But even just aggregating a lead contaminated product in a warehouse somewhere means at some point someone has got to do something with it. They can't just keep paying rent on a warehouse for a product that is not moving and not going anywhere and not making them any money. This product is going to have to be destroyed. 
   Well, you can't bury it in a landfill because then you contaminate the groundwater. You can't burn it because then it goes in the air; we all breathe it. We know that is not a good thing for a lead-contaminated product. We need to stop that stuff from even coming into our country. 
   So I will be offering an amendment that would immediately add recalled products to the list of reasons as to why a product should be refused admission. I know it sounds simplistic and that is something that should already be done, but apparently that is not the case. 
   Unfortunately, while the leadership of the committee agrees that the stop button approach has much merit, to avoid possible violations of trade laws, and for the life of me I don't know why we would be concerned about that; it seems like someone is violating the trade laws on the other end. But the committee thinks, in order to avoid violations of trade laws, that we need to hold an additional hearing on this very subject on this idea before enactment. 
   I am going to offer the amendment when we mark up the bill on Thursday. Because of this concern, it likely will not be accepted. And I would like to get the understanding from the committee that we have got to go forward with this idea and enact legislation that will give the Federal Government a true measure, a true way to stop dangerous products from other countries, from coming into our country and hurting our families and our children. 
   Now, while this amendment may not be successful this run, I have been able to gather support from the committee on another and equally important amendment. As I mentioned before, right now, current law in the United States of America, there are five ways that a product can be refused admission into the United States. As I began my study of this section of the law, my first question was: If the Federal Government already has a law in place to stop harmful imported products from entering the United States of America, then why, why, why are we seeing recall after recall after recall, a record-breaking number of recalled products being manufactured and imported into this country? 
   The second question was: What types of inefficiencies are there in the laws that need to be remedied? 
   Well, after looking at a list of the five ways we could refuse admission of an imported product, two of the five ways immediately caught my attention. The law reads that a product can be refused admission if the product ``is or has been determined to be an imminently hazardous consumer product in a proceeding.'' 
   Now, what does that mean? Well, the law defines an imminently hazardous consumer product as a consumer product which presents imminent and unreasonable risk of death, serious illness, or severe personal injury. 
   I think it fits the bill. So the Federal Government already has a way to stop products from entering into America if they pose a risk of death, serious illness, or serious injury. 
   When I originally learned of this, I thought that this section of the law could and should keep Americans safe. But when I asked the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission how many times the law had actually been used, the answer was five times. Five times. Mr. Speaker, do you want to hazard a guess when 
   the last time this law was used? Let me give you a hint: Ronald Reagan was President of the United States. The year 1998 was the last time the law was used. 
   Realizing that this section posed an incredibly high bar in order for it to be used, especially since a proceeding had to be held prior to enforcement, I turned to the next way that a product could be denied admission. The law also reads that ``a product can be refused admission,'' and again quoting here, ``if it has a product defect which constitutes a substantial product hazard.'' 
   Again, what do they mean by that? The law defines a substantial product hazard as a product defect which, because of the pattern of the defect, the number of defective products distributed in commerce, and the severity of the risk or otherwise creates a substantial risk of injury to the public. 
   It seems to be a little bit lower bar, to me, so I thought surely, surely this section could be used to keep Americans safe. Well, I was wrong again. The United States Consumer Product Safety Commission did not have the exact number of times that this section had been used to deny admission of imported products, but the information I got back was that it was ``rarely used.'' Rarely used. Rarely used. Rarely used to protect Americans from dangerous products. 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, as a Member of Congress, if we see inefficiencies in the law, we have a duty to make changes, to make changes in the law to make it work, make it more efficient. 
   I don't pretend to have all of the answers to make this law more perfect, but I know that we must do something to increase the effectiveness of these provisions. Americans are relying on us. Americans are relying on their Members of Congress, on the United States Congress to do just that. Therefore, I will be offering an amendment to our bill when we mark it up on Thursday to H.R. 4040 that will require the United States Consumer Product  Safety Commission to study the effectiveness of these five ways to refuse admission of an imported product, especially the first two ways that I just went over: the Commission must report back to Congress on a specific strategy, including any new legislation needed to implement such a plan which will be used to increase the effectiveness of their ability to stop unsafe products from entering into the United States. 
   I have been informed that I have the support of the leadership of the committee on a bipartisan basis to allow this, what I consider a very vital amendment, very basic but vital amendment to go forward. We desperately need a way to stop defective products at our borders. The American public should know that these products will not come into this country. I want the American people to know that I for one am not going to stop working on this until we have the problem solved. 
   Let's move on from our friend the teddy bear. And just as a matter of public service, while we continue to work on legislation regarding consumer product safety, Mr. Speaker, I realize that I can't speak directly to people who might be watching on C-SPAN, whether they be Members of Congress or just ordinary Americans; but if I could speak to them in their living rooms, what I would want to say is I would encourage them to sign up for product recall alerts. It is easy, it is free, and it can save a life. If you have access, again, Mr. Speaker, if I were able to speak directly to people watching this on C-SPAN or Members watching in their office, I would say that if you have access to the Internet or if you have access to e-mail, all you need to do to receive these alerts is go to the Consumer Product Safety Commission's home page, which is www.cpsc.gov, and sign up for free recall and safety news. Again, the Web address, www.cpsc.gov, and you can sign up for the product alerts. I have done that. You get about an alert a day. It is a little disconcerting at first, but it is important information. And the Consumer Product Safety Commission also has a neighborhood safety network which is for organizations, for civic-minded individuals to help disseminate information about recalls, provide posters to members of society who may not be aware that the recall has happened and that the recall may affect products that they have in their home. 
   Mr. Speaker, we all know education can save lives. Unfortunately, though, certain groups of Americans, some of them elderly, some of them living in urban settings, some living in very rural settings, and I have got both in my district, some low-income families, minority groups, often don't hear about the safety messages from the government, and so we need additional ways of outreach.     
   Please, I would ask, Mr. Speaker, we ask our fellow Members of Congress to help make communities safer by getting the word out about product recalls. 
   I am a member of the Neighborhood Safety Network and we disseminate information about recalls via my Web site, www.house.gov/burgess. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have talked a lot about consumer product safety recalls. Let's talk about food safety. You think it is the same thing, but it is an entirely different process. We have had so much discussion about this that I feel people probably are asking is Congress doing anything, has Congress paid any attention to the safety of the food we eat? 
   The answer is, yes, we have paid a lot of attention. We haven't got a lot of press about it, but I am again a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and we are pursuing an active investigation and then subsequent legislation to confront the problem. As a member of the Oversight Investigation Subcommittee, we have taken an active role in investigating the safety of our Nation's food supply. 
   In August, our subcommittee sent a bipartisan group of investigators to China to see firsthand some of the causes of the problem. In the committee's staff report, the investigators came to the following conclusion from their trip and investigation thus far. Quoting directly from the staff report: 
   Number one, it would appear that the Chinese food safety supply chain does not meet international safety standards. It is, in fact, responsible for very serious domestic Chinese food poisoning outbreaks. It is happening in their own backyard. 
   Number two, findings of the bipartisan field investigators, the Chinese government appears to be determined to avoid embarrassing food safety outbreaks in export markets due to the damaging and potentially lasting effect this would have upon their ``Made in China'' branding. 
   Well, that is pretty powerful. In fact, Mr. Speaker, if I can digress for a moment, you almost wish if American importers and manufacturers had that same concern about what damage they may do to their individual brands by continuing to import, albeit inexpensive products, but products that aren't safe. 
   Americans want to feel safe. If it cost an extra $1 for a Barbie doll, I bet they are willing to fork that out. 
   Finding number three, the lack of meaningful regulation of farming and food processing in China and the advanced development of the document counterfeiting industry and the willingness of some entrepreneurs in both China and the United States to smuggle foodstuffs that do not meet quality standards necessitates a much more vigorous program of inspection and laboratory testing in China and the United States ports of entry than the Food and Drug Administration has been willing or able to provide to date. 
   Mr. Speaker, these are important conclusions and we simply cannot sit by and watch the problem worsen. We have to transform the Food and Drug Administration into an agency that can fully cope with the importation problems of the 21st century. 
   The Energy and Commerce Committee is doing our part. In addition to the staff trip to China, we have had five hearings to discuss the topic ``Can the Food and Drug Administration Commission Assure the Safety of the Nation's Food Supply?'' 
   What have we learned so far? At a hearing on July 17, 2007, on this very topic, former FDA Associate Commissioner William Hubbard testified that in 1999 the FDA drafted a legislative proposal which would have given the Food and Drug Administration authority to require foreign countries to take more responsibility for the foods that they send to the United States. The agency's proposal would have allowed the Food and Drug Administration to embargo a given food from a given country if there were repeated instances of that food being found contaminated when it arrived in the United States. 
   Countries that send safe food would have no reason to be concerned because they would be unaffected. But countries that demonstrated a pattern of disregard of United States safety standards would have to increase their oversight of food exported from their country. They would have to do it. Unfortunately, Congress did not accept this recommendation in 1999, and the situation with imported foods has gone from bad to worse to truly awful. 
   Now, Congress had a chance to examine the problem and consider recommendations on how to solve the problem, and that was back in 1999. The world was a different place, and it was perhaps difficult to anticipate the acceleration of foreign products that are coming into our country that occurred over the last decade or decade and a few years more. 
   Was the safety of food products from foreign countries not a priority for Congress back in 1999? And the answer to that question is not as much as it should have been. Why we have allowed this problem to persist when they know how much harm these unsafe products have potential to cause, I can't answer. We may never know the answer to that question. But as I stand here tonight, I will absolutely, absolutely assure you this is a priority of mine and I intend to do something about it. 
   Now, October 11 of this year, the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations had the third of a five-part series of hearings on the Food and Drug Administration's ability to ensure the safety and security of our Nation's food supply. According to testimony given by Mr. David Nelson, the senior investigator for the Energy and Commerce Committee, currently the Food and Drug Administration does not go over and see if the food products that are produced in China are done under the  same standards as here in the United States of America. These are the products that are produced in China and sent over here for our consumption. These are the products that Americans will be consuming, and they are not being produced under American standards. 
   When we had that hearing, Ranking Member Whitfield on the subcommittee asked Mr. Nelson if you were speaking to a group and a member of the audience asked how safe it is to consume products produced in China, he answered, You would be taking your chances on any imported food. 
   Mr. Speaker, that is a chance we simply can't afford to take. America has to have the authority to prohibit these foods from coming into our country if they are not safe. We have to have the ability to determine if they are produced according to our standards. We have to be able to stop foods that we would, according to Mr. Nelson, be taking our chances on. 
   Now, Chairman Dingell asked Mr. Nelson whether or not the Food and Drug Administration can protect the United States' citizens from unsafe imports with the resources the Food and Drug Administration currently has. Mr. Nelson's answer was, That would be an emphatic no. Just not just no, but an emphatic, underlined, bolded no. 
   When I got a chance to ask a question, I asked Mr. Nelson what did they do about food to eat while in China. He sort of laughed and sort of didn't laugh and said, Well, we ate what everyone else ate. And I asked how he was feeling, and he said, Just fine. But actually, some of the members of our committee staff did become ill when they were traveling in China. 
   Now, I was very interested in the protocol that they follow in China after discovering a contaminated supply of food, and the hearing we were having that day really concentrated on poultry and poultry products. 
   During my questioning of Mr. James Rice, the vice president and country manager of Tyson Foods in China, I asked what I thought was a fairly simple question. I said, When you find a problem, do you communicate that to, say, the United States authorities so they can be on the lookout for similar products in other facilities? 
   This was a little bit disturbing, Mr. Speaker. He said, No, we don't. 
   He explained to me, because Tyson was using local Chinese suppliers and the products are mostly for the Chinese market, they didn't feel that was necessary. So, in essence, there is no dialogue whatsoever. Mr. Rice told me if persistent problems from one supplier were identified, no one would alert others as to the presence of this problematic supplier. There is no system in place, no early warning system, no system of surveillance, not even any honor among thieves, it appears, to let people know about a bad supplier in their midst. 
   Mr. Speaker, that is a serious, serious problem. And it is so important, so important that I introduced legislation that relates to this 1999 proposal, H.R. 3967, the so-called Imported Food Safety Improvement Act of 2007, because I firmly believe the Food and Drug Administration needs the ability and the explicit authority to immediately stop dangerous foods and products from coming into this country. 
   And it is a pretty simple concept. Goods are coming into this country. If goods are coming into this country on a long conveyer belt and you find a bad apple on the belt, the Food and Drug Administration needs to be able to push a big red button that says ``stop'' and immediately stop that contaminated product from continuing on downstream into our stream of commerce. 
   My legislation would give the Food and Drug Administration that big red button to push. The idea is simple. If enacted, the Food and Drug Administration would have the authority to embargo a specific food from a specific country if there were repeated instances that that type of food or product had been contaminated. It seems so simple. We have got to be able to stop countries from sending harmful food products into the United States. 
   My bill, H.R. 3967, will allow us to finally take control of the food being sent to America. And this is important as well, Mr. Speaker. It sends a strong message to countries that in the past have played fast and loose with our regulations, that in the past have not seen a problem with continuing to send contaminated products into our country. 
   Well, we are going to tell them it is a new day and it is a different set of rules. You solve the problem on your end or we will end the problem over here. After summer of recall upon recall upon recall, it is time to take matters into our own hands, and I will no longer tolerate hearing a different news story every day of the week about a new and dangerous product coming into the United States of America from the People's Republic of China. China is sending these products to America and then they are being recalled. We can do a little better than that. 
   The Health Subcommittee of Energy and Commerce, of which I am also a member, had a legislative hearing on September 26 regarding Chairman Dingell's bill, H.R. 3610, the Food and Drug Import Safety Act of 2007. Having reviewed this legislation, I think the chairman's intentions are good, and obviously I look forward to working with the chairman on this issue. I cannot support every single provision in the bill, but I do support the spirit of the proposed law. 
   I believe we need to look toward how other Federal agencies have dealt with this issue and whether it would be appropriate to give the Food and Drug Administration similar authority or authorities. 
   According to the Government Accountability Office, 15 Federal agencies collectively administer 30 laws related to food safety. Do you think we are suffering a little bit from too much division of labor? 
   The Food and Drug Administration, which is part of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, and the Food Safety and Inspection Service, which is part of the United States Department of Agriculture, together comprise the majority of both the total funding and the total staffing for the government's food, safety and regulatory system. 
   However, food safety laws and regulations vary greatly from one agency to the other and not all foods are treated equally. For instance, the United States Department of Agriculture has jurisdiction over meat, poultry and eggs, and has established equivalency determination standards for those specified foods. 
   On October 11 at the third Oversight and Investigation hearing on the FDA's ability to assure the safety and security of our Nation's food supply, the Under Secretary for Food Safety at the United States Department of Agriculture, Dr. Richard Raymond, gave the following testimony and provided a definition for equivalency: ``Equivalency is the foundation of our system of imports. It recognizes that an exporting country can provide an appropriate level of food safety even if those measures are different from those applied here at home.     
   ``The Food Safety and Inspection Service has always required an assessment of foreign inspection systems before those nations can export into the United States of America. This prior review was mandated by our laws, which originally required that a foreign system be equal to our system before that foreign product can be admitted.'' 
   He further went on to state: ``An exporting country has the burden of proving that its system is equivalent to our own if that country wishes to export to the United States.'' 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, I understand in applying a system of equivalency to the Food and Drug Administration, which, in fairness, has an 80 percent jurisdiction over all food imported, as compared to 20 percent for the United States Department of Agriculture, I recognize that that system of equivalency for the Food and Drug Administration is going to be difficult. It's going to be onerous. Currently, only 33 countries are eligible to ship meat or poultry into the United States because of those very high standards established by that equivalency protocol. If the exact standard that the United States Department of Agriculture employs was used by the Food and Drug Administration, it would drastically change. Some people would even say it would cripple the food import system if there were not enough resources to support it.  
   Again, remember, the United States Department of Agriculture which has a system of equivalency, oversees 20 percent of the imports. The Food and Drug Administration, which does not have a system in place for inspecting sites in other countries, has jurisdiction over 80 percent of the food imports. You can begin to see some of the discrepancy there and the magnitude of the problem that faces us. 
   Mr. Speaker, the former Speaker of our House, Speaker Newt Gingrich, is famous for quoting in his second principle of transformation: ``Real change requires real change.'' This is just such a situation. This system needs to be drastically changed. 
   Consider this, Mr. Speaker: in 2005, nearly 15 percent of the overall United States food consumption was imported. Between 1996 and 2006, the amount of United States imports of agriculture and sea food products from all countries increased 42 percent. Furthermore, in the last decade the volume of Food and Drug Administration-regulated imports has tripled. 
   Chinese imports to the United States of America have increased more rapidly than the global average. And between the years 1996 to 2006, the volume of imports of Chinese agriculture and sea food products increased by 346 percent. China is now the third largest exporter of agricultural and sea food products to the United States of America, only surpassed by our neighbors to the north and south. 
   So perhaps our food import safety system should change. It needs to change drastically. The Food and Drug Administration was created at a time where we were still domestically growing and producing the majority of our own foods. And we've got some real issues here at home to deal with regarding our food regulatory system. But at least we have a regulatory system with which to deal with the problem. This is not the case for all countries from which we receive food. 
   It seems that it would be common sense that we would only import food from a country if they can prove that their system is just as good as ours. And yet only the United States Department of Agriculture can require this, which, once again, controls only 20 percent of the imported food. The Food and Drug Administration, which cannot control that issue of equivalency, is responsible for 80 percent of the food imports. It seems to be very arbitrary that the system that the United States Department of Agriculture can employ is so much tougher than the system employed by the Food and Drug Administration. Yet, at the end of the day, where does all that food end up? It's on your table, and it looks the same whether it's regulated by the United States Department of Agriculture or regulated by the Food and Drug Administration. Americans don't discriminate from which agency had the regulatory control over the food that was imported from other countries. And it's kind of curious that in Congress we make that distinction. Congress is responsible for these dual standards and Congress must have a candid discussion on whether or not we need to make these systems more comparable, if we need to establish the same system of safety for the Food and Drug Administration that we already have in place for the United States Department of Agriculture. 
   It is my goal to encourage this frank discussion at the committee level and here on the floor of the House, Members on both sides of the aisle. And we've both got to continue to have input on this important issue. As we all know, the system works best and we have the most effective legislative product if bills are allowed to go through the regular process. And I implore leadership to allow this important piece of legislation to go through that regular legislative process. 
   We've seen two instances this year on our Committee on Energy and Commerce with H.R. 4040, the bill that we're going to mark up on Thursday, being the second one. The first was when we reauthorized the prescription drug user fee and the medical device user fee for the Food and Drug Administration. That bill came through regular process. And I didn't like everything in the bill at the end of the process, but you know what? It was a good bill. And it passed the House and it passed the Senate and the President signed it into law at the end of September. 
   And for the first time we've got a robust, data-gathering capability within the Food and Drug Administration which the country has needed and has lacked for 40 years. We did this. This Congress did this, accomplished this by working together in a bipartisan fashion through regular order. We've got the same opportunity here on the Consumer Products Safety bill that's before the full committee on Thursday. 
   And the other side of the equation is, look what we've done with reauthorizing the State Children's Health Insurance Plan. Here's a bill that every one of us, when we stood in this Congress and we raised our right hand and we swore the oath and were sworn into Congress, every single one of us, man and woman, knew that the State Children's Health Insurance Program had an expiration date of September 30 of 2007. And what did we do? We languished; we didn't have hearings. We didn't have a markup in subcommittee. We crammed some great big obnoxious bill through the full committee, came to the House floor without even being discharged by our committee. The bill was so bad that the Senate wouldn't even touch it. Now that's a bad bill. 
   And then we got this process from the Senate; and instead of taking the Senate bill back to our committee and working on it and trying to improve it, we treated it as if it was a conference report, but everyone in Congress knew it wasn't a conference report. But it was brought to the floor like a conference report so you couldn't amend it, you couldn't change it, you couldn't try to make it better and it was rammed down our throats; and it was passed and the President vetoed it; and we sustained the veto, and then we're going to go through the same gyration again here this week. 
   And that's not necessary. We have a way of doing things right. We have a way of producing for the American people, if we'll just do it and put the politics aside for a little while. 
   Well, let's not allow the issue of protecting our families from harmful and dangerous goods coming from other countries also become the debate of Republican versus Democrat. That is something that I am certain holds residence in the minds of all of us working together to find the most efficient and the most effective method of solving this crisis now, making it a priority for everyone and getting the problem solved now and then moving on to other things. 
   Now, I would be remiss if I didn't also mention that last month the President's working group on import safety presented their proposal to both the President and to Congress. While I wish that the working group had been able to present their proposal somewhat earlier than they did, I do believe that they have presented many sound policies and that we should incorporate this while formulating our legislation. I, myself, am still reviewing the group's findings. 
   It is pretty voluminous, but I was pleased to read that they would also like to see a legislative proposal that would give the Food and Drug Administration additional authority for preventive controls for high-risk foods. If you'd like to read their proposal, it is available on the Internet at www.importsafety.gov. Import safety is all one word, all lower case. 
   Now, I know many people watching this are asking themselves, you know, is there a down side to all of this that we should consider. The answer is, yes. We've always got to be cautious about jumping over the line and encroaching the, increasing the ever expanding grasp of the Federal Government. 
   There's no doubt that the Federal Government has an important duty to the safety and welfare of all Americans, but the last thing you want is for the Federal Government to control absolutely every aspect of every little item that you buy. 
   There is a balancing test and I, for one, am going to continue to be cognizant of that fact. But there is also a very clear and present public safety danger that has to be dealt with. We must be vigilant in our plight in restoring safety and trust back to the foods we eat and the products that we use. I believe that H.R. 3967, the Food Import Safety Improvement Act, will further this goal, as will amendments that I'm going to make in H.R. 4040 later this week. 
   Compromising the safety of foods that we put on our tables is not an option. Compromising the consumer products that we buy for our families is not an option. Compromising the security of Americans will not be an option. Compromising cannot be an option that we turn to because we lack the power. H.R. 3967 and my amendments to H.R. 4040 will restore some of that power to Americans. 
   Mr. Speaker, again I started off this talk with the notion that when people are out shopping this Christmas season and they pick up something and they look at the underside of it and it says ``made in China,'' maybe that translates into ``use at your own risk.'' I do encourage consumers to beware, be aware of where the products are made, be careful about the products that you bring into your home. 
   Mr. Speaker, we can no longer sit back and allow these harmful products to reach our homes. All Americans, myself included, have a choice to take a stance individually and to not buy products if we don't think they're safe. And if you see ``made in China,'' remember, that's a warning label. But we can go a little further than that. Stricter rules are necessary. Funding, increased funding, increased personnel are necessary. And now it's up to Congress. It's up to Congress to create and enact those rules. 
   Mr. Speaker, you've been very indulgent, and I'm going to yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. We probably won't take the entire 60 minutes because it has been a long week and it's been a long year, but I did want to come to the floor of the House this evening and talk a little bit about health care and talk a little bit about some of the things that are going on in Medicare, some of the things that are going on in Medicare as it affects our Nation's physicians workforce, and what, perhaps, I see over the horizon for the next six to 12 months. It's going to be kind of an interesting year. It's an election year in this country, and that means we never want for drama during that time. 
   This is, of course, the special time of year at the end of the year where we all pause and kind of give a little thanks for living in the greatest country on the face of the Earth, the greatest country the world has ever known. We're blessed with many, many benefits from living in this country. Sometimes we take many of those for granted. Our health care is one of those benefits that I think we do take for granted, we overlook too often. 
   It is appropriate to perhaps have a little checkup on that little tiny segment of the health care market that is controlled by the Federal Government. Of course, I'm being factitious because the Federal Government has under its direct control and grasp probably close to 50 cents out of every health care dollar that is spent in this country. That is, 50 cents out of every health care dollar that is spent in this country originates right here on the floor of the House of Representatives when you configure or figure the expenditures on Medicare, Medicaid, the VA system, the Indian Health Service, the Federal prison system, the federally qualified health centers around the country, 50 cents out of every dollar starts here on the floor of the House. 
   But Medicare does have some operational problems with its physician workforce, it has some distributional problems. There are some areas that need attention in our Medicare system. And the problem, Mr. Speaker, is not just money. We've heard a lot of folks talking on my side, folks talking on the other side about the issue of money, but the issue is not just about money, although the money is extremely important. It's not just about money. It is the policies that we create here on the floor of this House and the rules that are written in the Federal agencies under our direction. It's the policies created in this House that actually lead to most of the direct problems in that part of health care that is paid for under the reach and grasp of the Federal Government. 
   Now, Medicare was created a little over 40 years ago, the mid-1960s. And it was created to make a connection between patients and their physicians, patients and their hospitals and places where they needed to go for care, care that was becoming very expensive, and for some of our seniors was care that perhaps would be out of their reach.     
   Now, Mr. Speaker, believe it or not, I was not in practice at the time Medicare was instituted. My dad was. And I remember very clearly when Medicare was started in this country and some of the concerns revolving around that. I don't think anyone would have really thought that we would have just done an appropriations bill where here some 43 years later after the enactment of Medicare, I don't know what the total line expenditure for Medicare was, but it is topping $300 billion for a year in Medicare. You add the expenses of Medicaid to that, and the two together with what is spent at the Federal level and what is spent at the State level when you involve Medicaid and we are well over $6 billion a year for what we pay for that. So, again, it is really not so much a question of money. It is a question of policy. 
   But the lifeline that was created between seniors and their doctors, seniors and their hospitals, that lifeline that has been depended upon by really two generations of Americans now, almost two generations of Americans, that lifeline is frayed. Almost every day there is a little nick, a little cut. It is death by a thousand scalpels, if you will, since we are talking about health care. And it is that constant nicking, it is that constant pressure on that lifeline that is causing the lifeline to fray for many individuals. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, I have said on the floor of this House before and it bears repeating tonight, Alan Greenspan, the former Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, when he left his office as chairman just a little less than 2 years ago through one of his sort of exit speeches when he came through to talk to various groups, one of the things when he came to talk to a group of us one morning back in January of 2005, I think it was, and talked about the, well, he was asked about the cost of Medicare, how in the world is Congress ever going to keep up with the ever increasing cost of Medicare; how is Congress going to deal with what is basically an unfunded obligation going into the future. And the Chairman thought about it for a moment, and as always he is very careful about what he says. He said, I think when the time comes Congress will find the courage to do what is necessary to keep the Medicare system up and running. He said, what concerns me more is will there be anyone there to deliver the services when you require them? 
   Because, Mr. Speaker, January 1 of 2008 will be the year the first baby boomers reach the magic age of 62. They begin entering their retirement period, their retirement time; and as a consequence, we are going to see a lot of pressure put, not just on the Medicare system but on the Social Security system, on our system of long-term care, which is basically the Medicaid system under the current construction. 
   So there is going to be a lot of pressure put on those Federal programs as more and more people of my generation reach retirement age and again to seek and ask for and collect those benefits that they believe that they have been paying into over time. 
   But what happens if the supply-demand equation in regards to America's physician workforce, and nurses too for that matter, but what if the law of supply and demand has been drastically skewed so that there is not the supply, we are not keeping up with the supply of doctors and health professionals who are going to be required to take care of those patients as they enter their retirement years? 
   At the risk of getting too technical, let me just share a few facts. Mr. Speaker, I am sensitive to the fact that I must only address the Chair and not address people who are here on the House floor with us, Members who might be watching from their offices. I know I am not supposed to direct my comments to people who might be watching on C-SPAN so I will confine my remarks solely to the Chair and, Mr. Speaker, this is a poster that I have used in the past, and many people have seen this poster used on the floor of this House. This is a cover from the periodical put out by the Texas Medical Association. Every year they come out with a publication called Texas Medicine. And this is from March of this past year, March of 2007. And the title article was, ``Running Out of Doctors.'' It is a concern, certainly a concern of my professional organization, the Texas Medical Association back in Texas. And it is a concern, I think, or  should be a concern for many of us here in this Congress. 
   Again, it was a concern of Mr. Greenspan's 2 years ago when he came and talked to a group of us. And, in fact, Mr. Speaker, I asked Mr. Greenspan again when he came back to visit with us just a few months ago, I said, I often quote that statement that you made to me about is there going to be anyone there to take care of the patients in the future, and do you still feel that way, Mr. Chairman? And he said, Not only do I still feel that way, I feel stronger about it today than I did a few years ago. So this is a very relevant point and something that certainly we need to keep in mind. 
   Now, one of the things that is still up to be done, one of the things that is still on our to-do list here on the House side before we do finally draw this year to a merciful close is we do have to address, basically, what Medicare pays doctors. For whatever reason, we have to deal with that every year, and we don't always do a good job. Certainly when my side was in charge, we didn't always do a good job, and this year I think that performance is being repeated, and perhaps it is even a little bit worse this year. 
   The fact of the matter is that if Congress doesn't do something before December 31 of every year, there is a scheduled series of payment reductions that physicians will experience as a consequence of the formula under which they are paid under Medicare. It is not a problem that is unique to this Congress. It has been going on for years. It has been going on through several administrations. It is a problem brought to us by a formula called the sustainable growth rate formula which is how physicians are paid under Medicare. 
   Now, it is different for hospitals, it is different for HMOs, it is different for drug companies. Those expenditures are subject to essentially a cost-of-living adjustment every year. So every year there is perhaps a little bit of an uptick in what the hospitals receive, kind of a what is called a market basket update where the cost of inputs, the cost of delivering the care is figured into what Medicare reimburses a hospital. 
   So part A of Medicare, which is the hospital payment, funded out of payroll deductions, part A of Medicare, the hospitals do receive a little bit, it is not terribly generous, but they do receive a little bit of an uptick every year. For part C of Medicare, which is the Medicare HMOs, they are perhaps even a little more generous than the hospitals. They get a little positive update so they can continue to meet the obligations that they have in taking care of our Medicare patients. We are asking the HMOs to provide that care. We are asking the hospitals; in fact, we are asking the doctors. Congress asks them to provide the care so hospitals, HMOs and now drug companies receive a little bit of an additional payment every year under the current formula structure. 
   But for whatever reasons, physicians have been calculated differently. And the physician rate of compensation for Medicare patients is based upon something that has a little bit to do with the gross domestic product and the idea that we are only going to be able to control the expenditure on volume and intensity of Medicare services if we really ratchet down what we pay doctors year over year. But the negative consequences of that are significant, and the price that doctors pay if we do not do our work by December 31, and it looks now like we will sort of, and we will get to that in a minute, it looks like we will do that work and accomplish that task before December 31; but if we don't do that, then this year the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services came out with a report November 1 saying doctors would receive payment reductions of a little bit over 10 percent, I think it was 10.1 or 10.3 percent, for 2008 compared to what they received in 2007. Well, stop and think about that for a minute, Mr. Speaker. These are small businesses. The physician practices that most of us were familiar with back in our communities, I was a physician in my previous life. I am very familiar with this concept. We are small businesses. And year over year, it is not costing us less to keep the lights on in that office. It is not costing us less to hire our employees to be able to provide the services that you want us to provide. It is not costing us less for liability insurance year over year. 
   Yet Congress in its infinite wisdom says that we should be able to make do with a little bit less in compensation for the Medicare patient year over year. This year that payment reduction was 10.1 percent. 
   Now, you might say, well, a physician's practice isn't just Medicare patients. There is commercial insurance. There is self-pay. Why are we so concerned about the Medicare aspect? What percentage of a physician's practice will be taken up by Medicare patients? And the answer is, it varies and it depends on different places in the country and what the patient mix is in various places in the country. Arguably, it might be higher in a State like Florida than it would be in a State like Wyoming. 
   But nevertheless, the other effect of these Medicare compensation, Medicare reimbursement reductions that happen and are scheduled to happen every year for the next 15 or 20 years, the other effect is that every commercial insurance company in this country, almost, not all of them but almost, pegs their rates, pegs what they compensate, the level of what they compensate doctors to the Medicare formula. So they pay a formula such as 110 percent of Medicare usual and customary. Some will pay less than Medicare. But most pay a little bit more, not a generous amount more, but a little bit more than Medicare. 
   But if Medicare cuts its rates by 10.1 percent, then guess what? The commercial insurance company will be only too happy to reduce their compensation rates by 10.1 percent. And I don't think it was ever the intent of Congress to legislate an improved business plan for America's insurance companies. They are perfectly capable of doing that on their own. They are perfectly capable of going into the physician community and negotiating a lower rate if they need to do that if that is what needs to happen so they can continue to provide the care for the patients, continue to provide the coverage for the patients. 
   They are perfectly capable of going to the physician community and saying this is what we need to do with the new rate structure; but they kind of get a little gift every Christmas from the United States Congress that says, well, we are going to reduce our Medicare rates if we don't do our work. And guess what? All of you patients who are covered under private insurance, your doctors are going to get paid a little less even though they are going to do exactly the same work on January 3 or 4 that they did on December 27 or 28. 
   Again, Mr. Speaker, I know I need to confine my remarks to the Chair, and I will keep my remarks confined to the Chair. But it does happen that sometimes people actually do watch C-SPAN this late at night and they do see these discussions, and I have gotten some feedback, Mr. Speaker, when I have put up this poster before. I actually have three posters that delineate the actual payment formula for physicians under the Medicare system. I have only brought one tonight in the interest of time. 
   And I bring this not to elicit sympathy but I just want people to be understanding and cognizant of just how complicated, how complicated this process is under the actual gyrations that we go through to come up with these physician formulas. 
   Now, this is actually the first part of what really should be three slides, but I did promise some people that I wouldn't bring all three slides tonight. But the payment for physicians is figured by taking the relative value unit for work, geographical factor, a relative value unit or the cost of inputs, the practice costs which is the subscript P C in the middle parenthesis there, again, the geographic factor that is figured in, and then the relative value unit for liability insurance, and again a geographical factor figured in. Then the whole thing is multiplied by a conversion factor down here, there is a misprint, that should be C F, which is ``conversion factor,'' and the calculation of the conversion factor is every bit as complicated as this first part of the formula 
   Again, I don't want to lose people with this discussion, but I want you to understand how difficult this is conceptually. As a consequence, Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle,  when you sit down and say, I want to talk to you about how we compensate physicians under the Medicare system, literally their eyes glaze over and roll back in their head because this is simply too hard for many people to think about. 
   Again I have spared, Mr. Speaker, the House from looking at the other two slides which also are filled with various parts of the formula. 
   And too, let me, Mr. Speaker, this will give you some idea of how long I have been doing this particular talk, because actually this slide was current this time last year when I was doing this very same discussion. And I need to update, because now we have completed fiscal year 2007, so no longer will 2007 have an asterisk beside it. We actually have the actual figures for that, and the figures for 2008 need to be added on.     
   This illustrates the problem we have. Now, last year right before the end of Congress, we hadn't quite figured out what we were going to do, so it was projected that doctors would have a little over a 4 1/2 percent payment cut. It turns out that that didn't happen. We actually at the last minute came in and held doctors at what we euphemistically call a zero percent update. 
   Well, I am here to tell you that anywhere else in Washington, if you come in saying we are going to hold you at level funding, they will say, Wait a minute, the cost of inflation, the cost of doing business has gone up so much, that is actually a cut. Well, that is exactly right, and doctors did receive essentially a cut, but we called it a zero percent update, and we did not score it as a cut, but they were scheduled to get a 4 1/2 percent payment reduction. 
   This year, if we don't take up the legislation that the Senate just zipped through at the last minute here at the end of the day on Tuesday, if we don't take that up and pass that before we leave town to have Christmas with our families, this negative projection will actually be twice as far, down past the end of the page, because that is a 10.1 percent reduction that doctors are facing this next year. 
   What happens, Mr. Speaker, is every year that we come in at the last minute with that fix, that money that we come in at the last minute to provide our physicians, guess what? It gets added on to the end of that very complicated formula that I just showed you. So every year that we don't fix the fundamental problem, which is to repeal the sustainable growth rate formula, every year we don't do that, we make the problem harder to solve next year, and at some point we will simply reach the point where it is too hard to solve, it's too expensive to solve, and people will either restructure the formula because it just collapses of its own weight, or just say we are not going to even try to solve it any longer because it is just too hard. It's an odd concept because it's money that has already been spent. 
   Going back to 2002, when there was a 4.4 percent negative update, and I was in practice then, and that did happen, but the moneys that were paid in the Medicare system in 2002 have already been paid, they have already been spent. So when they say it costs more to repeal the sustainable growth rate formula every year, it's because we are actually going to have to account for that money on our books, but the money has already been spent. 
   There's not any magic here. We have paid the money to the physicians for that given year. We just haven't quite accounted for it on our books, and that is why there is that additive factor that goes on year after year that kind of makes it impossible to ever dig out of this hole. We certainly won't be able to if we don't ever start, and that is the direction I have tried to take in the last Congress and tried again in this Congress. I wasn't really successful in getting a lot of people to understand the significance of this. 
   The reality is that as we continue, continue to cut at the compensation rate for physicians in the Medicare program, what happens is more and more physicians say, You know what? I just can't do it anymore. I can't keep the lights on. I can't pay the help. I can't buy my liability insurance and continue to see Medicare patients. And worse than that, there's the pernicious effect of, come on, we are right on top of the end of the year here and we are asking doctors around the country to kind of trust us on this; we are going to fix it. 
   How do you plan in your business for expansion? How do you plan to take out loans, take capital risks? How do you plan when year over year over year in the Medicare system you have cuts stretching out ahead, and, oh, by the way, commercial insurance is going to follow suit if Congress keeps those cuts intact and keeps them in place, because we don't really have a free market for health care in this country. We have Federal price controls, and it's essentially cloaked in the Medicare program, but, nevertheless, the end result is Federal price controls on medical reimbursement rates for procedures all over the country. 
   Now, one of the things that really disturbs me about this is it really also is a pernicious effect, a chilling effect on young people who might be thinking about a career in health care. I remember as a young man in high school and college thinking about what a great thing it would be to be a physician, to be worthy to serve the suffering, to serve my fellow man. Yeah, I expected to make some money doing it, but that wasn't the primary reason for going into the field. 
   But, at the same time, I didn't face the kinds of student loans that the young individual today will face at the end of their 4 years of getting their BA degree, let alone the loans going through medical school, and then they have got to really defer earnings the years that they are in residency. Yes, they are paid something during residency, but nowhere near enough to pay the freight on those lines they have through undergraduate school and through medical school. Basically, we are talking about a person who may spend between 10 and 18 years after high school getting through all of their education and their training. 
   Well, you think about that. Someone is graduating from high school and 15 years later some of his classmates have already built and sold a business and they are sort of semiretired. You give up. You postpone those active earning years by a decade, a decade and a half, and that is just one of the things that you expect when you take on a career in medicine. 
   Well, young people are looking at that and saying, You know what? That postponement of my active earning years, and the Federal Government being so injudicious with what it is doing in the Medicare system, and that affecting other areas in the commercial aspect of medicine, maybe that is just something that I shouldn't do. Maybe I will do something else with my life, because that is a little iffy, and I don't really know if I will be able to afford the liability insurance to go into practice. 
   So we have got to do something to help young people understand that we value, we value their service in becoming a physician or becoming a nurse, that this is something that we in Congress encourage them to do and want them to do. But right now I have got to tell you they look at it and say, I don't know if that is for me. 
   One of the other things, and this has come up just in the last two weeks here in Congress, is we kind of worked with this concept of what are we going to do to make things right for the doctors before we get to the end of the year. Along comes this bill to require physicians to begin e-prescribing. Well, that is a good concept. Certainly, no one wants to argue with the theory. But it reminds me of an old professor I had in undergraduate school. When he was asked a question too tough for him to answer, he would look you back in the eye and say, Do you want the theory or the application? 
   This is one of those instances where the theory is pretty good but the application, at least as has been discussed in the last two weeks, the technical term for it would be it stinks, Mr. Speaker, because we want physicians, we want them to come into the 21st century, we want them to use electronic medical records and things like e-prescribing. 
   Any one of us can cite chapter and verse all of the 
   good things that will come from e-prescribing; yet the number one group that we have got to get to buy into this concept, well, we don't treat them very well when we come at them with legislation, as the legislation that was brought out a couple of  weeks ago over on the Senate side, but it's also been talked about over here on the House side, the so-called carrot-and-stick approach. We'll give you a little something nice now if you do it and, by golly, we are going to make you pay in a couple of years. The carrot-and-stick concept in this case really is more like, I don't know what vegetable I would associate with it, probably something more along the lines of spinach, or if we're talking about the first President Bush, perhaps broccoli. But the other end, the stick, is extremely onerous for physicians who are in practice. 
   Let me just give you the very quick version of what this legislation, as provided to us, would entail. For doctors who participate in the Medicare system, we are so anxious for them to prescribe in the e-prescribing regimen, we are going to generously provide them an additional 1 percent, a 1 percent upgrade on what we provide in Medicare compensation. 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, I don't remember exactly what I received for a moderately complex patient return visit. I am going to wage it was not as much as $50. But let's stipulate, because the math is easy, let's stipulate that that is a $50 reimbursement rate from the Medicare system. And a good physician who is practicing careful medicine and doing all the right things they are supposed to do as far as history taking, good careful physical exam, patient education after coming to a diagnosis and a treatment plan, you can probably see that patient in 15 minutes. So four an hour are what we are talking about, and we are talking about a physician generating, not making, but generating $200 in income for that hour they spend in their office seeing those four moderately complex return visit Medicare patients for which the Federal Government pays them the generous sum of $50. 
   Now, if we add a 1 percent update to that, let's see, each patient, that is about 50 cents. So for that hour's work we are going to add $2 to the compensation for that physician. 
   E-prescribing takes a little time. It takes some investment. It takes some time to learn. It is not something you can just pick up. It is quicker to scribble down a handwritten note. Now, no one may be able to read it, but nevertheless you have performed that record-keeping requirement, and it is much quicker to scribble down that handwritten note in the treatment plan and write out a prescription and rip it off and hand it to the patient. 
   The reality is e-prescribing takes some time. It adds time to that patient encounter. It is time that realistically someone should compensate that provider for providing. That would be a fair assessment. 
   Now, what do we do if, after three or four years' time, the doctors just haven't cottoned to this idea that we are going to pay them an extra 50 cents per patient on average to do this work for us? Well, then we come in with the stick phenomenon, and that will be a 10 percent reduction on that patient's services. So here we have gone from a $2 increase for those four patients for that hour's work, or, perhaps if the doctor hasn't done it, then that will be a $20 fine for those patients for that hour's work. 
   Once again, our physician community is going to look at that and say, No, thank you. I don't think I will participate in that. You can keep your Medicare patients and you can keep your e-prescribing and I will go off and do something else, and the patient is the one that suffers. 
   But it is a good concept. It is a good concept, and it is worthy of Congress spending the time, and it is worthy of Congress providing the proper compensation for physicians who are willing to invest in this technology. 
   Right now, the bill as rolled out would provide $2,000 to buy the equipment. It probably costs $25,000 in reality. Even if you gave it to a physician's practice free, there is still going to be ongoing costs of the maintenance of the software, the ongoing costs of educating the physicians in that particular practice, and it takes longer to fill out that electronic medical record and to fill out that form for e-prescribing than what the doctors historically are used to in an old paper system. But we have decided that is not a value and we are not going to pay for that. 
   Now, some people think that this is such a good idea because they are, in fact, going to make a significant amount of money. Certainly the people that sell the software are likely to make a significant amount of money. Certainly the pharmacy benefit managers, the big pharmaceutical mail-order houses, they are likely to reap some benefits from this. 
   But for whatever reason, all of this good stuff that is going to come from e-prescribing, no one is really thinking that it is worthwhile to share that with the physician. But the physician is the one we want to buy into this new system. And it is a new system. It is a new way of learning and it is a new way doing things. 
   Now, indeed, if nothing happens, younger physicians, as they go through their training, they will be exposed more and more to electronic prescribing and electronic medical records. There will come a time in probably the not-too-distant future where this evolution will just take place on its own. But the bill that was rolled out a couple of weeks ago was an effort to make it happen a little faster, to get some of those good benefits from e-prescribing, and they are significant, to get some of those good benefits out there and established early. 
   Again, it is going to make a significant amount of money for some people who will be involved in this. But again, for whatever reason, the Federal Government does not see value in allowing the practitioner, the physician, to participate in that distribution of all of that value that we are going to derive from this system. 
   Now, I don't mean to give the impression that I don't believe in e-prescribing and electronic medical records. Let me just go with one last poster, Mr. Speaker, and then we will wrap this up for tonight. 
   I haven't always been a big believer in electronic medical records. Again, I have tried a couple of different systems in my time in private practice and I didn't find them all that intuitive or user friendly, but this is the day I became a believer in electronic medical records. 
   This is the basement of Charity Hospital in New Orleans. Charity Hospital, one of the venerable teaching institutions in this country. Many of the professors I had at Parkland Hospital in the 1970s actually did their training in this very building at Charity Hospital. 
   Charity Hospital in 2005, August of 2005, was ground zero for the strongest hurricane probably to ever hit the continental United States in anyone's memory. And the flooding that followed that hurricane obviously dealt a severe blow to infrastructure all over the City of New Orleans, and the basement of Charity Hospital was, in fact, underwater for a significant amount of time. So all of these records were submerged. 
   This photograph was taken in probably October of 2005. So 2 months after the hurricane, a month, maybe 5 weeks after the city was dewatered, that is a verb I learned from the United States Corps of Engineers, I didn't know it was a verb before they used it, but the city was dewatered. 
   Here the medical records sit. Now we have black mold growing on the manila folders. Probably the ink on many of these records was actually just washed off in the flooding. Who knows? It wouldn't be safe to have anyone go in there and look at those records, because look the at the mold spoors that are ready to be blown off in a big cloud waiting to be inhaled by a pair of unsuspecting lungs and cause great damage.     
   So these medical records are in fact lost forever. And who knows what is in there, someone waiting for a kidney transplant, someone's hypertension that has been under treatment for two decades; someone's diabetes that was carefully monitored but not so much anymore. All of these records have been lost forever. 
   Electronic medical records and medical records that are then controlled in an electronic fashion in a secure fashion up on the Internet where they can be accessed, all of these patients that had to leave the city. Many came to the Metroplex area in north Texas, and many of them were cared for by physicians at Parkland Hospital, John Peter Smith Hospital, and private physicians  in the area. None of their medical records were available, and many of these patients had very complex medical conditions and were on multiple medications at the time. And if it had not been for the good graces for some of the pharmacies that actually had patient records electronically that were able to set up outside some of the triage centers to provide that data to physicians who agreed to see these patients as they came off of the transportation from New Orleans and arrived in Dallas, you can construct a pretty good medical history just going to the pharmaceutical history, and those pharmacy records were invaluable in providing good care and immediate care to those patients. 
   But it certainly made a believer out of me in January, or when this picture was made after the flooding in New Orleans that paper records have inherently within them a fundamental flaw, and that is, in time of great natural disaster they are not going to be there to provide useful information for those patients if they are suddenly displaced, as these patients were, the medical records themselves. They could have been destroyed in a fire, they could have been damaged in an earthquake in some other parts of the country. And, unfortunately, these types of tragedies do happen, and electronic medical records does take some aspect of that tragedy away because it does provide a way for that record to be accessed in a different location, and all of that data can be pulled off the Internet and be made available to the now receiving physician who is treating that patient. 
   Mr. Speaker, a little preventive medicine would go a long way in this entire Medicare policy debate. I just can't help but note the irony: November 1, when the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services came out and said, Doctor, 10.1 percent cut, unless Congress does something before the end of the year. About that same time, the conference Chair on the majority side had an op-ed in The Washington Post that said, you know what, we have done such a good job with providing government health care and Medicare and we are doing a great job now with what we are doing in SCHIP. We know how that has turned out so far. We want to extend Medicare benefits to people who are down to the age of 55. We want to drag and drop this population into what is happening in the Medicare policies right now. 
   I would just argue, before we expand the program to that degree, shouldn't we ask ourselves are we doing a good job with what we have right now. 
   I think the mere fact that we are here at the 11th hour of this Congress and we have not dealt with the problem of physician compensation, doctors' offices across the country are looking at Congress and saying, what gives, guys? How am I going to prepare for next year? Do I hire that new doctor or not? Do I buy that piece of medical equipment or not? Do I take out a loan to improve my office or not? Because they don't have any certitude about what the activity of this body is going to be. And even at the best, the best we can do at this point is say we are going to punt for 6 months, and we will see you in June. 
   Mr. Speaker, that is not acceptable. This Congress has an obligation to this country's physicians to behave in a responsible way. And certainly, certainly let's quell the talk of expanding the reach and grasp of the Federal Government until we take care of what we already have. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (VIRGINIA GRAEME BAKER POOL AND SPA SAFETY ACT -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank our committee chairman for bringing this bill to the floor and all the people who have worked so hard on this legislation over the years. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am going to rise in support today of H.R. 1721, the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act. During the Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection Subcommittee markup, it occurred to me because of some things that had happened back in my district that there was an additional danger that was not being addressed in the hearings we had leading up to this legislation. So during the subcommittee process, I introduced an amendment that was inspired by the tragic accident that occurred in an ornamental pool back in my district back in Fort Worth, Texas. In June of 2004, three children and one adult drowned at the Fort Worth Water Gardens: Myron Dukes, age 39; his daughter, Lauren, age 8; his son, Christopher, 13; and a family friend, Juanitrice Deadmon, age 11. On that tragic day, one child accidentally fell into the ornamental pool and the other three jumped in trying to save the child. Compounding the tragedy, the water was unusually deep due to a recirculating pump malfunction and recent heavy rains. 
   Mr. Speaker, let me quote to you and the House from the Fort Worth Star Telegram about that event. Fort Worth Star Telegram June 17, 2004: 
   ``The victims were among the thousands of visitors attending the National Baptist Congress at the Fort Worth Convention Center. 
   ``The pastor, Gerald Dew, said he was told that the children went to the Water Gardens to play because the swimming pool at the Fort Worth Plaza Hotel where they were staying was closed for maintenance. 
   ``One of the children slipped, which started a chain reaction. 
   ``Bike patrol officer Tony Maldonado, who was one of the first officers to arrive at the swimming pool, said he jumped in and the force `literally sucked the socks off of my feet.' '' 
   From the Fort Worth Star Telegram 2004. 
   While this tragedy happened in Fort Worth, the visitors were from Chicago and were constituents of my subcommittee chairman and friend, Congressman Rush. I know that both of our cities, Fort Worth, Texas, and Chicago, Illinois, grieved about this loss. 
   Mr. Speaker, let me quote to you from an online report from the CBS affiliate in Chicago, Chicago.com, on the reopening of the Water Gardens last spring. This is from March 20, 2007: ``The park of artistic pools and fountains closed following the June 2004 drownings of the four from Chicago, who were in Fort Worth for a religious convention. Since then, more than $3 million in modifications to improve the park's safety have been made. 
   ` ``The renovations from the past month don't take away from the mystique,' Mayor Michael Moncrief said during the ceremonies. 
   ``Now, the depth of the Active Pool, where the drownings occurred, has been restricted to less than 2 feet. Other renovations include new pumps and pump system, switches, electrical  work, lights and additional handrails, as well as a larger and easier-to-clean drain system around the park's perimeter.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, as with many things in life, awareness and education can save lives. And this disaster, this disaster that happened in my district in Fort Worth, must not be repeated. More education regarding the unseen dangers hidden in ornamental pools is necessary. 
   Mr. Speaker, almost every single community in this country has an ornamental pool. We have quite a few here at the Capitol. While 36 States have pool safety programs, not all of these States have an ornamental pool safety program, and therefore they likely do not educate their constituency on the dangers that ornamental pools can represent. Ornamental pools often greatly enhance communities, but they can also pose a great threat to communities if the owners and operators are not educated as to the potential danger. 
   Through my amendment in this bill, there will be a wider public education campaign to alert consumers to the safety hazards associated and the requirements for proper maintenance of ornamental pools. The bill, which requires the use of proper anti-entrapment drain covers and drainage systems, establishes a swimming pool safety grant program to be administered by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. 
   This legislation also encourages States to strengthen pool and spa safety laws and increase public education and outreach to consumers. I believe the inclusions of ornamental pools in this bill is an important component of this legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word. 
   Mr. Chairman, on Monday morning my constituents in Gainesville, Texas, woke up to a terrible sight. They woke up to discover their homes, businesses and city awash in water. Heavy rain in north Texas over the weekend and early into Monday morning overwhelmed Pecan Creek and other area streams. There have been several confirmed fatalities, 420 flooded homes, untold millions of dollars' worth of damage in the north Texas area. 
   The first responders, the fire people, the swift water rescue teams, are still in the process of rescue recovery and evaluating the damage and helping people whose homes and businesses have been destroyed. 
   This photograph was taken yesterday morning. It is reminiscent of photographs that were taken during the 1990s, during the 1980s, during the 1970s, during the 1960s, literally as far back as I can remember. That is why I have requested funds for a section 205 flood control project in Gainesville, Texas, and I have every year for the last 3 years. 
   Progress has been made. Funds have been allocated to the project in fiscal year 2007, to the Corps' work plan to complete studies in engineering; but realistically, the time for study has long since passed. We need construction dollars. 
   Funding for Pecan Creek was my number one request in the Energy and Water appropriations bill this year, last year and the year prior. I hope that the chairman and the ranking member will help by providing the funding for the construction projects that are so desperately needed by the citizens of north Texas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (CODEL TO IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I come to the floor of the House tonight having just returned from the country of Iraq yesterday afternoon. And even given the lateness of the hour, I wanted to come address the House because there are some issues that are, in fact, very timely and time-sensitive, and I thought it was important to get them spoken on the floor of the House. 
   My intention is to come back with the other Members who were on the trip with me, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. Brady of Texas, Mr. Jordan of Ohio, Mr. Davis of Tennessee, and talk about this in some depth in the weeks to come. Mr. King of Iowa was also with us on the trip. But because of the lateness tonight and the lateness that we are likely to go tomorrow night and Thursday night, it may be next week before we can actually do that formal presentation, and there were some things that I wanted to get on the floor of the House this week. 
   Madam Speaker, I would report to the House that as of the third week of July 2007, it is still a very mixed report about the situation in Iraq. My overall impression from this latest trip is that significant successes have occurred and are likely to continue to occur as far as returning control of the country to the Iraqi Government and delivering it out of the hands of criminals and murderers. At the same time, it is still a very dangerous situation, and the sacrifice is very real. 
   Madam Speaker, the future of America is vastly different depending upon the outcome of what happens in the country of Iraq. A stable country, a country with a representational government, a country able to act as a partner for peace in the Middle East would be vastly preferable to a lawless land ruled by terrorists and criminals providing a base for training operations and, Madam Speaker, a source for funding for further enlargement of their activities. 
   Almost without question, the divergent future was on the minds of almost everyone I talked with during the 2-day trip. Certainly America's best interest is going to be served by stability in that country and with their active participation in stabilizing a very troubled region. 
   It has been just over a year since I last traveled to Iraq. A lot has changed both at home and in Iraq over that time. There is no question that the news reports coming out of Iraq have almost been universally pessimistic for about 10 months' time. I was obviously very concerned about what I would encounter upon my return to that country, but the trip made over the weekend, a Saturday and Sunday, a very condensed time frame with a great deal to see, we learned a great deal. 
   Starting with a 2 a.m. departure from the military airport in Kuwait City, we loaded on the C-130 for the flight into Baghdad. The plane was cramped and fully loaded. Already at 2:00 in the morning, it was over 90 degrees. The plane contained a large number of soldiers and marines who were returning to Baghdad. Because of the very early hour and the loudness of the aircraft, there was not much time for conversation; but after the plane landed and the engines were stopped, there was a brief episode where conversation was possible. 
   For most, this was their second or third rotation. Their deployments had been extended through 15 months, and most would not go home for almost a year from that point. When several who were standing next to me learned who I was, there was obviously an eagerness for conversation. 
   Since February, there has been a change in how they have done their work. Now most were placed alongside Iraqi soldiers in smaller groups around town. They were no longer attached to the larger, more protected bases, and the soldiers were clearly seeing a greater amount of activity, and it concerned them. 
   I spoke in some depth with the soldier in front of me. He had 10 months left in his rotation, and sometimes he wondered if the generals knew what they were up against in this deployment. He complained about the long hours and the heat. He complained about being separated from his family. He had been reading a book on the plane, and I asked him about this. He said it was a book about philosophy, so I naturally assumed that upon leaving the Army at the end of his deployment, he would likely return to school, or perhaps he had a job waiting for him, and I asked him about this. He looked at me strangely. ``Well, I just reenlisted for 5 years,'' he said tersely. 
   We left the plane and parted ways. He got on an armored convoy, and we were loaded in Blackhawk helicopters for the next leg of our trip down to Ramadi. It was still very early in the morning, and the sun was barely breaking through the low dust layer that always seems to hang over Baghdad in the summer. The temperature was already in excess of 100 degrees, but in many ways my conversation with this soldier underscored the ambiguities, the inconsistencies, and the incongruous nature of life in Iraq. 
   Over the next 48 hours, we would see stories of great heroism and great hope. At the same time, the frustration of buying time and space for a young government, sometimes a dysfunctional government, of a war-torn country was underscored at several junctures. 
   From a military perspective, success has been made and continues to be made on a near daily basis. Indeed, the primary enemy, al Qaeda, has not only been beaten, but vanquished every time there has been an encounter. And because of the increased military activity, the encounters have been more frequent. At the same time, a very young government seems to have already developed entrenched bureaucracies because of the centralized nature of the government in Iraq. As military successes are happening around the country, aid from the central government is slow to be dispatched out to the outlying communities. 
   As is probably the case with every other conflict in our Nation's history, there are widely distributed data points, and one can take one or two of these and make 
   virtually any argument that one wishes to make. It takes a more disciplined outlook to analyze the data, look at the trendlines, but that is a discipline that must be exercised. 
   Madam Speaker, the city of Ramadi in the al-Anbar Province in Western Iraq was the first stop for us on Saturday. This is a city the size of Fort  Worth, Texas, back in my home district. One year ago when I was in Iraq, Ramadi was held by insurgent representatives of al Qaeda. In July of 2006, there would have been no way for a congressional delegation to travel to this city as it would have been seen as too dangerous a mission. 
   But things began to change last February. The historic tribal leaders began to clearly understand that life alongside al Qaeda was not going to improve; and in a stunning reversal, the town's leaders began to seek out and embrace American protection. Popular support was now no longer available to al Qaeda in a city that had been destined to be the provincial capital of the resurgent Caliphate. This represented a striking strategic failure for the enemy. Their shadow government which had intended to establish a capital of a radical Islamic state was forced out of the city, and, indeed, subsequent armed attempts to retake control were successfully repelled. People in town began identifying where the terrorists lived, who was making the bombs, who was putting the city and their daily lives in jeopardy. 
   Now, the task of rebuilding a civil society, the municipal government has certainly significant tasks ahead of it. And, Madam Speaker, I might add to that it was the additional soldiers and marines provided by what is called the surge last February, particularly the soldiers of the 2nd Marine Expeditionary Unit force just north of al-Anbar, that made a lot of this possible. They intercepted the vehicle-borne improvised explosive devices as they were on their way down to Ramadi; they found the factories where these were manufactured, and were able to provide additional breathing space and additional room as the city was recontrolled by the Americans. 
   Because of the distance from Baghdad and the central government, there has been some isolation, and significant efforts have been made by the Army to ensure that the local mayor has the ability to provide for his citizens. And this, Madam Speaker, underscores one of the real difficulties ahead for this country. As areas are reclaimed and stabilized, the central government must be able to quickly provide the financial and security support that will be required to sustain this early success. 
   This also underscores one of the important recognized benchmarks, that of holding the provincial elections. During the electoral process 2 years ago, most of the Sunni population was involved in an electoral boycott. Now they see the fundamental error of that decision, and they are eager to see new elections that would permit a more popular representation. 
   After 2 or 3 years of serious brutality at the hands of al Qaeda, the population now sees America as helpers and sees Americans as protectors. The tribal leaders had originally feared that Americans were occupiers, that they would stay forever, but now they have come to understand that the Americans have no such interests. The same could not be said for al Qaeda's interests. Their clear intent was to hold the town for their purposes for the foreseeable future. 
   The point was made during our visit that there are no overnight solutions to the problems in Iraq. Leadership cannot be bought, and this has to be an evolutionary change. But this change can occur if the correct environment is provided. 
   As if to underscore the recent success in Ramadi, we were taken out of the military base, down the main street of town, right into the marketplace. We were permitted to walk freely in the marketplace and observed many of the items for sale in what appears to be a very normal Arab market. 
   Madam Speaker, I did provide a photograph from that visit, and here you can see again one of the stalls of the market. You can see the goods for sale, the pots and pans up there, coolers for water or whatever other beverage one might want to have. You can see the smiles on the young children. They didn't know we were going to come to town that day; it just happened that we showed up, and they were apparently glad to see us. You see the men there bargaining in the background. It doesn't really look like a street scene of people that are under great stress or duress. It looks like a normal marketplace with normal people doing normal Saturday-morning activities. 
   The vehicle you see just a portion up here at the edge of the photograph was actually a municipal vehicle, a city vehicle. They were repairing one of the sewer lines in the street. Many of the sewer lines and water lines in this town had been broken by improvised explosive devices that had gone off during the more active and kinetic phases of the retaking of the city from the al Qaeda groups. But it wasn't Americans who were out repairing the sewer pipe, it was actually the municipal government of the city of Ramadi who was taking care of that task, as they should, as is appropriate for a municipal government, the appropriate way for a municipal government to behave. 
   I would also point out some of the clothing that is for sale. 
   Madam Speaker, I just have to say in this trip to Iraq one of the things I saw that really struck me as being significantly different from other trips, not just in Ramadi, but in Baghdad and some of the other areas we visited, many more women were in evidence out on the streets and out in public, significantly different from other times when I have been there. And I take that as a good sign, a good sign as for the resurgence of civil society. 
   But there is pretty striking evidence of the prior combat in the town all around us. But the evidence of active reconstruction and a crew working on the sewer line in the middle of the street as we walked through town really again gave me some hope that there was some stability for these young children. 
   And let me talk about the future for a moment. That is a future that these young men now have that actually was going to be denied to them just a few short months ago. And, again, you can see the look of curiosity on these boys' faces. This boy is not quite sure whether to smile or run away. But, nevertheless, these kids were all over in the marketplace. 
   And you see back there again some of the brightly colored glass and things that weren't for sale in the market. I don't know where these shirts came from; presumably that represents some sort of local sports team. But, again, a very different scene in Ramadi today than would have been evident a year ago. 
   When I returned yesterday, one of the things that I encounter in the headline in the Washington Times was also of encouragement to me. We had spent some time during the trip on Saturday at a place called Camp Taji, which is north of Iraq.     
   Camp Taji is where a good number of our soldiers are stationed, a lot of our National Guardsmen are stationed. And again, Camp Taji, the same situation: they've moved soldiers out the relatively large base. They've moved out to work with the Iraqi units, to work in the towns. And one of the things we learned on that trip through there this weekend, the commander told us that there had just been a meeting with 150 sheiks, both Sunni and Shiia, and the reason for the meeting, the meeting was called by the sheiks. They wanted to meet with the American military, and the reason for that meeting was they wanted this same type of success for their communities. They wanted to ask if the same type of return to civil society that is going on, that's breaking out in the country of Ramadi, they wanted to know if it was possible in their communities. And, again, not just Sunni leaders, Shiia leaders as well. 
   And I'll quote from yesterday's, this is the Washington Times from Monday, July 23, 2007. And it says: ``U.S. forces have brokered an agreement between Sunni and Shiia tribal leaders to join forces against al Qaeda and other extremists extending a policy that has transformed the security situation in western Anbar province, and they wanted to extend that to this area north of the capital.'' 
   A startling story. We just heard about this on Saturday when we were there. In fact, I was kind of given the impression that it was so new that maybe we shouldn't talk about it. But here it is on the front page of the Washington Times, so I'm going to assume it is okay to bring that up. Very significant because, of course, in the Sunni areas of Iraq, al Qaeda's dominant. In the Shiia areas the Mahdi  Army from Maktadar al Sadr was dominant. Neither one of these groups is seen as really furthering the common interests of the country of Iraq, and both Sunni and Shiia were asking for help from the Americans. 
   Another headline that greeted me Monday morning when I woke up in Germany on the way back, one of the generals, General Mixon, has proposed a shift in strategy in Iraq. He says, they're so calm up north, maybe we should be able to bring some of our troops from up north down to the areas around Baghdad to provide additional security there because, quite frankly, they're not needed in Nineveh province. They're not needed in these areas where just a year ago there was significant terrorist activity occurring and United States troops were required. 
   Madam Speaker, you have been very generous with the time. I hope to be back here next week with the other members of the congressional delegation that went to Iraq. We'll talk a great deal more about this subject, but some of these issues were time sensitive and I wanted to get them on the record while they were still very relevant. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (FISA -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the Speaker for the recognition. 
   It has been an interesting and entertaining hour that we have just been through. I came to the floor tonight to talk a little bit about the Middle East, but after hearing the comments for the last hour I would just remind my friends that the Senate passed a bill that passed with a fairly significant majority over in the Senate. And if the Senate-passed bill were brought to the floor of the House, we would have our FISA legislation reestablished. There are enough Members on their side combined with the Members on my side where the bill would pass without any difficulty. But it has been the lack of the will of the House leadership to bring this very important bill to the House and once again establish a modicum of protection for America, because, after all, despite all the lofty rhetoric we just heard in the last hour, it is not surveillance of American citizens on American soil, it is surveillance of individuals who are outside of America, outside the shores of America who are communicating with each other. But because of the nuances of the telecommunications system, those wires may pass through the United States, a server may exist in the United States, and therein the problem lies. 
   And it is important, because as I talk about the Middle East I am going to come back to this issue on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, because the lack of a functioning Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act is actually hampering some of our progress in the Middle East and I think it is important to draw that distinction. 
   Again, as I said, Mr. Speaker, I just returned a little over a week ago from a trip to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq. As a consequence, I was also in Kuwait briefly. But it is significant, and probably the first time where I have been in those three countries in that short a period of time. It is instructive to visit those countries in that condensed time period, because you really get a sense of how interconnected the successes and/or failures  in each of those areas, how interconnected those facts are. All of those regions have their differences. They are significantly different. But certainly the progress in one area helps progress in another, and lack of progress in one signals lack of progress in the other. And I certainly saw evidence of this in all three places where I visited. And, as the saying goes, a picture is worth a thousand words and I do have several pictures that I would like to share with the House this evening and I will be doing that. 
   First, in Afghanistan. The battle in Afghanistan is clearly interconnected in so many ways with our relationships with our NATO allies. In fact, in Afghanistan, probably in early 2004, just as the NATO handover was beginning, there was a lot of optimism that our NATO partners were engaging in this and NATO is going to function as an alliance. After 9/11, NATO activated article 5 for the first time in its history: An attack on one country was equivalent to an attack on all countries, and we would all respond in kind. So America had been attacked, and here in early 2004 with the arrival of the German troops, we saw the beginnings of the NATO alliance coming and bringing its full weight to bear in Afghanistan. Now it hasn't worked out quite the way we had all hoped it would have, because some of our NATO allies are somewhat recalcitrant, and they really need to begin thinking long term about the stability and the impact of stability in the Middle East and how that impacts the security of the world at large. It is not just for that one narrow area of the world; it is much more widespread. 
   Now, no question about it, American, British, Canadian, Dutch, and Polish soldiers are doing great work and they are fighting against the Taliban in southern Afghanistan. Other areas with other components of the NATO alliance, it is not working quite the same way. In many ways it is regarded as a humanitarian mission rather than a military exercise. But I must stress, this is not a humanitarian mission, it is still a military exercise. Until the Taliban and the resurgent elements of al Qaeda are repulsed and removed, it will remain a military exercise. And the future of NATO depends on how well each of those individual countries could work together through this admittedly very difficult period. If we act together in strength, if we act as an alliance, I don't think there is any doubt that ultimately success will come. But if the activity continues to be fractured, the work becomes much more difficult; and the results will be fractured, the alliance is at risk and, as a consequence, the enemy will be emboldened. That's a shame. Because, remember, the Taliban in Afghanistan is not a popular insurgency. These are individuals who have been seen as oppressive and repressive. When they were thrown off, it was great jubilation by the people in Afghanistan, and there is no joy in bringing the Taliban back into people's lives. The Taliban does employ military age males more or less as day laborers, puts a gun in their hand and gives them a charge to do something. But the reality is, if there were other work available, these individuals would just as soon be doing other work and feeding their families in other ways because, again, the Taliban is not a popular insurgency. 
   One of the things that of course was stressed a great deal in our visit in Afghanistan, our visits with General Rodriguez at the Bagram Air Base was all of the activity that takes place along the border. And certainly, when we went into Pakistan, those same themes were played out again. Not surprisingly, the perspective of the individuals, military generals in Afghanistan, was a little bit different from the political leaders in Pakistan. Suffice it to say there is a lot of activity going on along the Pakistan-Afghanistan border, and we see reports of this in our newspapers from time to time. There has been an 
   increase in military activity on our part in some of those areas, and I think that is a good thing. I think they have removed some people who were continuing to cause great harm in the area. But at the same time, as we saw in the trip in Pakistan, it creates some difficulties in other areas. 
   Now Pakistan had just completed a rather large and historic election when we arrived there on February 22. President Musharraf, who had been the leader of Afghanistan, was a military general. Of course in 1999 he was responsible for a coup and deposed the prime minister, Sharif. President Musharraf has pretty much been the single and solitary ruler in Pakistan now for the last 7 or 8 years. His party lost a majority of seats in the parliament in the last parliamentary election. We did meet with President Musharraf. He was quick to point out that he had won his election the October before, so it wasn't about him not winning an election, it was about the elections in parliament. And Mr. Musharraf I think correctly pointed out, as did other leaders that we talked with, that the good news out of the election was it certainly was a repudiation of the more radical Islamist elements, that there was some concern that they were going to gain a greater foothold in the Pakistani parliament. And, in fact, the party of Benazir Bhutto, now under the hands of her husband, Mr. Zardari, had won the majority of seats, the People's Party of Pakistan had won the greatest number of seats in parliament and it appeared very likely at the time we were there that he would indeed put together a coalition government with Mr. Sharif, the former prime minister, and that would then be the ruling coalition in Pakistan. 
   The fate of Mr. Musharraf was at that time still pretty much in the balance. There had been a Senatorial delegation in just a few days before we were through who had suggested, I think it was in the newspapers phrased as a graceful exit. Mr. Musharraf recognized and there was acceptance and recognition that his role of necessity was going to change, but at the same time this is an individual who does care a great deal about his country and, of course, he has been a good ally and friend to the United States. And Mr. Musharraf did feel very strongly that he wanted to continue to play a role in the stability of his country. Mr. Musharraf's perspective of the border areas, the federally administered tribal areas between Afghanistan and Pakistan was again a little bit different from General Rodriguez's over in Pakistan. From Mr. Musharraf's perspective, they had been pursuing a good deal of military options. Not all of those had been successful and there was a concern on the part of the Pakistani military whether or not they were in fact actually trained and equipped to follow through with those missions, and certainly training and equipping the Pakistani army is something where the United States may continue to play a role for some time, though I would stress that the actual military presence in Pakistan is very, very minimal.     
   But the federally administered tribal area has become very problematic from the standpoint of terrorism. It is where the Taliban exists and where the remnants of al Qaeda are hiding out, and there are attempts to regroup and retake territory within the country of Afghanistan, and clearly it is an area that deserves a great deal of attention. 
   Mr. Speaker, I did promise to show some pictures. This is a picture of myself and Senator Hutchison from Texas meeting with Mr. Zardari. This is Benazir Bhutto's widower. We were that day in Pakistan discussing the role his coalition government would play in the future. 
   At the time we were there, it was not settled who the new prime minister would be. Obviously it would be someone who was elected in the People's Party of Pakistan because they held the largest number of seats in the Parliament. Mr. Zardari is someone I had never met before. In our discussions, he said all of the right things and in the right way. Obviously, in any situation like this, the follow-through is what is critical, so the next several weeks and months are critical for the stability of the country of Pakistan. 
   But Mr. Zardari was very gracious to have us into his home and meet with us. Remember, just a few short weeks before he had undergone a fairly wrenching personal episode with the loss of his wife after the assassination of Benazir Bhutto, and they appeared to be doing their best to recover as a family. And now, given the additional responsibilities of the governance of Pakistan, but he did seem to be growing into that role, and I will tell you that was reassuring to watch that.  
   Of course we were not able to meet with Mr. Sharif that day. We did meet with President Musharraf on that trip, but we were not able to meet with Mr. Sharif. Again, this is an area that will bear close scrutiny and watching over the next weeks and months because, again, as I will stress, each of these areas are so interrelated and so tied together. 
   Clearly the Afghanistan-Pakistan border area is one issue, but there are other links to other areas where terrorism is problematic that come out of that federally administered tribal area. The Spanish have discovered recently a link between some of their home-grown terrorists and the federally administered tribal area of Pakistan. Likewise, the Germans have discovered some terrorist links to Pakistan via Turkey. 
   In Britain, several of the terrorist groups within Great Britain can be traced to the federally administered tribal area, that border area between Afghanistan and Pakistan. So it is clear that terrorist activities taking place in that region of Pakistan are having a direct and profound effect on the security of European countries and certainly our NATO allies. 
   The terrorist activity has direct and dire consequences on foreign elections. We saw that happen in Spain several years ago when the March 11 bombings obviously or significantly influenced the outcome of the elections in that country. That behavior in turn led to a new government that then subsequently withdrew its troops from Afghanistan. And subsequently I think the mission was certainly not strengthened by that exercise. 
   But all in all, I would say it was a very informative trip, and I am grateful to President Musharraf and grateful to Mr. Zardari for meeting with us on relatively short notice during that trip. And there is no question, it was very informative to have that level of discussion. 
   I also made my seventh trip into the country of Iraq during that congressional delegation. I had last been in July of this past year, July of 2007. At that point I wasn't quite sure what I was going to find when I returned to Iraq that time. I found the situation to be much better than I expected it to be, and I will say that in the intervening 6 or 7 months since I was last there, the situation has improved even more. 
   No question about it, troop morale has always been good. I have never seen a problem with troop morale in any of the trips I have taken into Iraq. And in this past trip, it was nothing short of spectacular. 
   One of the things that was perhaps a little different about this trip and something that I really had not been able to do on previous trips was venture directly into some of the neighborhoods in and around Baghdad. The reason we were able to do that was because of the establishment of the joint security stations. These are the areas where American troops are embedded with Iraq security forces and Iraqi policemen. They are there side by side day in and day out. This was the concept that General David Petraeus brought to Iraq a year ago when the famous surge or reinforcements were brought into that country. It was a strategy not without some risk and certainly many of us were justifiably concerned about that. 
   I know in my trip into Iraq in July in the C-130 sitting with troops as we were going from Kuwait City into Baghdad, several voiced real concern that, you know, we are going to be living side by side with the Iraqis. If there is an interruption of fuel or material or food, then certainly we could be at risk in these situations because no longer will we be going back to the base every night. You could sense there was some concern. 
   The situation has been one that has been enormously successful. And as a consequence, the Iraqis have gained a great deal more confidence in the American troops that are there and their ability to provide security and to react quickly. And Iraqi citizens are coming forward with much more information, information about the location of IEDs, information about the bomb-making factories, and information about people who may be doing things that are harmful to a neighborhood. So it has been an overall improvement in the relationship between regular Iraqis and the American soldiers and an improvement in our ability to gather that all-important intelligence to be able to fight this war in the way it should be fought. 
   Again, I would stress that it is our men and the Iraqis living side by side. 
   Here we are just arriving at the joint security station. We are getting a briefing there just after arrival. At that point I think they were going over the briefing on the number of IED attacks, and there was basically a Google Earth map with all of the IED explosions plotted out on the map. Red ones were where people were hurt, and blue ones where a bomb went off and no one was hurt, and yellow was where the bomb was discovered after it went off. 
   July and August, those photographs were literally covered with dots of one color or another. And then going through month by month, August, September, October, the numbers diminished rapidly such that in December and January, there were very few dots on the map of any sort at all. And certainly you could see in a very graphical fashion the effect of having our troops embedded on the ground and living side by side with the Iraqis. 
   We had seen this in the summer, in the trip in July in the city of Ramadi out in Anbar province, and now that has been fairly widely reported that there has been the Anbar awakening and the Sunnis who previously would have perhaps partnered with al Qaeda to work against the Americans had changed allegiance and changed sides and saw now the Americans as their helpers and their friends, and the city of Ramadi was markedly different in July of 2007 from July of 2006. And as a consequence then, this 
   same sort of activity now going on in the area of Baghdad that would have been just absolutely impassable 6 months before in the month of July, and we were now able to walk around on the streets. 
   This is within the living quarters that the soldiers have there. The Minnesota National Guard had done some refurbishing and furnishing of the barracks there. They had tried to make it a little more homey. You can see the ubiquitous widescreen television at the top. This is a bench that had been fashioned out of some scrap wood that was around. And they had done a wonderful job as far as making the living conditions as good as could be expected. 
   Again, the morale of our soldiers was unlike anything I have ever seen. Clearly they understand what they are doing, and clearly they understand that they are very close to achieving success. It is something that I wish almost every Member of Congress could go over there and see in these joint security stations because it really is a moving experience. 
   As a consequence of these activities, al Qaeda that was so prevalent in Anbar province and along the Euphrates River Valley have been diminished to a minimum amount. Al Qaeda in Baghdad is significantly diminished as well. There are still some problems in the area around Sadr City, but with some of these embedded areas moving into that area, we will perhaps see some improvement there as well. 
   The former Sunni insurgents have turned their back on the insurgency. They are cooperating with coalition forces. That cooperation again is yielding good intelligence. In fact, in another part of this particular base where we were, this police station we were in, we got to see some of the surveillance activity as it was going on, and remarkable, remarkable efforts by our soldiers, by our men. 
   At one point a device had gone off and caused some injuries in the marketplace, and one of our young men painstakingly went back through the photos and tapes and actually discovered some physical characteristics of the individual that looked as if he may have planted the device. And then partly by luck but partly by good detective work, found that same man in a marketplace later on, brought him in for questioning, and certainly we were able to make the case of the connection between that individual and the bomb that had gone off. 
   One of the great things was that although the detective work was done by our soldiers with their equipment, when it came time to apprehend this individual, he was actually apprehended by the Iraqi police and brought in by the Iraqi police so the citizenry could see that their police force was up and running and functioning. 
   A good news story all along. But one disturbing note was on further study of  some of those surveillance photos, apparently this individual who had planted the explosive device had actually had his 3-year-old daughter carry the device to the area and place it in a trash receptacle and that is how the device came to be where it was. 
   Clearly we are dealing with a type of evil that most of us don't understand and can't understand. But this is the type of individual, this is the type of evil that is present in some of these areas, and this is the work that our soldiers are doing to combat that. 
   Again, this is a police station in inner city Baghdad. Six months ago I couldn't have gone there. Certainly 2 years ago there is no way. But now the Iraqi police are taking over. People feel safe. They feel safe to approach local law enforcement. In fact, when we left the building from this police station, out on the street a group of Iraqi men came up and was eager to talk with us. One of the soldiers found a translator for us, and we engaged in quite a lively conversation. To be perfectly honest, it was gratitude that was expressed on the part of the Iraqis who were there, gratitude for helping get their neighborhood back, and gratitude for helping get their country back. Again, it is the type of progress that you almost can't believe if you can't go there and see it yourself. 
   Mr. Speaker, one of the funny things is if this had been a year ago and we were here talking about Iraq, we would be talking about having yet another vote to get us out of Iraq. It seemed like every week we had that type of vote here on the floor of the House. And we are not doing that so much any more. I wonder why. Perhaps because things have gotten so much better there. 
   The news stories a year ago, day in and day out, a bad news story out of Iraq. Well, now you don't see those stories every day. You see odd stories like Ahmadinejad from Iran coming in to visit in Iraq, which I think is problematic. I wish it hadn't happened. But on the other hand, Iraq is a sovereign country and if Prime Minister Maliki wants to meet with Ahmadinejad, I guess. In fact, we have a Presidential candidate who said he will sit down with his enemies. Maybe Mr. Maliki had been listening to that Presidential candidate. I didn't think it was perhaps the wisest and best use of his time. After all, Mr. Speaker, a lot of the explosively formed projectiles that are so deadly, a lot of the IEDs and improvised explosive devices are made with materials that clearly come from the country of Iran.     
   And that has been problematic for many, many months. And Iran's activity as far as continuing some of the disruption in this area, Iran's activity, has indeed, I think, been problematic. 
   We hear a lot about the lack of political progress, and those talking points probably need to be updated. The Iraqi parliament recently passed four major pieces of legislation. They passed the de-Ba'athification reform, they passed an amnesty bill, they passed a provisional powers law, and a national budget. No question about it, there's still a lot of work to be done and that budget execution is one of those things that I watch very carefully because I don't know, you know, quite honestly, with the infrastructure that is there with their banking system, it's very, very difficult to distribute money to the local areas where it is so desperately needed. 
   But nevertheless, they are making the efforts. In fact, there are four things that the Iraqi parliament did this past year. I don't know what our track record is. I think we banned the incandescent light. I don't know that we've done much more in the past year, and there's four things that they've done. 
   One of the biggest changes that I saw last July and one of the things that really gave me great optimism, that one day we would have in Iraq a stable country that was able to govern itself, provide for its own security, provide for its own people and be a partner for peace in the Middle East. 
   Last summer visiting the city of Ramadi where the local political leaders, the local political shift that had gone on in that country; to be sure, the central government in Baghdad has some problems and they're going to have to work through those problems; they're going to have to find solutions to those problems, as any country would. But the fact that local leaders, like a county commissioner, like a mayor, like a county administrator, these are the guys and ladies on the front line. These are the ones the citizens turn to for help when things don't work right, when things go wrong. These are the individuals that should be the first line of contact. And indeed, in the city of Ramadi last summer and then again in this neighborhood, the al Hamandiyah neighborhood in Baghdad, the local political shift was very much in evidence. The local leaders were stepping up and doing the work that is required of local leaders. Still some difficulty getting the funding from the central government, but my understanding on this last trip was that that had improved even from 6 or 7 months before. Obviously, again, that's going to bear watching. And there are lots of areas in need of improvement. But all in all, the progress is going in the right direction. 
   You see that in other things, too. The national electricity hours are up. Some small water projects that were so desperately needed have now been completed. Some primary health care centers have been constructed and more are to open, all signs of progress. That was work you just couldn't do a couple of years ago because the security situation just would not permit it. 
   Again, Mr. Speaker, I remember very well the arguments and discussions and debate we had on the floor of this House just a little over a year ago in regards to what General Petraeus saw, what General Petraeus wanted to do, and giving him the ability, the tools to do that job consumed a lot of our discussion a year ago. But I've got to tell you, I'm glad we found the right man for the job. I'm glad we gave him the tools that he needs. And he certainly seems to be pursuing success with all due dispatch. 
   It's hard to know what the next steps are. You hear a lot of people talk about the troop drawdown that was essentially the surge, and as those numbers come back down are we going to come down below that. We're going to have to have a wait-and-see period. Obviously, in my mind, my opinion, those decisions should not be made by those of us here in the House. Those are decisions that should be made by the military generals on the ground. 
   We did have an opportunity in this trip, as we did last summer, to meet with David Petraeus at some length. We met with the general. We also met with Ambassador Ryan Crocker, a true patriot who's given now a year of his life to be in that country and to provide stability in that country. Things have not always gone to his liking, I'm sure, but nevertheless, I think he can point to a great deal of success. 
   I remember a year ago so clearly, you know, you could take data points almost and make whatever kind of case you wanted to make in Iraq. And General Petraeus stressed to us a year ago that it would be important to look at trend lines over time, that you just simply couldn't look at a collection of data points and make a decision. 
   When we visited with General Petraeus at the American embassy in Iraq, we kind of saw a preview of what he's likely to present to Congress when he comes back in March or April to give his interim report to Congress. He had a variety of charts up. You could see that the trend lines again were all moving in the right direction as far as number of attacks, as far as attacks on citizens, attacks on soldiers. The trend lines for things like electricity and water were going in the right direction, which was up. All in all, the story coming out was very positive. At the time we were there, something had just occurred which was a point of not some insignificant concern, the activity of the Turkish troops on the northern border which had the potential to be very destabilizing because, of course, the Kurdish regiments in that area have been functioning very well, and the fact now that they were being faced with some Turkish soldiers who had come across the border to deal with some terrorism aspects that they thought were going on along the border, clearly that needed to be managed and managed very quickly and apparently has been. But it did have the potential to become much more serious than it was. 
   I stated early on in the hour that there might be a place to draw the  FISA, Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, back into the discussion. And certainly that came up during our discussion with the general and the ambassador at the American embassy, or at the embassy in Baghdad that night. 
   Again, remember, we're talking about not surveillance on someone who's in Dallas calling someone who's in Washington. We're talking about surveillance on someone who is in perhaps one of those federally administered tribal areas in Pakistan or someone who's in Afghanistan communicating with someone in Iraq, because that method of communication may be putting up a Web site. There may be an embedded message on a Web site. But because that Web site may be carried on wires that go through the United States of America, then suddenly it becomes something that is under the jurisdiction, in some people's mind, of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. And in order to find out who put the Web site up, you'd have to go through the FISA Court to get that information. But these Web sites tend to be rather ephemeral. They don't stay up that long. But it's problematic because you can't know who put up the Web site. You can't know who visited the Web site. And if you need to, you can't take it down without going through a 72-hour process in the FISA Court. 
   A little less than a year ago, when some of our soldiers were kidnapped in Iraq, we gave their captors a 10-hour head start because of issues with the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and having to go through the courts to get permission. You can't fight a war that way. We're either serious or we're not serious. And I think because of the concern that I heard over being able to protect not just our troops over there, but protect American citizens here at home, I think this is a critical piece of legislation. 
   Again, if we would just simply take up the legislation as passed by the Senate, passed overwhelmingly in the Senate, there are enough Members on my side, there are enough Members on the other side that this bill would be passed and America's protection could once again be more secure. In the meantime, we're playing a very dangerous, dangerous game, not only with our homeland security here in the United States but also as it turns out with our soldiers who are doing so much for us over in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
   We talk about a war on terror, but the reality is we're fighting a war against radical Islam. Terror is one of the tactics that's used in that fight. I don't think there's any question that we need to keep our focus on each of those countries, Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan, certainly redouble our efforts in Afghanistan and really begin thinking long term. You know, we hear people who want to have an 8-month time line. They want to talk about, between here and November, the election day in November. 
   The enemy doesn't have a time line that's that short. The enemy has a time line that's years, decades or longer. And you almost have to think in those terms to be able to satisfactorily prepare and satisfactorily protect our country, because if you're just short-term focused on what happens between now and election day in November, that's probably not going to be sufficient for protecting America. Our enemies are thinking in terms of 100 years. Maybe we need to think in terms of 100 years. Certainly, our America and our allies have to be able to match and keep up with them every step of the way. 
   Each of these battles is winnable. There's no question. From a tactical and strategic standpoint there is no one who can stand up against the United States, so the battles are winnable, but they're not yet won. 
   Again, success in one conflict means success in the other. Failure in one means failure elsewhere. You know, in fact that's not just the Middle East. That's in the United States and possibly extending to other freedom-loving nations in the world. 
   It is not time for us to pull our forces down and just think about coming home. We are very close to, again, establishing on the ground in the country of Iraq a country that is responsible to its people, provides for their benefit and their welfare, is a stable partner for peace in the Middle East. Those are worthwhile goals and we need to continue to pursue those. 
   It is a time that calls for statesmen and not politicians. It does require a vision that does encompass a time line that is longer than just the next 8 months. 
   I can't say it often enough. You're going to have to look to the next generation. You can't just focus on the next election because that's the wrong perspective to have. 
   I want to thank our troops who are working over there day and night in our behalf. It is sometimes seemingly thankless work, but again, I would stress, well, let me just show you one more picture, Mr. Speaker. And although these individuals are dressed in military uniforms, they're actually Department of Defense civilians. They work on the mine resistant ambush protected vehicle facility near Camp Victory just outside of Baghdad. These vehicles, and you can see one in the background, a very heavily armored vehicle. They are built to withstand the mine blasts and the IED blasts. And you see a group of very, very dedicated individuals standing there around that vehicle, very proud of the work they do. Most of these individuals, again, the men and women are civilians from my home State of Texas, not in my district, but up in northeast Texas, the Red River Army depot near Texarkana. In fact, most of the people that we see in the picture are very likely constituents of my neighbor and good friend Ralph Hall. But again clearly proud of the work they are doing. They understand the value that they bring, the benefit that they bring to our soldiers by providing this type of vehicle. They don't have the best shock absorbers in the world, but they are certainly functional and certainly are providing a great deal of protection for our troops. I can't say enough about the wonderful people that are defending us in all three countries. Also in Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. We had a brief refueling stop in the United Arab Emirates and got to meet with some soldiers there, a wonderful group of people who are working their hearts out on behalf of their country. The least we can do here in the United States Congress is offer them our faithful support until their mission is complete. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (PAUL WELLSTONE MENTAL HEALTH AND ADDICTION EQUITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, as a physician, I understand the high cost of treating mental illness and substance abuse. I am also personally familiar with how the cost of this care can keep people from receiving the help that they need. But the bill before us does not solve the problem. In fact, it creates some new ones. 
   The bill is problematic for a multitude of reasons, and we can visit but a few of them. No insurance plan covers every possible physical diagnosis. Then why are we insisting that insurance plans cover every possible mental health or addiction diagnosis no matter the medical significance? 
   This bill will cost Americans more money and could cost Americans health benefits. According to the CBO, H.R. 1424 will drive up the cost of health insurance for everyone and lead some employers to drop mental health insurance benefits completely. 
   Another problem is the codification of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. The DSM-IV is not designed for legal use. It was designed for clinicians so we can adequately diagnose and adequately measure the response to therapy. 
   The Senate bill, on the other hand, is reasonable. It has been developed with input from patient advocates, mental health providers, and employers. This bill has offsets, and the offsets are counterproductive, such as limiting physician ownership in specialty hospitals. They are very few in number, but specialty hospitals are strong in quality and performance. Maybe that is why the Democrats feared them: They represent high-quality performance that results from competition. 
   For example, in my area in Texas, Baylor Health in Dallas was named the recipient of the National Quality Forum's 2008 National Quality Healthcare Award. Baylor has a joint venture, a partnership, with physicians sharing ownership of its facility. The bill before us today jeopardizes the high level of care and patient access to care provided by facilities such as Baylor. 
   The basis for savings calculated by the Congressional Budget Office is flawed data; and quite frankly, it is not relevant to the delivery of health care in the 21st century. And once again, we have another example of how this House leadership will choose politics over policy to the detriment of the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SITUATION IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - September 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. And I appreciate the gentleman for yielding. 
   Indeed, I did take my sixth trip to Iraq in July, a weekend trip. And believe it or not, it is possible to make a weekend trip to Baghdad. 
   I've got to tell you, Mr. Speaker, I was concerned. The 10 months prior to my going, we've had just a litany of one bad story after another come out of Iraq, and I was concerned about what I was going to find. 
   The story is a mixed story. I suspect next week when we do hear the report from General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker, we'll get a mixed report. 
   But I've just got to tell you, it was a vastly different condition on the ground that I saw than what I had been led to believe I would encounter with reading the stories in the paper. 
   Now, just over a year ago I was there. There's a lot that's changed in Iraq. There's a lot that's changed here at home since that year's time. Concerned about what I would find, and again, made the trip over a relatively condensed time frame, we left for Baghdad really early in the morning out of Kuwait City on a C-130. 
   And Mr. Speaker, you always hear people criticize us on these trips. They say, well, you just saw what they wanted you to see. They just trotted out the dog-and-pony show for you and you bought it. 
   But the reality is you get on a C-130, 3 or 4 or in the morning, it's already 90,  95 degrees. You're put in the back of a C-130 with troops being moved into one theater or another. And they don't pick the guys that happen to show up at the airport that morning. You go with whoever is going in or out of the country. 
   Now, when you're on the plane, it's just too noisy and hot and dark to talk. But as the plane landed when we got to Baghdad and they bring the engines down and you can actually hear again, the soldiers that were around became anxious to talk to me when they found out who I was and why I was there. 
   Most of them, it was their second or third rotation. Their deployments had been extended to 15 months, and most of the guys that were on that plane wouldn't see home again for almost a year. 
   Since February, there's been a big change in how they do their job. They're placed alongside Iraqi soldiers in smaller groups, both in Baghdad and out in the provinces, and they're no longer attached to this larger and more protected military base. And clearly, they're seeing a greater amount of activity and, to a large degree, that concerned them. 
   The fellow that was just right across from me I actually spoke with in some depth, and he'd been reading a book all during this hot plane ride for 2 hours from Kuwait City into Baghdad. 
   He obviously voiced a concern. He wondered if the General Officer Corps even knew what they were up to, even knew what they were doing. He wondered if they knew what they were up against. He did complain about the long hours. He complained about the heat. He complained about being separated from his family. 
   Mr. Speaker, he'd been reading a book intently while we were on the plane. And I asked him about this. I said, What book are you reading? And he said it was a book about philosophy. So I naturally assumed that at the end of his deployment he'd be coming home to perhaps finish school, or maybe he had a job waiting for him, and I asked him about this. And he looked at me very strangely and said, I just signed up for five more years. 
   You know, it's that kind of ambiguity, it's that kind of enigma that confronts you when you're in Iraq. Things just don't add up the way you think that they might. 
   Now, we got off that plane and we all went our separate ways. We were taken into the town of Ramadi. And a year ago, there would have been no way to go to Ramadi. We visited with the mayor. 
   And again, as Mr. Akin just alluded to, the good news story coming of out of Iraq is the building up of those institutions of local government just like we have here in this country, county governments, city governments that are doing the really hard work. They're doing reconciliation at the city level, at the provincial level. If it takes the central government a while longer to catch up with them, I've got a lot of hope based on what I saw on the ground. 
   But what really gives me hope is what I saw in the market in Ramadi. Look at the faces on these two young guys. We were just out there walking in the market just in an area that a year ago it had been so dangerous no one in their right mind would have taken us there. 
   Let me just show you this other picture that gives you some idea of the types of thing for sale in the market. Again, it looks like a typical marketplace anywhere you'd find in the Middle East, Jordan or Saudi Arabia. A lot of stuff for sale. I don't know where the stuff comes from, but a lot of stuff for sale. And again, clearly the people who were there did not look to be particularly stressed or aggrieved. They looked half curious and happy to see us. In fact, the kids were starting school in a couple of weeks and would come up to us and ask us for pens and quarters. Apparently our military had given them a good deal of coaching on the kinds of things you can get from a codel as it walks through town. 
   Mr. Speaker, I will conclude here and leave the remaining time to my friend from Texas. I will say I do believe it is in America's interest that we finish the job. The next 30 years will look starkly different if we're successful versus if we're a failure. 
   I will yield back to the gentleman from Tennessee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (EXPRESSING THE CONDOLENCES OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ON THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE PAUL E. GILLMOR, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE STATE OF OHIO -- (House of Representatives - September 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank  him for convening this resolution this evening and I thank the Ohio delegation for allowing me to be part of this remembrance of the life of our friend Paul Gillmor. Like everyone else, I was shocked and saddened this morning to hear the news about the loss of our friend. 
   We have heard several people talk about Mr. Gillmor and his work on the committee. I remember last year in the 109th Congress when he was the subcommittee chairman and the work he did on persistent organic pollutants. It really was not something I had ever thought about before I came to Congress, it really wasn't something I ever campaigned on, but Paul had a way of explaining it and making it understandable and worked through a very complex issue working with both sides of the committee dais to get meaningful legislation passed. 
   Then at the end of the 109th Congress, after the election, coming back for the 110th Congress, and someone explained to me the arithmetic that happens when you lose the majority, and counting on my fingers the number of seats we had lost on the Energy and Commerce Committee and I was no longer going to be on that committee, and then later Paul came to me and said, ``Doc, you are too important on that committee, so I am going to stay on Financial Services and I will take a leave from Energy and Commerce.'' 
   You heard Ranking Member Barton mention it. You heard Leader Boehner mention it. I was the guy that he let stay on the committee by his selfless act of taking a leave of absence from a committee that he loved, committee work he loved to do. I thank him so much for giving me the opportunity to stay on the committee. 
   Of course, we welcomed him back a few weeks ago when we needed that extra vote when we were discussing energy legislation. And, sure enough, Paul was there not just to be a vote, but he brought amendments with him. He tied things up. He behaved just like the Paul Gillmor that I had remembered on the committee from the year before. 
   So, to his family, I wanted you to know, you had heard me mention before how selfless Paul was about giving up a place on the committee. I am the guy that he let stay on the committee. I will never forget that, and I will always try to live up to his expectations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (FEDERAL PRICE GOUGING PREVENTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - May 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
   Mr. Speaker, I have grave concerns about the bill before us today, specifically the lack of clarity in defining ``unconscionable.'' I believe this term to be ambiguous, and, in fact, could lead to severe supply shortages in times of national emergency. 
   Under this proposal, a gasoline station owner could receive civil and criminal penalties totaling $5 million and 10 years in prison for charging ``unconscionable'' prices. Yet there is no clear definition for what is unconscionable. 
   To add insult to injury, if a station owner were to charge less than the market price, he could also be subject to charges of undercutting the market. Were I a gasoline station owner in a time of crisis, I likely would shut down my pumps and sell Snickers bars and Coca-Colas and try to make money that way. 
   I am not defending those who would charge unfairly. I firmly believe, and, in fact, in my home State of Texas, we have a strong antigouging price statute already on the books. If it is determined that illegal pricing has occurred, the individuals should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. 
   But let's be sure we do not create a climate which causes business owners to stop selling gasoline at a time in crisis when we so clearly will need those resources. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the requisite number of words. 
   I come to the floor because of the inspiration of the ranking member of my committee, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, who came and disclosed for the body the earmarks that he had in the bill. I would like to take this opportunity to disclose the earmarks that I have in the homeland security bill as reported to me by my staff. The number is zero. 
   But, still, the argument that goes on here today is important. We just heard a scholarly discussion about the budget that was passed by the new majority. The reality is, a lot of those fully funding issues are in what are called ``reserve funds.'' The gentleman mentioned specifically SCHIP. We have been working on that in my committee for months now. I will tell you, the funds are not there. The reserve funds are sort of like sending a get-well card to a Federal program that is going to expire on September 30 of this year because we have not yet done the work to extend it. 
   Mr. Chairman, I also feel obligated to point out that certainly there are many times during the last 4 years that I have been here, again as just a simple country doctor who came to Congress, but there have been many times that I have been here that I have felt that our side was spending too much money. However many times I felt that way, I cannot escape the feeling that now we are fixing to spend that and a great deal more, and that does sadden me. 
   I think, more to the point, the bill that is under discussion today is a bill that is extremely important to this country, and I think it is a shame that a new majority that campaigned on the concept of openness and being transparent about the process now has decided that there is value in opacity and intends to obscure the process as much as they possibly can. 
   It is one thing to decide that that is the correct way to govern, but don't campaign on that issue. Don't promise what you can't deliver. If you cannot be open about your method of governing, then please don't run on that as an issue in the future. 
   Mr. Chairman, I would now like to yield as much time as I have remaining to the gentleman from North Carolina. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I have no earmark in this bill, but had I had an earmark in this bill, I would have had to submit that the middle of March, 3 months ago. 
   As the gentleman from North Carolina so correctly points out, this is not new information. This information has been percolating somewhere within the committee for the last 3 months' time. 
   Mr. Chairman, I will be glad to yield the remainder of my time to the gentleman from Ohio. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Reclaiming my time, the ranking member of my committee came to the floor and said he had two earmarks in the bill. So I submit to you that there are earmarks in the bill, and we should be discussing that; that should be part of the new open and transparent Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (CONDITIONS AT WALTER REED ARMY MEDICAL CENTER -- (House of Representatives - March 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank him for convening this hour this 
   evening. I think it was extremely important, extremely timely that we have this discussion on the House floor, and I am especially glad that we have been joined by such prestigious members on the House Armed Services Committee because I think their words certainly add much more than what I would be able to bring to the subject. 
   I will just have to say I went to Walter Reed this afternoon, asked to go last week, because I thought it was important as one of the medical professionals in Congress that I go out and just look and see is there anything that causes me grief, that causes me concern. I will have to say I was not upset about the things that I expected to be upset about, and I was upset about things that never would have occurred to me to be upset about, and let me elucidate that a little bit if I can. 
   Of course I read the stories in the newspapers last week, and I expected to be upset about the physical condition of the building, and the building in question, Building 18, which is just across the street from the Commanding General's residence at the Walter Reed Medical Garrison there in Northeast Washington. 
   Indeed, the building is not the nicest of buildings in Washington, D.C., and I am sure there has been some attention to some of the problems that had already been rendered to the building in  the week between the time the story broke and the time that I got out there, but in general, if you stop and think about what this housing was designed to do, it was obviously to provide a place for soldiers to stay while their medical conditions were evaluated, but while they decided do they stay in the military, do they get out, if they are able to undergo the physical processes for rehabilitation or allowed to stay in the military, how much time is going to be required. This location, Building 18, being outside the medical garrison of Walter Reed Hospital, had some appeal because it was outside the garrison, and as a consequence there was perhaps a little more freedom, a little more freedom of movement. There is a parking garage underneath it, not quite the same level of restriction that you have within the medical garrison itself. 
   So the actual physical condition of the building, again, I am sure it had received some attention between the time the story broke and I got out there, was less distressing to me than some of the things that I heard that our wounded soldiers have to go through. 
   I snapped a picture while I was out there. The gentleman talked about the massive amounts of regulation and red tape. Here is a gentleman going through his medical records. I do not think this picture does it justice, but this is about the size of the Dallas phonebook that he has got in front of him. These are his medical records he has got spread out on the table, and he is trying to put them in some semblance of order so he can make his case for the time he gets out of the military to assess his degree of disability if he were to wish to stay in, to be able to make the argument that he would be able to stay in the military. 
   But an individual such as this, and this individual, in fact, was part of the Medical corps, you can see on his shoulder patch there. So he had some knowledge of the types of record he was reviewing on his own behalf. Just imagine someone without any medical expertise having to go through these numbers of records, and then what if it all gets lost, which unfortunately happens. 
   Twenty-four hours total time that he spent in assembling these records, and unfortunately, he told me, it is not an infrequent occurrence, it is not just that a soldier's appointment would be canceled, that they expected for a few weeks time. It is not just that the ride to the hospital did not materialize, but this amount of work going into essentially what will define his future could be misplaced, and in this day and age, when we talk about the computerization of medical records, we talk about the VA system being on an electronic medical records system, there is no way right now for these medical records generated by the Department of Defense to talk to the medical records in the VA system. 
   So it is a lot of work that we ask these folks to go through on their own behalf, and unfortunately, it can occur that after putting all those hours in this record ends up on the wrong place on someone's desk, and when the time comes to retrieve it, it cannot be found. 
   That was a one of the things, again, I never expected to see today when I went to the hospital but certainly caught my attention when I visited. 
   I would stress, and just like the chairman, just like my friend from Texas, I too have been to Landstuhl Hospital in Germany, spent a good deal of time on two separate occasions at the field hospital in Balad, Iraq, and spent some time at the Ebosina Hospital in downtown Baghdad last summer. In fact, that is the hospital where the famed Baghdad ER show was taped, and I would have to say through all of that exposure to the medical care available to our soldiers in the field, the so-called down range exposure, their medical care is top notch. 
   I had an emergency room physician, an orthopedist in Balad, Iraq, tell me he had medicines and treatments at his disposal out in the field that he would never have had available to him in downtown Cincinnati. It is that training, that expertise that he gains dealing with those new treatments and those new therapies that will then make him a better physician, and he acknowledged this. I will be a better doctor when I go back to take care of the civilians in Cincinnati, Ohio, than I was before I left because of my experience here in Balad. 
   I have heard other people refer to it, but certainly we have many, many dedicated men and women in the medical staff, the nursing staff at Walter Reed Hospital and our other fine military hospitals, and it does pain me somewhat to think that these individuals are also reading these stories. They go to work every day to do their best work. They go to work every day to take care of the genuine American hero, and then they hear their efforts and their professions demeaned in the press. 
   I know how disheartening that can be and I would say to those individuals working in the Medical corps in our military hospitals and the Nursing corps in our military hospitals, God bless you. Thank you for what you do because individuals like this who, in another time and another place, might not have had such a happy outcome, he, in fact, is looking forward to a return to civilian life and being quite productive thanks to the expert care that he received at Walter Reed Hospital.     
   One thing that I do want to bring up because it is terribly important, the Wounded Warrior Transition Brigade, which was just announced last week and has been formed this week. Major General Eric Schoomaker, who is the new command at Walter Reed Hospital, this establishes essentially a patient advocate in uniform, patient advocacy within a military context. 
   This is one of the things, when we hear about the failures of leadership that resulted in some of the problems that have surfaced at Walter Reed Hospital, this was the type of leadership that was lacking. So these small brigades, which will now be composed of one leader with 17 men or women under his command in those units who are awaiting a medical decision on their military future, certainly tightening up that ratio between leader and the number of men and women in the cohort will significantly improve things, I think, as far as the advocacy for our heroes. 
   So the gentleman from Texas was very kind to call me down and let me participate in this. I thank you very much for your leadership on this. It is extremely timely and extremely important. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (THE STATE OF HEALTH CARE IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - June 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I came to the floor of the House tonight to talk, as I frequently do, about the state of health care in this country and some things that may be on the cusp of change and some things that will never change. But I want to start off tonight by talking about what is going to happen to physicians across this country on July 1st, less than a month from now, as far as their Medicare reimbursements. 
   Now, you may recall I was on the floor of the House last December talking about the need for addressing the reduction of reimbursement rates for physicians across the country. The best we could come up with on the floor of this House was to stall that 10.7 percent reduction in reimbursement for Medicare patients. The best we could come up with was to stall that for 6 months' time. We told ourselves at the time that this gives us a little more time that we can work on a solution that is more meaningful. We want to work on a bigger and grander solution. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, what has happened? The days and months have ticked by, and now we are less than 4 weeks away from that day when physicians will wake up and find that their reimbursement for seeing a Medicare patient is now 10.9 percent less than it was the day before. 
   Is this really a big deal? Well, yeah, it is a big deal, because everywhere across the country currently new Medicare patients call up physicians' offices trying to be seen and they find the same situation over and over again. They can barely get the word ``Medicare'' out of their mouths before they are told by that physician's office that we are not taking any new Medicare patients. And why? Why is that happening? Because of the activities, or, in this case, the inactivity of the United States Congress, of the United States House of Representatives. 
   It is imperative, it is imperative that we address this issue. It is imperative that we address it in a forward-thinking way so that we solve the problem once and for all and we don't have to come back here year after year and face the same problem over and over again, or, as is the case this year, every 6 months and face the problem over and over again. 
   I have advocated for such a fix many different times on the floor of this House. It has been very difficult to get colleagues on both sides of the aisle to embrace this concept and understand that we must move forward from where we are now. We need a short-term, midterm and long-term solution to this problem. 
   What have we done? Again, we find ourselves just about to go over the cliff, just about to fall over the precipice, where once again we tell the Medicare patients of this country that we don't care about them. We tell the physicians who are seeing Medicare patients in this country that we don't value your service and we are going to hit you with a 10.7 percent cut. And that is not the end of it. December 31st, there will be another 5 percent reduction, so a grand total of 15 percent in reduction of Medicare reimbursement before we reach the end of this year. 
   Mr. Speaker, can you imagine any other business going into their banker and saying, you know what? I have got a great business plan here. I am going to start a business, or expand my business, because, after all, a physician's office is a small business. I am going to go into business or expand my business, and here is my business plan. And the banker looks at it and says, I see it says here you are going to earn 15 percent less this year than you are earning next year on each patient interaction. How in the world could you expect to be able to maintain your business with this type of business plan?     
   Reality is this type of business plan would not fly anywhere in this country, and yet we are asking over and over again our doctors, our clinics, our health care providers to live under this regimen. 
   Now, when I address the need for a short-term, mid-term, and long-term solution, let me just lay out for you what I have in mind. The short-term solution is available to us right now. We could delay these cuts to the Medicare reimbursement rate. We could do that by passage of a simple measure that was introduced the last week of May, H.R. 6129. This is a bill that is fully paid for, fully paid for and would forestall the 10.7 percent cut July 1, and the 5 percent cut December 31, to February 1. That is not a great length of time, but it allows us a little more time to work on this problem, actually gets us past the first of the year so that we get to the organization of a new Congress. And maybe, if we did our homework and did our legislative work before we all went home and campaigned for reelection, maybe if we did that work in July and August and September of this year, we could actually have ready to go a package for the new Congress to pass shortly after the first of the year that would deal with this problem. 
   But it is a paid for solution. It doesn't expand the deficit. It actually uses the same mechanism that was used by the Medicaid moratorium that we all passed. I think there were 300 favorable votes for that Medicaid moratorium on the floor of the House a few weeks ago. This is the same mechanism of taking the money out of the physicians assistance quality initiative to pay for this fix on the physicians payment. It would not expand the deficit, and it would get us passed the first of the year. 
   The cuts that are looming ahead of us under a formula called the sustainable growth rate formula are going to be significantly pernicious, not just to keep our doctors in business, but to keep our doctors seeing our patients, our Medicaid patients, arguably some of the most complex patients there will be in any medical practice because they have multiple simultaneous conditions. 
   We are going to prevent those patients from having access to a physician because we are telling the doctors that we don't value their service, and we are telling the patients that we don't value their ability to have access to their doctors who prescribe their treatments, who offer those treatments that are going to keep them living longer and healthier lives. 
   And there is an unintended consequence to this as well. The unintended consequence is that many of the private insurance companies across the country actually peg their rates to what Medicare reimburses. So they have a contract that says we will pay, in the case of TRICARE, 85 percent of the Medicare usual and customary. In the case of some of the other private insurers, it is a little more generous, they pay 110 percent or 115 percent of Medicare rates. But all of those rates are going to be reduced when Medicare rates in turn are reduced if we don't act by the first of July. And actually, the way things work in Washington, if  we don't have something pretty concrete on the table by the middle of June, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services is going to be required to go ahead and put forward their rules and regulations for when this new fee schedule goes into effect July 1. 
   And make no mistake about it. We can tell ourselves that, oh, we will have time to come back in July and fix this and we will make it retroactive. But we don't make it retroactive for the private insurers who peg to Medicare. And the reality is we are talking about such small volumes on every explanation of benefits that comes through the physician's office that it becomes extremely tedious and time consuming and expensive to track all of these and make certain that the government makes good on its promise and comes back and delivers that. 
   And how do I know this? I know this because when our side was in charge with the passage of the Deficit Reduction Act right at the end of 2005, because of a technical problem we didn't get actually the bill passed until the first part of January of 2006, and as a consequence the language in the Deficit Reduction Act that would have prevented a programmed reduction in Medicare reimbursement rates, that did not go into effect until well into the month of January 2006. And, again, we had to come back and retroactively make all of these practices whole. And just as a practical matter it becomes very, very difficult for the doctor's office to keep track of that and make certain that in fact those reimbursements were brought up to speed. 
   The other aspect of this, the mid-term and the long-term aspect, and I have advocated for this for some time. We need to pass legislation that will put us on a path to repeal the sustainable growth rate formula. This is a formula that year over year reduces the rate at which physicians are reimbursed. The reality is Congress almost never sees that through. We always come in and do something to keep our doctors from having to sustain those large cuts in their practice. But every year we come up against this precipice, we come up against this cliff, and every year the doctors' offices are having to make plans for their future. Do they buy new equipment? Do they hire a new partner? Do they bring on additional personnel? Well, they can't tell because they don't know what we are going to do to them in Medicare at the end of the year or, in this case, in the middle of the year. 
   So we need a method of repealing the sustainable growth rate formula. We have all discussed this. The cost associated with the repeal of that from the Congressional Budget Office is high. So what I have recommended in the past is we put ourselves on a path; we put ourselves on a trajectory to repeal this formula, do it over a couple year's time, get some savings in the meantime to offset that cost. And we all know that those savings are built into the system and they are accruing every day. But rather than having those savings go to part A of Medicare, let's hold them in part B and reduce the cost of repealing the sustainable growth rate formula. And then ultimately, in 2 years' time or so, repeal the SGR formula once and for all and put the Nation's physicians on what is called the Medicare Economic Index. 
   This is not a formula that I derived; it was created by the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, the MedPAC Commission several years ago, and it is essentially a cost of living adjustment, the same cost of living adjustment that hospitals receive, the same update that insurance companies receive, the same update that drug companies receive. Let's put part B, the physician's part of Medicare, on that same level playing field with the other participants in part A, part C, and part D of Medicare. 
   So I did want to get that out there. I encourage my colleagues to look at H.R. 6129. This is an important piece of legislation. It is a rope to throw to the Nation's physicians and patients that are already on their way over the cliff. It is a cliff that we created for them. We gave them the push over the edge. The least we can do at this point is to offer them a little bit of help so that they don't come crashing down at the bottom of that cliff. 
   Now, the reality is this is only for 7 months' time. This does not take any of the heat off of any of us, that we still need to work on that long-term solution. I 
   actually offered this particular bill as an amendment to the Medicaid moratorium a few weeks ago in committee, and I was told, oh, no, no, no, we can't do that; because if we do that, then the people who might be working on solving this problem will know that the pressure is off and they don't have to work on it. I beg to differ. The pressure will still be on. The mid-term and long-term solutions still are out there to be had, and it will be incumbent upon this Congress, particularly here we are going into an election year, Do you want to go home and talk to your doctor groups around in your district and say: You know what? We just didn't think we had the time to fix this problem that you all are up against, so shortly after I am sworn in next year you will be looking at a 15 percent reduction in your payment rates. And, do you really want to go home and talk to your patients, who already call up their physician's office and say, I am sorry, I am not taking any new Medicare patients; do you really want to go home and face those patients in your town halls when they find out that you didn't lift a finger, you didn't lift a finger to keep this from happening when we all knew it was coming? We knew it was coming last December, and the best we could do was 6 months is the best we can manage. We knew it was coming all spring. We know it is coming now. 
   Let's fix this. This short-term solution is paid for. It is not going to expand the deficit. No tax increase has to result. It is there. The money is there. We took the money from the same place that the other side took the money for the Medicaid moratorium. Let's take that money and fix this problem short term, and then get on about fixing it long term. 
   Mr. Speaker, the real reason I came to floor tonight until this other problem took precedence was to talk a little bit about an event we had up here on Capitol Hill about 2 months ago now, and it was done to capture some of the successes that are happening out there in the real world as far as it relates to delivery of health care in this country. This was a symposium that was held on April 8 of this year, was done in conjunction with the Center for Health Transformation. Many people will recognize that organization. This is the organization that was founded and is still run by the former Speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich. He was very kind and generous with his time that day and came to this meeting over in the Rayburn Building, and we talked a little bit about some of the things that are working out there in the real world. Because, after all, Mr. Speaker, do we really want to give up a measure of our freedom in this country? And that is what it would entail if we go to a much more restrictive type of delivery of health care in this country. 
   Freedom is the foundation of life in America, and unlimited options, unlimited opportunities are something every single one of us on both sides of the aisle takes for granted and will embrace when we give our talks at home, whether it be on Memorial Day or Independence Day. We like to talk about how the freedom of America makes us the greatest country on earth. 
   Freedom is transformative. Freedom is the basis for what we should be doing when we look at how we can transform the Nation's health care system. And innovation goes hand in hand with those choices. 
   Come to think of it, Mr. Speaker, when I was a youngster in medical school many, many years ago, I would have never thought we would have seen the day where you could go on the Internet, just an average person, you don't need a doctor's order, you don't need a ton of money; you can go on the Internet and get your human genome sequenced for you individually for less than $1,000. Never when I was in medical school would I have thought you would be able to go on the Internet and get such information. In fact, I wouldn't have known what the Internet was when I was medical school because Al Gore hadn't invented it then. At the same time, today you can go and get that information. We are putting that information in the hands of patients, which then they are going and sharing with their physicians. And this is powerful information for the individual to have. 
   The New York Times in October of 2006 published a piece by Tyler Cohen  when he talked about the ability to innovate and how it has made American medicine really the envy of the world. Seventeen of the last 25 Nobel Prizes have gone to American scientists working in American labs, and four of the six most important breakthroughs in the last 25 years have occurred because of the research of American scientists, things like the CAT scan, coronary artery bypass, statins for reduction of cholesterol. In fact, the National Institutes of Health will tell you statistics that 800,000 premature deaths from heart disease have been prevented in the last 25 years because of innovation that has in part been developed by the National Institutes of Health and then part developed by the private sector in this country. 
   So it is truly a good news story, and the reality is America is not done. We are not done with the advancements in medicine. The next generation of breakthroughs, I already alluded to what is happening with the human genome. Look at the speed with which information is now processed and transferred and disseminated. Who would have ever thought that we would be in this phase of rapid learning in which we find ourselves currently. This is truly likely to be the golden age of medical discovery. And the breakthroughs that occur have been a result of the environment that has fostered and encouraged competition and choice. 
   It doesn't mean we can't make a good thing better. It doesn't mean that everything about our system is perfect. But certainly, when we look at ways in which we might change the system, for heaven's sake, let's not do things that will harm the innovation that our system has brought us. American ingenuity prospers when we strive to be transformational. The reason we can be transformational is because of the degree of freedom we have. Remember, freedom is transformational. 
   So when we are advancing toward a goal and we are not focused on the transaction like we do with our Medicare reimbursement; when we are focused on the goal of being transformational, that is when good things can happen. But the present debate in Washington is focused on dollars and cents, and we are not focused on the transformational. We are not even looking at ways where we can fundamentally enhance the interaction that occurs between the doctor and the patient in the treatment room. We are simply looking at ways of moving dollars around on a balance sheet, and we do that and we think we have done a good job. And, again, I reference what has happened with the Medicare physician reimbursement rates that are going to go down so much in just a few weeks. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am one of the few policymakers on Capitol Hill that has also spent a lifetime in health care. For 25 years before I came to Congress, I had my own practice. I have sat in exam rooms with patients, I have looked them in the eye, I have taken a prescription for them and counseled them as to risks and benefits and costs and written a prescription. I figured out how to build my business, how to expand my business. I figured out how to build my business in lean economic times back in the 1980s in Texas. I figured out how to expand my business in good economic times in the 1990s in Texas. I figured out ways to pay my employees and keep the lights on. But, again, if we don't have a commonsense approach to these health care issues, our solutions are going to be far short of the mark. 
   This experience gives me the practical knowledge to play some role in the development of this policy.     
   I think this comes in handy because, as we change health care in this country, we want to be certain that we do it in a way that allows health care to still be delivered in this country. 
   And there's widespread recognition that things need to change. There's different ideas as to how to accomplish it. The good news is that, regardless of what happens tonight, there is going to be a fundamental referendum on health care in this country come November, because whoever prevails on the Democratic side, of course Senator McCain on the Republican side, the views are distinct from each other, and it is going to give the American people a clear choice about the direction to go in health care. One is focused on more government control, and one is focused on more patient control. I'll give you a guess as to which side that I would come down on. 
   And again, policymakers are focused on change, and the people who care for patients, the people who are involved in their practices, they need to be involved in this discussion as well because, in truth, health care begins and ends partly with patients, but truly with the people who are involved in the delivery of that health care, and specifically I reference physicians and nurses, hospital administrators and other health care personnel will figure into that equation. But those are the individuals who have to be involved in this grand national debate we're going to have about health care transformation in this country over the next 5 months. 
   And many of my friends who are health care professionals don't realize the critical role that they must play in shaping the health care debate. They must be active, they must be engaged, or otherwise you're going to be forced to sit on the sidelines and play by the rules that other people are going to make for you. 
   And again, I reference the earlier part of my discussion. You see, the rules that we'll come up with here in Washington, DC , those rules are, let's take 10.7 percent away from our doctors this month, and in 6 months let's take another 5 percent away from them, and then we'll figure something out in the meantime. 
   Well, I will just tell my friends who are involved with the delivery of health care, whether it's in Washington, whether it's at home in Texas, you need to be involved. You've got to act before all you can do is react. And if health care professionals don't lead, then we'll have to accept what the health care prescription is that is given to us by the people who sit in this body, the people who sit on the other side of the Capitol, whoever sits in the White House. 
   It doesn't make sense to have a body that is what, two-thirds lawyers, making all of the decisions about how the doctors are going to practice in this country. 
   One of the possible prescriptions that's out there, one of the things that I find very problematic is expanding the government role for health care. 
   Mr. Speaker, if I were to pose a hypothetical question, what is the largest single payer government health care system in the world? Well, you know what? It's right here in the United States of America. Our Medicare and Medicaid and all of the other systems that are involved and administered by the Department of Health and Human Services accounts for pretty much 50 cents out of every health care dollar that is spent in this country. That means 50 cents out of every health care dollar that's spent in this country originates right here on the floor of the House of Representatives. And I would just ask you, are we doing such a great job? 
   I reference my earlier remarks about what's happening to the Medicare system if we don't do something within the next 4 weeks. Are we doing a great job with what we control currently? 
   Now, the government can play a role by encouraging coverage and maybe help incentivizing and encouraging the creation of programs that people actually want. Rather than forcing them into a government-prescribed program, what if we build something that actually brings value to people's lives and offer that as an alternative as we try to expand access to health care and health care coverage in this country. 
   And the good news is we actually have a model within the very recent past that has worked, and worked very well, and that is the Medicare Part D program which began in this Congress my first year here in 2003, and rolled out on January 1, 2006. And as a consequence, now, 90 percent of the seniors in this country have some type of coverage for their prescriptions. Contrast that to when I took office and that number was somewhat below 60 percent. So that has been a good thing. It has moved in a positive direction. 
   Well, what do people think about this program that has now been in effect for a couple of years? Well, current polling shows about a 90 percent satisfaction rate with Medicare Part D. So that's a  good news story. We've got 90 percent of the people covered. We've got 90 percent positive ratings with various polls. 
   Well, what about the cost? We heard a lot about the cost on the floor of this House as we debated that bill and in the aftermath after that bill was passed, but the reality is when we passed that bill in the House, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services projected the cost per enrollee per month to be about $37.50. The reality is, the cost currently is about $24.50, and it has been stable over the time that this program has been in effect. 
   So here's a Federal program that, yeah, it has been a joint public/private partnership, but 90 percent coverage, 90 percent acceptance rate, and came in at a cost two-thirds of what was originally projected. I would say, from the limited time I've had here in Washington, that's the definition of a success story with a Federal program. 
   So 29 people are enrolled as of 2007, and the average cost is less than $24 a month. The first Federal program to rein runaway medical spending by restoring savings incentives and leveraging the power of that public private competition. 
   So overall, some of the best things that government can do is, when they recognize that there's a problem in say the delivery of health care or even in arenas such as health care information technology, we can kind of set the stage and tell people what our expectations are, and then get out of the way. Don't put a lot of regulation. Don't put new causes for liability out there. Get out of the way, and let the private sector do what they do best, what they do every day of the week. If we can do that by creating the right environment to let the private sector deliver the kind of innovation, the kind of cost savings and the type of quality that realistically has been delivered to other industries over and over and over again, if we can do that then maybe we have done something worthwhile. 
   You know, these are the same market forces that took us from a single black rotary telephone to these fancy electronic devices that all of us carry with us 24 hours a day now. We cannot imagine being without our iPods and iPhones and BlackBerrys. But it wasn't too many years ago, in fact, the year I started in private practice where it was a single line black rotary telephone, and we thought it was the height of high technology when we got those little push buttons on our phone. 
   Look at the change that's happened in aviation in literally what has been now the first century of 
   aviation, going from the type of plane that the Wright brothers flew to the Boeing 787 dream liner that is coming on-line now. We have seen fantastic change. 
   I already mentioned the inventor of the Internet, and in the short period of time, we've come to the age that's brought us things like iTunes and YouTube, things that most of us now would find indispensable. If someone said we're going to take this away from you, we'd say that's not a good idea. We'd rather the government wouldn't do that. 
   But here's the secret. Here's the deal. The free market is delivering this same kind of value every day, day in, day out. Innovation and efficiency are hallmarks of what they're able to do. So why not? Why not allow them to participate in this grand plan that we call transformation of the Nation's health care system? 
   I've experienced it, and I'm excited about experiencing more of it and learning more about it, both as a legislator and as a professional in medicine. 
   But I just have to tell you, this past fall, Health Affairs did a symposium in downtown Washington, and I went to that symposium. I largely went because Dr. Mark McClellan was going to talk about his experiences with the Medicare program, Medicare Part D Program. Dr. Elias Zerhouni was going to talk about his experience with the National Institute of Health. But I had really no intention of sitting and listening to Ron Williams talk about--the new CEO of Aetna talk about what was happening within Aetna because I thought, well, Aetna's one of those private insurers who really, as a provider, we've oftentimes been at odds. But I listened to Dr. Zerhouni and I listened to Dr. McClellan. But it was Ron Williams who really talked about the biggest changes that are coming in medicine, particularly in the arena of health information technology, and the things that he was talking about were truly transformative. 
   So my question to him later was to ask why is--what would you require, what is the environment that you require to be able to do these great things that you're talking about? And he outlined perhaps a program where there would be some certainty as to what the privacy regulations are. 
   We all talk about privacy in this body. We're going to have a hearing about it tomorrow. But does anybody really understand what we mean when we say we want some privacy provisions? What about the STAR clause that prevents a hospital from putting a computer line in a doctor's office? Is that really a good idea as we go forward with wanting to develop more and better situations where we can have advancement in health information technology? Is that truly such a good idea? 
   Maybe we would do better if we relaxed some of the regulations, if we provided some certainty in the areas of liability, provided some certainty in the area in the definition of things like privacy, maybe that would be a better way to go about it. 
   During that discussion with the CEO of a large insurance company, he talked about things, about the different algorithms they've developed purely from using financial data, no clinical data involved, but the types of anticipation that they could now have about very expensive diseases that they might have to pay for and the clues they could get very early on in the process of this, and how they might be able to moderate or modify activities so that they didn't have to pay for that very expensive care at the end stage of the disease, they could actually work on that at an earlier stage and not only prevent the large expenditure for the more expensive disease, but also improve the quality of life because, after all, we're increasing the amount of time that a person has in a state of relative good health. 
   Another company that I talked to recently talked about a new test they're going to have for a disease called preeclampsia, pregnancy-induced hypertension. When I was in practice, and even just a few years ago, if you saw a patient where you were worried that this might be happening, about the only option you have was to put the patient in the hospital and observe them over time and see whether this was a real phenomenon or just a one-time event. But the price you paid for being wrong was severe, and certainly could result in severe injury to the patient and/or her baby. So we always erred on the side of caution with that. 
   But now there may be a new blood test that will elucidate very quickly whether someone is truly at risk for this problem, or if perhaps this one indication of elevated blood pressure was just an outlier, and, in fact, they aren't truly at risk for this problem. This would be a tremendous tool to put in the hands of clinicians. And look at the savings, not just in eliminating some of the unnecessary hospitalizations, but making certain that the people who really need the intensive care get that intensive care and get the intensive observation and scrutiny that their particular situation demands. 
   And a recent study out of Dartmouth outlined how hospitals can deliver better care and do a better job at a lower cost by embracing some measures of efficiency. This study demonstrated that Medicare could save as much as $10 billion a year if all United States hospitals followed the example of the most efficient hospitals. These facilities didn't cut costs at the expense of patient care, but focused on better coordination of care and better avenues of communication between doctors and specialists and better avenues of communications between hospitals. 
   Now, again, earlier in the month of April I was fortunate to co-host a panel with former Speaker Newt Gingrich which focused on some of the real world examples of success in health care transformation. And Mr. Speaker, I'll just tell you, it's no secret to people in this body that former Speaker Gingrich is a real leader when it comes to leading the charge for change in the arena of health care. He's involved in a great many other things, but certainly, in the arena of change in health care, former Speaker Gingrich has really  pushed this to the forefront, and has really--I am so grateful for his involvement in that, and his bringing new ideas and new people to the table on a constant basis that help us, are going to help us evolve into this system that we all would like to think that we can help deliver to our country. 
   Now, he brought in several companies that demonstrated how free market choice and competition can lead to more options at a lower cost, when it comes to health care. And let me just share a little bit about what we learned that day. Since there weren't many Members who were able to attend, let's talk a little bit about some of the companies that are relying on innovation to save lives and save money and to actually save time in the process. 
   Overall, there was agreement that we can get better results with what--we don't have to pay more money. With the money that we're paying right now, we can get better results by actually engaging patients in their own care. And you know, this goes back to what Dr. Zerhouni has talked about at the National Institute of Health. 
   Because of what we've learned about the human genome, medical care is going to be personalized to a level that no one ever thought about before. You're going to be able to know, no longer will it be a course, a question of, well, we're going to try this particular medication because we'll see how it works. If it doesn't work, we've got an alternate.     
   You will actually know that beforehand because of knowing about a person's genetic makeup. So medicine will become a great deal more personalized. 
   Because of that, it's going to be also, it's going to be, of necessity, focused on prevention. We know what diseases you're at risk for so we're going to recognize that and focus on the preventive aspects of that. And as a consequence, it has to become more participatory. That is, the patient can no longer simply be a passive recipient of health care services and the expense of health care doctors. The patients themselves need to be involved in the maintenance of their health and the decisions surrounding the delivery of health care. 
   Now, in industry circles, this is what is known as consumer-directed health care, consumer-driven health care. The goal of consumer-directed health care is to kind of eliminate the middleman, in our case the government, or it could be the insurer in the private sector who tries to find their way in as a wedge. 
   Remember I talked about that fundamental interaction between the doctor and patient in the treatment room? What of the barriers to enhancing that relationship? Well, it can be the government, it could even be a private insurance company. If we can somehow remove the middleman, number one, the patient will not be so insensitive, so anesthetized as to the cost of their care; and they will be more in tune to the benefits that can accrue to them should they work harder on participating in their own health care. 
   If people are anesthetized, Mr. Speaker, they're anesthetized to the true cost of health care. All they want to know is when and if they can see their doctor and what their co-pay will be and if you order expensive tests, like a CAT scan or an MRI, the only question is is it covered; not is it necessary, is it truly something I need, how is this truly going to benefit my care in the future. It's, well, will insurance pay for it, and if it does, do I have to pay a co-pay. 
   Now, I know from personal experience, and certainly my staff has told me this as well, you know, you receive one of those forms. It's called an EOB, explanation of benefits. You receive one of those from the insurance companies. Most people toss it. It's so confusing. It really has no bearing on reality anyway. It doesn't have anything to do with the ultimate cost or the ultimate bill that was paid either by the insurance company or the individual so most people just simply pay no attention to that; and yet this is the one piece of paper that actually tells the patient what it costs to deliver the care that they have just received. 
   So that means they're consuming health care services but they're not conscious of the costs. So there's little incentive on their part to modify their behavior to do things better next time, to be active participants in their own health care. 
   So consumer-directed health care says if people aren't anesthetized, if people are fully awake and fully conscious, they're more likely to make sound and wise decisions about their lifestyle and about maintaining their own health. 
   Now, there was a McKenzie study that found that consumer-directed health care patients were twice as likely as patients in traditional plans to ask about costs and three times as likely to choose a less expensive treatment option, and chronic patients were 20 percent more likely to follow their outlined regimen very carefully. 
   Now critics argue that consumer-directed health care will cause consumers, particularly those who might be less wealthy or less well-educated, to avoid appropriate and needed health care because of the cost burden and the inability, the inability to make informed and appropriate choices. 
   Now, one of the companies that was at the panel we did in April had data that actually contradicted that criticism. The Midwestern Health Care Company introduced a consumer-directed health plan to its 8,600 employees. They also left their traditional PPO, their regular insurance, in place. In the first year, 79 percent of employees chose one of four consumer-directed health plans. These health plans had several important features, but two of those were preventive care was free and employees received financial incentive to change behaviors like smoking and weight control. 
   In addition, they also received some incentive to manage chronic conditions like asthma and diabetes, that is, see their physicians at the prescribed time, take the prescribed medicines according to the directions and do the appropriate follow-ups. 
   So this has been in place for a couple of years. Do we have any statistics, are there any metrics that would indicate an overall direction of improvement? And in fact, 7 percent of health care dollars were spent on prevention compared to a national average of a little less than 2 1/2 . So that's a significant increase. And nearly 40 percent of the employees now take an annual personal health risk assessment and earn $100. 
   Nearly 500 employees have quit smoking, and as a group, that 8,600 employees have lost 13,000 pounds through weight-management programs. 
   From a cost standpoint has there been a difference? And the answer is yes. The average claim increase of 5.1 percent in the past 2 years compared with those who are in traditional PPO-type insurance where the claims increased 8 percent. So a 3 percent reduction for an increase in claims activity for people who were taking a more active role in the involvement of their own health care. 
   This company has a lot of impressive data. Policymakers can, in fact, learn from the example that was brought to us that day. And we can learn from some of the other companies as well. 
   One of the largest for-profit health insurance companies featured on the panel described their incentive-based health benefit design. Now, they have a plan that is a high-deductible plan. It's a $5,000 deductible for a family. I don't think anyone would argue that that's a fairly high deductible for a family to have to face if they have an illness. But the good news is that family, with that $5,000 deductible, and of course they get a break on their premium with such a high-deductible plan, their premium costs less than some of the other plans. So they do save money on the premium. 
   But also if they're willing to participate in some things like weight control, smoking cessation, cholesterol screening, exercise management, if they're willing to participate in those, they can reduce that $5,000 deductible in $1,000 increments down to a $1,000 deductible with no increase in their premium. So they still have the very low premium associated with a $5,000 deductible plan, but now they've reduced their deductible to $1,000 for that family, which is a much more manageable figure. 
   And how did that they do that? Because they voluntarily enrolled in a smoking cessation plan, they voluntarily enrolled in a plan to measure cholesterol, and because they voluntarily enrolled in a plan to actively manage their weight and increase their  exercise. So positive things that the individuals can do themselves that result in an actual benefit as far as the insurance expenditure is concerned. 
   Now, there were also some very positive results from 
   some of the other consumer-directed health care options. 88 percent of health savings account holders carried a balance from 2006 into 2007. That means they didn't spend all of their money that was set aside for health care expenditures, and they were actually able to carry that forward into the next year. And you can imagine doing that year over year over year along with the miracle of compound interest, as long as you start young, that can be a powerful way to put some savings in place for payment for health care later on. 
   I actually say this from personal experience. I was one of the first people to get a medical savings account. This Congress, under the leadership of former chairman Bill Archer of the Ways and Means Committee, passed a medical savings account bill in 1996. In 1997, I signed up for one. I had it until I came to Congress at the beginning of 2003, and that money now sits there and grows year in and year out and is a substantial amount of money that is now available for treating health-related conditions well into the future. That is a powerful tool to put in the hands of someone. And the actuality is the earlier you start, the more powerful is that concept. 
   So 88 percent of health savings account holders had a carryover balance from 2006 to 2007. And the average balance among people who were judged to be of low income was almost $600, $597 on average. So that's not insignificant. 
   Now, how many Americans are encouraged to live healthier lives and to conserve their health benefits like these individuals that we've just described? People that are making personal decisions about prevention and lifestyle and managing chronic conditions and cost. Most people with other private health insurance are not because there is no reason for them to. They just simply pay their insurance premium every month. They hope that they don't have to use it. They hope that their health is not threatened and they have to rely on this insurance company, and if they do, they hope that they will in fact be covered when that illness strikes. 
   In fact, Mr. Speaker, within my own family, I have a youngster who teaches school. He teaches middle school there in Denton, Texas. Once I said, You know, you have gotten to an age where you need to think about preventative health care. You need to think about going to see the doctor once a year for a physical and having some lab work done and having a few things checked. He said, I don't need to do that. I thought he was going to tell me because he was young and indestructible. He said, I don't have to do that because they came to our school and did a bunch of blood tests and told me I was fine. 
   I said, What do you mean they came to your school and did a bunch of blood tests? He said, Yeah. If we went out and had the nurse draw our blood, they would actually give us $20 a month off of our health insurance premium, and I did the math. That's $240 a year. I'll take that in exchange for having a little blood work done. 
   How forward-thinking for this independent school district to provide that type of service. That way if someone in fact does have an elevated cholesterol but it's entirely silent and they have no idea that they have it, that person can be identified and have some treatment started that will prevent the problem down the road. And in fact if there are no problems, then the school district also benefits because they know they have a very healthy workforce, and they are very fortunate to have a very healthy workforce working for them. 
   But the closet diabetic, the person with high cholesterol that is otherwise not known, the person with other medical conditions that is otherwise not known, the person with even illnesses that would lead to electrolyte imbalances may be discovered by those types of screening tests. 
   So this, all in all, is a good thing and a way for, yes, the independent school district to save money on some of those higher dollars, just like the CEO at Aetna described, being able to save money on those higher-dollar diagnoses by paying a little bit of money on the front end to, in this case, to elucidate those conditions, and then if they are found, to encourage that person to perhaps seek some treatment for that. 
   So there is, of course, a quote that we're all familiar with about the fundamentals of learning being reading, writing, and arithmetic. Perhaps for Congress our fundamentals for health care should be risk, responsibilities, and rewards. And if we will focus on those--after all, on both sides of the aisle, who can be opposed to more care, lower cost, better quality? I mean, how can you be opposed to those three things? That's what we all talk about in all of these lofty terms about what we're all for. 
   Well, let's be for that. Let's be for that and ensure that we put the tools in the hands of the American people so that they can actually participate themselves in the blessings that the American health care system is likely be able to provide for them in the years to come. 
   So, that's the right prescription for health professionals, and it's the right prescription for them to push for when it comes to real system reform, and it's the right prescription for Members of Congress to subscribe to as well. 
   So let me just finish by once again stressing the importance that we've got some immediate work in health care ahead of us. Forget all of the stuff that's going to happen in the presidential election. If we don't fix this problem with the Medicare physician reimbursement rate, if we don't fix or stop those cuts that are going to go into place in just a few weeks time, then a lot of this discussion will be for nought because we will have driven doctors out of practices and we will ensure that patients don't have access to care of any type. Whether it is expensive care, whether it is quality care, it doesn't matter. We will just have ensured that our Medicare patients don't have access to that care. 
   So I do urge my colleagues to please pay attention to this. Look into whatever bill you want. I urge to you look into H.R. 6129, which is a paid-for short-term solution to the cliff about which we're fixing to go over the edge. And I do want to encourage my colleagues to focus on this because this is extremely important. This is important to the doctors and patients back in your district. 
   Nothing is more personal to a person than their medical care and their relationship with their physician, and this hits right at the heart of that relationship if we allow these cuts to go into place and oh, yeah, by the way, there's another 5 percent reduction where that came from waiting for you at the end of the year.     
   Make no mistake about it, Mr. Speaker, this is a presidential election year. All eyes tonight are going to be on what is billed as the last presidential primary, and then we'll start the fall campaign literally tomorrow morning. 
   Make no mistake, it's going to be difficult for things to rise to the top of the national discussion, which is why I encourage my colleagues to take the time and trouble now to look at this legislation, look at H.R. 6129, do the right thing and get behind this bill, if you can, and let's deliver to the Speaker of the House of Representatives a significant number of cosponsors, 200 or 300 cosponsors, so that we will actually get this legislation done in what remains of the days between now and the 4th of July break. And perhaps we can also, too, get some attention over in the other body on the other side of the Capitol so they will take this up as well. 
   There's probably no more important thing, perhaps with the exception of passing the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, but there's probably no more important or intense piece of legislation that we can take up these next 4 weeks. This is an immediate concern. This is a clear and present danger to the physicians who practice in this country and the patients who depend on those physicians for their health care, the access for those patients to their physicians. This is the number one issue of this Congress this month, and we should not shirk our responsibility. 
   Please, let's don't do what they did in December and just simply walk away from this responsibility. Let's  take charge of this. We have it within our power to affect this. 
   Again, this is a paid-for provision. This is not going to expand the deficit. It doesn't create a tax increase. It doesn't take money away from anyone else. This is the right thing to do. And this Congress, this Congress ought to stand up and do the right thing when it comes to the patients and the physicians of this country. 
   On the larger issue of the health care referendum that we're going to be facing in this country, I urge my colleagues to listen very carefully to the arguments that are going to come from both political parties as we go into the fall presidential election. Please remember that that which grows the government side of health care may not be in the best interests of patients in the long term. And those programs that tend to encourage the involvement of the private sector and tend to encourage the participation of the patient in the maintenance of their own health care, those are programs that are likely to deliver value and allow us to continue what has been the greatest health care system the world has ever known. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (DELIVERY OF HEALTH CARE IN THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I want to come to the floor tonight and continue on a theme that we were discussing last night, and that theme revolves around delivery of health care in this country. 
   Some of the discussion last night dealt with the future of medical care in this country, whether we expand the public sector involvement, whether we encourage and continue the private sector involvement in the delivery of health care in this country; and those are extremely important questions, and questions that I suspect that this Congress will be debating at length over the coming 18 months and well into the next Congress, the 111th Congress that convenes in 2009. 
   If we don't pay attention to the physician workforce that is going to be providing that health care, those discussions may be all for naught. We are obligated, in this Congress, to pay attention to access for our patients, patients in Medicare. You heard reference to the SCHIP program; patients in the SCHIP program are all going to need access to physicians. It doesn't matter whether a patient is a participant in the Medicare system, the SCHIP system, private insurance, pays cash for their care, they need access to a doctor, and that access will be unavailable if we don't preserve and protect our physician workforce going forward. 
   This really came home to me about a year and a half ago in a conversation with Alan Greenspan. He commented on the concern for the future viability and stability of the Medicare program, of the system as a whole, is it ultimately sustainable. He felt that it would be. But his greater concern was is there going to be anyone there to deliver the services when you require them? Of course, he is talking about our physician workforce, our nursing workforce, the ancillary health care personnel, all of whom we depend upon to deliver health care in this country. 
   We have an overburgeoning and overregulated governmental system that continues to sort of move along. We have got the other aspect of ever-increasing liability costs. If we have time tonight, I do want to touch on that just a little bit. 
   But not just the cost of medical liability insurance, but also the aggravation of dealing with a system that, on its face, sets doctors and patients against each other. We do have to deal with that. 
   The consequence of this is we have physicians who are my age who are leaving the profession early, earlier than the generation before them. It was very common for a physician to practice into their 60s and 70s and not at all uncommon to continue to read about physicians who continue to practice right up until the time that they no longer could. 
   You don't see that as much any more. Physicians are making plans to leave the practice of medicine at an earlier point now than, I believe, ever before in our Nation's history. At the same time, at the other end, are we having any problems filling our residency programs? The answer is yes. 
   Are we, in fact, encouraging the young people of this country to look upon health care as a career, as a profession? The answer to that question may not be affirmative either. 
   So we have got an increasing number of physicians who are making early retirement plans. We are not sure it's difficult to measure the number, but it doesn't seem that the younger generation is showing up in the numbers that we would expect. Both of those pose a significant concern nationally, because we have got a society that's aging. We have a society with the so-called baby boom generation coming up, and the demand for services is going to be ever-increasing during that time. 
   Suffice it to say, whether it's, again, the Medicare, SCHIP program, Medicaid, private insurance, cash on the barrel head, patients are going to need doctors; and it is incumbent upon this Congress to make certain that we do the things necessary to preserve the physician workforce in this country. The patients who need care, maybe a patient is in a city, or they may be a patient in a rural area, they may be a patient in an area that has been devastated by gulf coast hurricanes in the past couple of years. The reasons are complex, and we debate them at some length up here in Washington in the various ways that we can seek to improve our health care system. 
   But even as we engage in these issue, our physician workforce is crumbling. In order to keep this scenario from becoming worse, I am proposing a series of physician workforce pieces of legislation that will consist, essentially, of three different parts. 
   I would just draw your attention to the cover of Texas Medicine. This is a periodical put out by the Texas Medical Association every month. This is the cover of the March issue. The title is, ``Running Out of Doctors: Medical Schools Unable to Keep Residents in Texas.'' This is one of the things that we really do have to focus on. 
   When you look at the Medicare system, one of the biggest problems we have is the formula under which physicians are paid, and addressing the declining Medicare physician payment issue has almost become an annual rite here in Washington, DC. But every time we do that, we actually make it harder to ultimately reform the system. Every time we come in at the end game, at the end of the year, to try to prevent further cuts to the physician reimbursement system and the Medicare system, we actually make the overall solution to that problem harder and harder. The chance, then, for real reform, the opportunities for real reform, become smaller and smaller with each succeeding year. 
   The current payment system in the Medicare system, the current payment system rewards ordering labs and performing procedures, necessary or not. In fact, not often are the questions asked, if those services, not even if they are necessary, but are they, perhaps, overvalued. Is Medicare getting its best value for its dollar? 
   The current system is indifferent to the fact that the procedures or the tests ordered may be questionable or may have significant merit, may, in fact, be critical for a patient's well-being. The fact is that the system doesn't work. It doesn't work for doctors, it doesn't work for patients, and certainly not working for the American taxpayer. Yet, year in and year out, Congress allows it to persist. 
   Well, if we continue to allow this condition to stagnate, there will be fewer and fewer physicians accepting Medicare payments. This will result in reduced access for beneficiaries and a restriction in the physician workforce pipeline over a period when the demand for medical service is projected to explode. 
   Fewer students are pursuing a career in medicine. More and more doctors are retiring early. Even fewer will choose primary care fields in their study of medicine, and all of this happens against a backdrop of more and more Americans growing older. As Americans grow older, they do face greater and greater health challenges. So, arguably, our sickest and most complex patients are going to need to rely on an ever-dwindling physician workforce. 
   Now, if, indeed, we do nothing, the picture I have just painted may, indeed, become a reality.     
   But again, the three pieces of legislation that I plan to introduce will start with one that will ensure stability of the physician work force by ensuring stability of the payment system within Medicare. There is a formula under which physicians are paid in Medicare, and I'm going to talk about this in a little bit more detail in just a few minutes, but it's called the sustainable growth rate. And the net effect of the sustainable growth rate formula is really anything but growth. It, in fact, results in a reduction over time, 5 to 10 percent reduction in physician payments year in and year out. And that number is brought to us every year by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services out of the Department of Health and Human Services. We'll actually receive data on that, what that number of that percentage cut will be this summer, sometime in July. 
   The first bill that I'm proposing would, in fact, eliminate that sustainable growth rate formula and replace it with a different formula. It's called the Medicare Economic Index, really not so important what it's called, but it is a cost of living update, if you will, a market basket update based upon the cost of input. What does it cost the doctor to run their office, to run their practice? And if they're going to be  able to sustain that over time, obviously, the Medicare reimbursement rates are going to have to keep up with the cost of living adjustment, or keep up with inflation. It only makes sense. We do it in almost every other aspect of Medicare. And again, I want to discuss that in some detail in just a moment. 
   One of the other things that happened in 2003 was we reset the SGR baseline to reduce the level of those cuts, and, in fact, that's a budgetary maneuver that may well be available to us again this year and, in fact, is one that I think we should take advantage of. 
   So this legislation does, in addition to repealing the SGR, it does so in the year 2010. In the 2 years prior to that time, reset the baseline so that the depth of those cuts are not so significant. In order to protect physician practices against a reduction in income and, hence, encouraging physicians to leave the Medicare system, in order to protect during that 2 years time, allow bonus payment of 3 percent for voluntary reporting on quality measures and 3 percent for those practices that choose to increase or improve their health information technology that almost every practice will be relying on with greater and greater need in the years to come. 
   So in aggregate, those bonus payments are 6 percent. And by resetting the baseline, the reduction in payment will be in the 5 percent range. So the net effect will be either a 0 percent update or possibly even a 1 percent update, which I think would be welcomed by most physicians in practice. And that's a temporary situation. 
   What is the reason to delay the SGR repeal? Why not just do it straight up? The reason is because of the projected cost by the Congressional Budget Office, and that projected cost makes it almost impossible to do that without making some significant adjustments in other aspects of payments for medical care that, quite frankly, I don't know that Congress has the will to do. 
   But the reality is, we are saving money year over year in Medicare by providing services in a more timely fashion. The Medicare prescription drug benefit passed in 2003, a case in point. The trustees, the Medicare trustees report released just a few weeks ago said that in 2005 there were 600,000 hospital beds that weren't filled in Medicare. This was a savings to part A in Medicare, which really should accrue to part B and go to offset the cost of repealing the SGR formula. 
   We are not allowed, under the rules of the Congressional Budget Office, we are not allowed to look ahead and say well, we are going to get savings in this system because of changes that we've made. But what we can do is sequester and aggregate those savings over the next 2 years, and then use those actual dollars to buy down or reduce the amount of dollars that it's going to cost to repeal the SGR. 
   Again, a small bonus update for beginning in the year 2008 for some health information technology implementation. These measures are in a large part well overdue. And this Congress, the last Congress was unable to come to an agreement, the House and the Senate, over the type of health information technology that we wanted doctors offices to pursue. 
   But the reality is, delaying that implementation further only tends to cost more money to the system. So we do need to get on about the business of encouraging physicians' offices to do this work. Not only is it necessary, I think, to provide that bonus payment, but it's also necessary to provide some safe harbor provisions in laws that are known as the Stark clause, the anti-kickback, and anti-compete laws that we know in aggregate as Stark 1 and Stark 2. 
   Additionally, if physicians voluntarily report quality data, that additional bonus payment will be there for them as well. So collect an aggregate. All of that data within the Center for Medicare and Medicaid services, money to save from part A, part C and part D as well. Aggregate, sequester those savings and use that to offset the cost of the ultimate repeal of the SGR. 
   And in addition to that, there is the Inspector General in Health and Human Services, along with the Department of Justice, have gotten very aggressive about going after areas where health care monies are spent inappropriately, the so-called fraud and abuse that exists within some aspects of the Medicare system. 
   And a recent newspaper article disclosed a significant amount of money that was recovered by eliminating an episode of fraud and abuse that was occurring I believe in the State of Florida. 
   Well, those monies need to be, again, reallocated back to the part B part of Medicare again to pay down or buy down the cost of that SGR appeal when the time comes. 
   Now, one of the issues that was addressed in the Texas Medical Association article is that because of the lack of residency programs within the State of Texas, Texas is doing a good job with, they've expanded medical schools and they're doing a good job with medical instruction, but the doctors that they're educating in Texas are having to leave Texas to get their specialty training or their residency training. And the fact is that most physicians practice within 100 miles of where they did their residency training. So to be able to increase the amount of residency programs that are available in rural areas, in midsize or small urban areas, it is going to take some effort by this Congress for that to happen. 
   The United States does have good residency programs. They're the envy of the world, and people come from all over the world to participate in our postgraduate education in our academic medical centers. But that's just the point. A lot of residencies do exist in conjunction with large academic medical centers and, as of a consequence, that's in a large urban area. 
   Again, doctors are more likely to practice close to where they train and in similar environments. So most American trained doctors, as you would imagine, stay in urban areas and practice specialty or subspecialty medicine, which is not a bad thing. And that's not to say that that is necessarily wrong, but we do need more physicians who are going to set up their practices in primary care in more of the generalist theme rather than the specialty theme. 
   The second bill that would be introduced would be the Physician Work Force and Graduate Education Enhancement Act. And it establishes an interest free loan program for eligible hospitals in rural, small and urban areas to attract residency programs in specialties like family medicine, internal medicine, pediatrics, emergency medicine, OB/GYN or general surgery. This would require an authorization of $25 million over 10 years from 2008 to 2018. And of course the Secretary of HHS would report back to Congress on how the program is doing with achieving its stated goals. 
   Well, let me talk for just a moment about the Medicare payment formula, because this is an important point, and it is difficult to understand. It's a program that obviously was created by Congress and Federal agencies and one that is understandable by perhaps very few. 
   But looking at this graph, the colored bars on this graph represent the years, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, I'm sorry, 2007, 2006 does not appear on this graph because it was actually a 0 percent, 2006 is the blue bar on the graph. 
   If you look at the four parts of Medicare, the hospitals representing Medicare part A, doctors, Medicare part B, Medicare Advantage, part C, including nursing homes on this graph as well, and you look at the Medicare Advantage plans, the hospitals and the nursing homes, and each of those year over year receive a market basket or a cost of living upgrade year over year. You can see for hospitals, for example, it's ranged about 3 percent a year, sometimes a little bit lower, sometimes a little bit higher. The Medicare Advantage plans have done a little bit better. Nursing homes very similar to hospitals. 
   But look over at the physician reimbursement. In the year 2002 there was about a 4 1/2 percent reduction in physician reimbursement. Then, in 2003, 2004, 2005, very, very modest, 1.8, 1.7 percent cost of living updates. Lower, I would point out, than hospitals, nursing homes or certainly the Medicare Advantage plans. 
   In 2005, this was actually part of the Deficit Reduction Act that was passed in 2005 and held physicians at a 0 percent update. 
   Projection for 2007 was for a significant reduction, but the reality was,  again, we made an adjustment at the end of last year to once again hold that at a 0 percent update. 
   But you would have to ask yourself, how long, at running a small business, could you continue without any attention being paid to what does it cost to run the business? At some point, if this line stays flat or continues to diminish, at some point you don't have to have an MBA from an elite Eastern institution to figure out that you cannot continue to sustain that. Again, physician offices, in the main, are small businesses and as a consequence, a continued reduction in payment or even a flattening of payment which when everyone else is seeing a cost of living adjustment of between 2 and 4 percent, that's indicative of the inflation rate for medical offices. And they in fact are on a significant downward trajectory, one that ultimately is not likely to be sustainable. 
   Now, last year, in an attempt to deal with this, I introduced legislation that was a little bit different from the bill that I've introduced this year. It was H.R. 5866, and it was aimed at tackling this problem with the sustainable growth rate formula and replacing it with a cost of living update, a cost of living adjustment update. The primary focus was to ensure that seniors have better access to the health care that they need, that, acknowledging that the SGR reductions of 5 percent every year, year over year, makes it less likely for doctors to continue to see Medicare patients. 
   The plan then had four main goals. Ensure that physicians receive a full and fair payment for services rendered; secondly, to create quality performance measures to keep consumers informed. Are you, in fact, getting value for your dollar when you purchase medical care. We have well established, in fact, they've been around for 20 years or so, institutions in each State called quality improvement organizations. 
   Well, I wanted to, in fact, embellish or augment the quality improvement organizations and increase their accountability and flexibility so that they would be able to provide the feedback to physicians and to patients as to how they are doing; are they able to provide the services for a reasonable amount of money? Are they able to provide the services in a timely fashion? Do they provide the services that people in fact want? 
   Well, the problem with 5866 is that once again there was a significant number of dollars that would need to be identified to offset the cost of going from the sustainable growth rate formula to the cost of living update formula. That figure last year was about $218 billion. And that is a significant amount of money to come up with over 1 year's time. Hence, the reason that this year the trajectory that I have introduced has lengthened that timeline out a little bit longer in order to identify where some of those pay fors may be found. 
   The other option, following along the lines of 5866 from last year, would just simply be to take the money from other aspects of Medicare and other parts of the Federal payment for health care in this country. The problem is that each of those areas finds great difficulty if indeed a proposal is made to restrict or reduce the Federal expenditures that come their way and, as a consequence, 5866 never enjoyed very widespread support because of the fact that, like so many things here in Washington, DC, you end up having to pick winners and losers.     
   That is the reason that I have taken the approach that I have for this year to expand out the timeline for the elimination of the SGR, to identify pay-fors in advance that are going to be going on anyway, but we just simply sequester them, collect them, attribute them to the part B part of Medicare. Savings that occur in hospitals, if you fill 600,000 hospital beds a year fewer than was intended, that is going to be a significant savings to the part A part of Medicare. But the reality is that savings occurs because of work that is done in part B. More doctors doing more procedures in their offices, doctors treating disease in a timely fashion so that fewer hospitalizations are required, doctors doing procedures in ambulatory care centers so that the high expense item of a hospital expenditure is, therefore, avoided. But all of those expenses come back to part B. It is only fair, then, that the savings that result to the system, the integrated Medicare system, those savings that come to the Medicare system, need to be attributed to the part B, especially when we have got this large price tag for repealing the SGR that confronts us. 
   Well, again, this year I want to approach things a little differently. But, again, first and foremost if you are talking about preserving the physician workforce, you have got to protect those men and women who are on the ground, in the trenches, delivering care right now. If they get dispirited and walk off the job or say, I am no longer going to care for Medicare patients or I am going to restrict Medicare patients from my practice or begin restricting the procedures that I offer to Medicare patients, we don't get good value for our dollar that way. 
   So getting that Medicare payment policy right has to be the first aspect of this physicians workforce consortium that will preserve our medical workforce for the future. Paying physicians fairly will extend the careers of many doctors who otherwise will simply opt out of the Medicare program or seek early retirement. 
   The principles of the new bill: Again, eliminate the SGR. It is critical that the SGR be eliminated, and we can't lose sight of that fact. The problem is right now I don't think there is the savings identified to eliminate the SGR nor am I convinced that the will in Congress is to eliminate the SGR in one chunk. So extend that timeline out a little bit and allow that price tag to be reduced because of the lengthening of the timeline. But eliminating the SGR is the fundamental principle that has to be followed, and the bill that I am going to introduce will eliminate the SGR in the year 2010 and in the meantime provide incentive payments based on quality reporting, technology improvement that could total as much as 6 percent to protect the physicians over these next 2 years where the cuts in the SGR arguably will be about 5 percent. 
   In both 2008 and 2009, physicians' practices can opt to take advantages of those bonuses and may, in fact, be returning value back to their businesses, and this would be a good thing. If you expand the ability to monitor patient care through health information technology, that is not just for your Medicare patients. That is going to be for all patients. So there would be a general improvement that would permeate throughout a physician's practice. Most physicians in this country don't just see Medicare or don't just see Medicaid. In fact, they see a mix of patients, some Medicare and some Medicaid, some private insurance; but all patients under a doctor's care would benefit from the advances in health information technology. 
   Let me digress for just a moment and talk a little bit about health information technology because I was a late arrival to the concept of the necessity of improving health information technology, but it really came home to me in October of 2005 when I took a trip to New Orleans. I was invited by several of the hospitals down there to come down to see how their doctors were coping with the after effects of the storm, see what had happened to some of the physical infrastructure. We spent part of the afternoon in Charity Hospital in downtown New Orleans. Charity Hospital, one of the venerable old training hospitals that has been around for generations. In fact, most of my professors at Parkland Hospital had trained a generation before at Charity Hospital in New Orleans. 
   And here is a picture of the medical records department in Charity Hospital in October of 2005. Katrina, as you recall, came through right at the end of August of 2005. It doesn't show up well, but there is still probably three or four inches of water on the floor. Like many hospitals, Charity's medical records department was in their basement. 
   The lights that you see overhead were actually pretty dim. I was able to get a good photograph because of a television crew that was following along behind us with their very bright lights. But look at the medical records, and you can see the black mold that has grown on these because of, again, the water on the floor and probably 110 percent humidity in this hot, damp basement. The records had been flooded.  And then after the water had been mostly evacuated, of course, the water damage has already happened and now you have the growth of the black mold on the records. And, really, I don't think anyone would be too interested in handling those records. 
   And even if you just look at the overall arrangement of this medical records department, you can see some records stuffed in on their sides up there. Some others have fallen down over there. It just makes you wonder about how good this paper system is if everything goes well. And if things go badly, as you can see, they can go very badly indeed. 
   Well, another aspect that clarified in my mind the importance in upgrades of health information technology, a couple of months ago, of course, when all of the newspaper stories were going on out at Walter Reed Hospital, I took a trip out there to visit with the soldiers and see for myself firsthand what the situation was in Building 18. And, correct, Building 18 was an old building and it really wasn't that nice. And I think we are all better served by the fact that our soldiers who are on medical hold are no longer being housed in Building 18. 
   But the bigger problem, Master Sergeant Blade was kind enough to explain to me what he saw as a greater degree of difficulty for our soldiers who were on medical hold waiting to see if they could rejoin their units or if they were going to be discharged from the service on a disability. And you see this rather large stack of papers that he has in front of him. That is his medical record. He is going through it with a yellow highlighter to make his case in regards to a particular disability claim. And his largest concern was, after spending hour after hour after hour going through his medical record and documenting the points that he thought were critical for him to receive the proper consideration from the Disability Board, he said it wasn't uncommon for that medical record to go sit on someone's desk for a couple of weeks and then ultimately be lost. So he was advising the men in his unit. In fact, I think it was either the second or third copy of his medical record that he was marking up in this manner so that he wouldn't run the risk of putting all his time and effort into documenting the issues surrounding his disability only to have the medical record disappear because the system really wasn't well suited to handle that. 
   And that really brought home for me the fact that, well, of course, the VA system has a relatively forward thinking electronic medical record, but the problem is the record produced by the Department of Defense doesn't talk to the VA record system, and as a consequence, the poor soldier in the middle has to spend the time and the effort going through their individual record to make certain that, again, their case gets the proper disability consideration that it deserves. 
   So just two reasons why I have become a believer in the past couple years that improving the information technology aspect of medical practice, true in hospitals but also true in physicians' offices as well, why I have become a believer that that is, indeed, something we do need to be devoting time and resources to. There are certainly problems with some of the systems that are out there, but ultimately the payoff is going to be that we will be able to deliver care faster, cheaper, smarter, and as a consequence, deliver more care and more value for our patients. 
   One of the other things that again I think is important in this endeavor and the reason I have included part of the bonus payment for quality reporting is that you can't change a system if you don't know what is going on within the system. Now, again, I would stress that this would be voluntary quality reporting, that no physician or physician's office would be required to provide quality reporting. The risk to run there is that the SGR reduction would affect that physician's bottom line in 2008 and 2009. But if a physician or medical practice opted not to do quality reporting or improvements of health information technology, beginning in the year 2010, they would indeed see a repeal of the SGR, replacing that with the Medicare Economic Index. So beginning a series of positive updates of about 2 to 2 1/2 percent in the year 2010, but, again, to forestall the pain that would go on in the years 2008 and 2009, reset that SGR baseline so the cuts are not so deep, and then provide protection for voluntary reporting measures on quality, voluntary improvements in an office's health information technology, and make these things so that they are generally available, which CMS would be tasked with making the quality reporting measures generally available, and really sort of zero in on the top 10 conditions or diagnoses where the bulk of the money is spent in the Medicare system. Not so much to emphasize quality reporting measures for esoteric diseases or diseases that are encountered once in a career but those things that are encountered over and over and over again: hypertension, diabetes, congestive heart failure. These are the types of things where the concentration of dollars is going to be located, and these are the areas where the quality reporting really needs to be focused. 
   The part of the issue there is that the quality reporting measures do have to be generally available to physicians in all specialties and all practices. We certainly don't want to see someone who is not able to participate because their particular specialty does not have an identified quality reporting mechanism. CMS and some of the specialty organizations are already pretty far down the road on this, and really at this point it has not been identified to me that there is a problem or would be a problem for a particular specialty with not having a mechanism to report quality. 
   Well, dealing with the other aspects of the physician workforce, the other two aspects of the three pieces of legislation, one would deal with physicians in residency and one would deal with those individuals who are looking to become physicians or those individuals who are in medical school. 
   The Physician Workforce Graduate Medical Education Enhancement Act of 2007 would acknowledge that it is costly to educate medical students and it is costly to get medical students through a residency program. The big programs are in more heavily populated areas that tend to attract more residencies, but we need to get the physicians out into the smaller and rural communities where the medically underserved populations actually exist and get them out there in high-needs specialties. So developing a program that would permit hospitals that do not traditionally operate a residency training program would be the second aspect of establishing and protecting the future physician workforce. So this bill would create a loan fund available to hospitals to create residency training programs where none have operated in the past. And, again, that is a critical aspect to this. This is not something that is to go in and layer on top of existing programs, but this would be to create residency programs where none has existed previously. Communities like the community of Denton, Texas, that I represent, a community like the community of Lewisville, Texas, that I represent, smaller community hospitals, 150 to 200 beds, no residency program has ever existed in those communities. These would be the types of targeted communities that perhaps we could look to for establishing residencies in primary care, OB/GYN, pediatrics, general surgery.     
   On average, it cost $100,000 a year to train a resident, and that cost for some institutions can be prohibitive. In addition, the Balanced Budget amendment, passed 10 years ago in this Congress, has a residency cap that limits resources to hospitals, such as smaller community hospitals. The loan amounts available under this bill would not exceed $1 million, and the loan would constitute start-up funding, again, for new residency programs. 
   The start-up money is essential. Since medical graduate, medical education funding can be obtained only once a residency program is established, the cost to start a training program for a smaller, more rural and/or small urban hospital can be cost prohibitive because these hospitals do operate on much narrower margins. 
   Identifying high-need physician specialties and getting young people to consider medical school, to getting young medical students to consider going into a primary care specialty, to going into one of those medically underserved areas, again, going back to the Texas Medical Association article,  the Texas Medicine article, most physicians practice close by where they did their residency. And as a consequence, there are areas in the country that do lack medical care by trained professionals. So the third aspect of this three-part health workforce, physician workforce trio of bills, the third part would ensure the availability of the adequacy of the future physician workforce in providing medical students with incentives and assistance to practice in shortage areas and shortage specialties in those shortage areas. 
   So the third bill would be to establish a mix of scholarships, loan repayment funds, and tax incentives to entice more students into medical school in the first place, and then create incentives for those students, those newly minted doctors, to become the family physicians, the general surgeons, the OB/GYNs, the pediatricians, the gerontologists, to become those practitioners of the future that are going to more likely stay in shortage areas, such as rural and small urban areas. 
   There is no question that the issues in front of us as far as the physician workforce are serious, they are significant. But the feeling is that once you have established measures that will allow the medical workforce of the future, then you can begin to refine other aspects of the health care system. And, again, as I stressed last night, we are going to have that tension between what is public and what is private. What is paid for by the government, what is paid for by insurance, what is paid for by people who wish to pay cash. Is it better to have a health savings account or rely on SCHIP or Medicaid? Those arguments we are going to have, but those arguments are going to diminish in importance if we don't do the things necessary to create and retain the physician workforce that is going to be necessary to take care of people in the future. 
   One of the greatest frustrations that I hear all the time from medical professionals, and since we are on the subject of medical professionals and how to keep physicians engaged in practicing medicine and how to get more people to consider health care as a career, obviously medical liability plays a big part in that. My home State of Texas has done an excellent job of dealing with the medical liability issue. We, on the floor of this House in Congress, in fact for the last two Congresses over the previous 4 years have passed several medical liability bills that have had at their heart a cap on noneconomic damages patterned after the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975 out in California that has been so effective in keeping the cost of providing liability insurance within reason. 
   Now, my home State of Texas, the year that I ran for Congress the first time in 2002, was in a crisis situation. We were losing insurers from the State liability. Insurers were leaving Texas because the climate was so pernicious. Rates were going up for physicians. For those companies that stayed behind, their rates were going up, doubling and sometimes tripling. 
   The State of Texas and the State legislature passed a bill in the summer of 2003 that actually again was patterned after that Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975 out in California that capped noneconomic damages. The Texas approach was a little different from the approach that we took in Congress. The approach we took in Congress had a $250,000 flat cap for noneconomic damages. The Texas solution actually took that cap and spread it out three ways; a $250,000 cap for the physician, a $250,000 cap for the hospital and a $250,000 cap for a nursing home or a second hospital, if indeed there was a second hospital involved. That required a constitutional amendment in order to become law. And that constitutional amendment was passed in September of 2003. It was not passed by a very large margin. It was essentially the grass-roots efforts of physicians, their families and their patients that got the constitutional amendment passed that allowed the Texas law to take effect. 
   But the effect of the Texas law over the ensuing 3 or 4 years has been significant. Medical liability premiums have now fallen 20-22 percent. My last insurer of record, Texas Liability Trust, has reduced insurance rates by 20 to 22 percent, depending upon the length of time that the doctor has been with the company. 
   More importantly, insurance companies have come back, liability carriers have come back to the State of Texas. We diminished from about 17 carriers to 2 in 2002. Now there are 13 or 14 carriers back in the State. And most importantly, they have come back to the State without an overall increase in their premiums. 
   One of the big beneficiaries of the law that was passed in Texas has been the smaller community-based not-for-profit hospital. The money that they were previously having to--these hospitals largely self-insured and the dollars that they were having to put in escrow against possible claims was significant. And now these hospitals have been able to put more of that capital back to work for them: capital expansions, hiring nurses, paying nurses' salaries. Exactly the kinds of things you would want your smaller community hospitals to be able to do they have now been able to do under the legislation passed in Texas. 
   Well, if Texas is in such good shape from its liability reform, is it still important to consider passing a law at this level, at the Federal level, to deal with our medical justice system? And the answer still is yes. Legislation in draft form that I had scored by the Congressional Budget Office right before we did our Republican budget a few months ago, at the request of the Budget Committee ranking member, we put forth that legislation, the Congressional Budget Office scored it as savings of $3 billion over 5 years. Well, we are already talking about other areas in the Federal expenditure of health care funds where that money is needed. And that $3 billion, in fact, it's wrong, it is unconscionable to leave that money on the table and not provide that money to other areas of the Federal expenditure for health care where it might come in handy. 
   And the bigger aspect for me, the more important aspect for me in dealing with the problem of the medical justice system at the Federal level is the dollars that are spent on defensive medicine in the Medicare system, 
   in the Medicaid system. A study from 1996, so that is 10 years ago, over 10 years ago, out in Stanford, California, estimated the cost of defensive medicine in the Medicare system, just in the Medicare system, not in the entire health care system, but just in the Medicare system, amounted to about $28 billion a year. Again, that is money we can scarcely afford to leave on the table. If those savings are available to us, indeed, we do need to be getting those dollars back. 
   But it is not just a dollars-and-cents issue. Nome, Alaska. I happened to be through there in the summer of 2003, stopping in Nome, Alaska, with a group of other Congressmen. You can imagine the Chamber of Commerce wanted to have a big lunch, so they invited us all there. And of course being a physician who was also a Member of Congress, about the entire medical staff from their hospital, all 19 physicians turned out to talk to me during the course of our stopover in Nome, Alaska. And one of the points that they wanted made was that they needed help because they couldn't afford the medical liability cost for having an anesthesiologist in their hospital. And the doctor who was telling me this story, I asked, well, what is your specialty, sir? And he said, well, I am an OB/GYN doctor just like you. And I said wait a minute, you're an OB/GYN doctor and you work in a hospital that doesn't provide anesthesia services. How do you do that? Ignore for a moment the woman who may need an epidural during child birth, what do you do if you're faced with having to do a C-section? He said, well, we get that patient and put her on an airplane and take her to Anchorage. Anchorage, probably 3 hours away. I am given to understand that they sometimes have bad weather in Nome, Alaska. It just makes no sense that we would allow a system like that to continue. We are doing nothing to enhance patient safety; we are doing nothing to enhance the ability to deliver care by allowing a system like that to continue. 
   Again, we are talking about the workforce issues. Talking to a residency director from one of the large residencies up in New York City a couple of years ago, I asked her what effect the medical liability problem was  having on attracting young physicians into their residency program. And she replied to me that we are now taking people into our residency program that 5 years ago we wouldn't even have interviewed. So these are our children's doctors. We are driving away some of the best and brightest from the desirability of the practice of health care, and we need to do better. 
   So once again I would add that, while the three bills that will establish and encourage and protect and preserve and defend the existing physician workforce and the physician workforce of the future in this country, we also need to pay attention to the medical justice system in this country. 
   We have had a number of hearings in my committee, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and our health subcommittee on this issue. There are some other suggestions out there in addition to or instead of the caps on noneconomic damages. I am willing to listen to other philosophies, but the reality is in my home State of Texas. Caps on noneconomic damages again are working. They are delivering lower premium rates for physicians. They are delivering on the promise of more flexibility for capital expenditures for small community-size hospitals because of the dollars they don't have to tie up in escrow because of the way their self-insurance plans are constructed. 
   And, again, we've seen the insurance companies come back to Texas. And I do from time to time hear people say, well, it's just the insurance companies wanting to make more money. The reality is, my old insurer in Texas was a physician-owned company, a physician-run company. It was essentially a company where all of the profits were returned back to the insurance company. We have several of those in Texas. So I don't believe it is all just a question of a profit-driven motive from the liability insurer. 
   One of the things that I think we lose sight of, and there was an article in one of the papers today that talked about the fact that America was not the premier as far as the delivery of health care. We can have a lot of arguments around that thought, around that philosophy. The American health care system in general, and certainly the Medicare program in particular, has no shortage of critics here at home and certainly abroad. But it is the American system that stands at the forefront of innovation and new technology, precisely the types of system-wide changes that are going to be necessary to efficiently and effectively provide care for Americans, and particularly for America's seniors in the future. 
   There was an article, and please don't tell anyone back in my home State of Texas that I read the New York Times, but there was a New York Times article published last October, October 5, by Tyler Cowan who writes: When it comes to medical innovation, the United States is the world leader. In the past 10 years, for instance, 12 Nobel Prizes in medicine have gone to American-born scientists working in the United States, three have gone to foreign-born scientists working in the United States, and seven have gone to researchers outside of the country.     
   He goes on to point out that five of the six most important medical innovations in the past 25 years have been developed within and because of the American system. 
   The fact is the United States is not Europe. American patients are accustomed to wide choices when it comes to hospitals, wide choices when it comes to physicians, and choices in their pharmaceuticals. Because our experience is unique and different from other countries, this difference should be acknowledged and certainly expanded when reforming either the public or the private aspect of healthcare delivery in this country. 
   Mr. Speaker, in the time that I have remaining, let me just recap again the three aspects of physician workforce that I am going to be introducing. 
   This will be a bill to repeal the so-called sustainable growth rate expenditure and replace that with a Medicare Economic Index or cost of living index for physicians beginning in the year 2010; protections in the year 2008 and 2009 for voluntary reporting and voluntary compliance with improvements in health information technology. 
   The second bill will deal with the physician workforce and graduate medical education. This will establish an interest-free loan program for eligible hospitals in rural and small urban areas to establish residency training programs for primary care, family medicine, internal medicine, pediatrics, emergency medicine, general surgeon and OB/GYN. The authorization for this will be $25 million over 10 years, those 10 years being 2008 through 2018 inclusive. Of course, the Secretary of HHS will report to Congress on the efficacy of the programs and how they are going about achieving their stated goals. 
   Finally, and interestingly enough, we voted on a bill on the floor of this House just a few hours ago that would be a loan forgiveness package for lawyers who graduate from law school with large student loans and are willing to practice as prosecutors in high need areas. This would be a very similar structured bill that would establish a scholarship program for physicians who are wanting to practice in primary care in high need areas to alleviate shortages in the fields of family medicine, internal medicine, pediatrics, emergency medicine, general surgeon and OB/GYN, again the so-called generalist physicians. 
   This authorization would be for $5 million for each of 5 years, fiscal year 2008 through 2015, a $25 million total authorization that would establish a loan repayment program for generalist physicians who agree to serve in medically underserved areas. A second authorization for an additional $25 million total would make grants to States to provide financial aid to physicians agreeing to serve in medically underserved areas and to support patient-centered coordinated care in qualified medical homes. 
   There would be additional authorizations to make grants for board certified entities to establish or expand geriatric program fellowships in rural, suburban or medically underserved communities, and, finally, a report to Congress on the efficacy of the program. 
   Then lastly, but certainly not least, amend the Internal Revenue Code so that gross income does not include compensation received by a physician from a local government for a qualified medical service that is performed in a medically underserved community and under contract with the local government for 4 years. This compensation will be taken into account as wages and must still be reported, but it just won't count toward that individual's adjusted gross income. 
   Mr. Speaker, I appreciate very much the time allotted to me this evening. These are important issues. Again, whether one comes down on the side of increased governmental control of medical care or continuation of some aspect of the private practice of medicine in this country, the critical thing is that we have the doctors there who are willing and able and trained to provide the services that we all want. 
   Additionally, for those individuals who would say expansion of the government program, the government-funded side of medical care is the only way to adequately cover people in this country, I think we have to look at how good a job we are doing right now with about the 50 percent that is devoted to the public sector in the practice of medicine. About 50 cents out of every health care dollar spent in this country has as part of its origin the United States Congress at some point or other. 
   So we have to ask ourselves, are we doing a good enough job there? And I would suggest, particularly when you look at things like the sustainable growth rate formula under which physicians are paid, I think the answer to that question would have to be no, we can do a better job with that. 
   So certainly before any consideration for expanding any part of the public part of paying for medical care in this country, we have got to be sure that we have our figures straight. We have to be certain that we are willing to tackle the tough problems of paying for those things, and certainly the SGR formula needs to be sunsetted and needs to be no longer part of the parlance and discussion on the floor of this House of Representatives.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - April 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, it has been a long week. We have had a pretty tough legislative day today. It is springtime in Washington. Springtime brings lots of different groups to town; we saw farmers this week, we saw the firefighters, first responders this week, FEMA personnel this week. We also saw some of my friends at the American Medical Association this week, many of my friends from the Texas Medical Association. They came to Capitol Hill to discuss things that are important to them in health care. And, as I frequently do at the end of the day, I thought I would come down here and talk a little bit about health care. I like to call these little visits house calls. 
   Now, prior to coming to Congress I was a practicing physician. I am still licensed; I am not insured. But in honor of my fellow physicians who are here in town this week, I brought a picture of a famous doctor. No, he is not a medical doctor; he is a physicist. This is Dr. Albert Einstein. But I thought we would have Dr. Einstein accompany me on this house call this afternoon. It is going to be a little talk about the role of healers, the role of physicians, the roles that perhaps they should play in health care reform in America. 
   Now, Dr. Einstein did a lot of famous things. He did some things that were infamous as well. He is well known for a number of quotes, and one of my favorite quotes from Dr. Albert Einstein is, ``Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again, and expecting a different result this time.'' Of course, Dr. Einstein was right. And I wanted him to be with us today because that quote is a terrific theme for a little talk about how doctors and policymakers can together work on the things that should dictate health care reform in this country. So if you would, let's have a candid conversation about health care, health care at the Federal level, health care at the provider level. 
   Now, this is an election year in this country, a Presidential election year. It happens every 4 years. There is a lot of big discussions, there is a lot of big debates, and health care will be one of those big debates. There is a broad national recognition that reform is needed in health care. There is not a lot of consensus on how to achieve that. 
   Now, every one of the Presidential candidates, those who are still active in the race, those who were active in the race and have since dropped out, everyone has or had their own ideas. It won't surprise anyone here to know that Members of Congress also have their own ideas.     
   Policymakers are focused on change. That is good. That is appropriate. And as we learned this week from visits from doctors of the American Medical Association, physicians are focused on change as well. And they must be because, after all, in this country health care begins and ends with doctors. 
   Without our doctors, there is no health care. That means our doctor friends, the ones who are in town this week, have to be ones who take an active role in the process of transforming health care in this country. We need them to take a leading role in creating the road map on reasonable reform, to go from where we are now to where we ought to be. 
   We depend upon our physician leaders because they are leaders and are proactive. They are not reactive. Think about it for a minute. When you are only in a reactive mode, what you end up with are basically band-aid solutions. You think about the term death by a thousand cuts, we can call this death by a thousand scalpels because we were talking to doctors all week. 
   You know, refusing to do something about liability laws in this country, putting the interest of trial lawyers ahead of patients, that is a cut. Let me give you an example. 
   My home State of Texas, September 2003, we enacted sweeping liability reform as it affected the health care industry. We got fair medical justice legislation out of our State legislature. It required a constitutional amendment to go into effect, but it did pass under a vote of the people. As a consequence, now some 4 or 5 years later, Texas is seeing the benefits from passing commonsense legislation that limited the amount of payouts for noneconomic damages in medical liability cases. 
   Because this Texas law has made such a difference in Texas, and let me give you an example, in 2002, the year I first ran for Congress in Texas, the number of medical liability insurers in Texas had dwindled from 17 down to two. You don't get much in the way of competitive bidding when you only have two insurance companies that are willing to write your business. But all the rest had left. The climate in Texas was so hostile that no one wanted to write insurance in Texas. 
   As a consequence, you had good doctors who were simply unable to get insurance and stopped practicing. I met a young woman during one of the stops I made during my campaign in 2002 who was a radiologist, an interventional radiologist, highly trained, highly specialized, trained by the State of Texas, State-supported schools, so the taxpayers of Texas had paid for a portion of her education. And now 4, 5 years out in practice, she lost her liability insurance and was not able to get another carrier to pick her up. It was too risky. She couldn't practice without it, and she became a full-time mom, no longer practicing interventional radiology at a time I would argue when our health care needs are doing nothing but increasing. 
   That was wrong, and the State legislature in Texas recognized that was wrong and got busy and changed it. They didn't come up with a new idea, they copied an old idea. 
   In 1974, the State of California passed a sweeping set of medical liability changes called the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1974. And with those caps on noneconomic damages, they were able to tamp down the premium increases that doctors had seen over time. And, indeed, when we passed that legislation in Texas, we have seen the same result. It does work and it should be tried in more areas. 
   In fact, I have introduced legislation similar to the Texas legislation in the House of Representatives, H.R. 3509. This bill actually scores as a saving by the Congressional Budget Office. We are in our budget time in the springtime here in Washington. We are scrapping around for every dollar we can find to pay for Federal programs. Here is a gift I will give to Congress. It is a $5 billion gift this bill would save over 5 years as estimated under the Congressional Budget Office, and it does the same things on a national scale as the Texas legislature was able to deliver for their patients back home in Texas. 
   One of the unintended beneficiaries of this whole process was the small,  community-based hospital. The small, not-for-profit community hospital had to hold many hundreds of thousands, millions of dollars in escrow against a potential bad outcome, a bad event in a liability case. They have been able to back down those holdings and invest that money in just the things you want your community hospital to invest in, like nurses and capital investment. The result has been an expansion of medical care in Texas. 
   Since that bill was passed, we had gone down to two medical liability insurers. We are now back up in excess of 20, and they have come back into the State without an increase in fees. 
   My old insurer of record, Texas Medical Liability Trust, has reduced its liability premiums 22 percent in the aggregate since the passage of this law in 2003. Clearly it works. 
   Remember, our Founding Fathers said that the States should act as great laboratories for the Nation, and things that work in States should be considered for use countrywide. And, indeed, this is one of the concepts that embodies that. 
   The principles here on the chart are pretty straightforward. It does cap noneconomic damages in a medical liability suit, $250,000 per physician, $250,000 for the hospital, $250,000 for a second hospital or a nursing home if one is involved. It does allow for some periodic payment, and it allows for good Samaritan care. Very sensible, straightforward legislation. It is not a complicated bill, and it behaves as advertised. And that is one of the things in this Congress, we just heard a gentleman talking about solutions. Here is a solution. I offer it as a gift to the United States House of Representatives. It saves $5 billion over the next 5 years. Use that money somewhere else because in a $3 trillion budget, there are plenty of places you can spend money. 
   Another place where we apply just a band-aid where we really need to do something major is in how we reimburse physicians for taking care of Medicare patients. They are taking care of our Medicare patients. Medicare is one of the largest deliverers of health care in the country, indeed the world. We have asked doctors to take care of our Medicare patients. They are some of our most complex patients. They have multiple conditions, multiple diseases, frequently on multiple medications, and we have asked the medical community since 1965 to provide care for these patients. 
   What do we do in return? We passed legislation a number a years ago that reduces year over year the amount we reimburse for that care. That doesn't make any sense. Can you imagine a doctor, a small businessman, going to his banker with a business plan. He says I am going to expand my business and I have this business plan, and part of the business plan is I am going to make 10 percent less every year, year over year as far as the eye can see. 
   Well, even back in the subprime days, no banker is going to make a loan on that type of business plan. How do we expect physicians across the country who are small business owners, how do we expect them to survive? And they certainly cannot thrive in that kind of an environment. 
   We do this because we have created a condition called the sustainable growth rate formula. I have put it up on this poster, and I am not going to go through this line by line. It is available on the Website of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services. But just to demonstrate the complexity of this formula and to point out that going through all of these calculations, the final line in this formula is that you go back to 1996 and capture all of the money that you should have saved and add it on at the end. It is a formula that is destined to fail over time. Until we in Congress recognize that this formula is destined to fail over time, repeal it, reverse it, revise it, get rid of it, stop the cuts, pay the doctors what they are owed, and get on with things. 
   Currently in this country, we have Medicare divided into four parts. Each part is supposed to be an integrated member of the whole. We have Parts A, B, C and D. Part A deals with hospitalizations; Part B compensates physicians; Part C is Medicare HMOs; and Part D is drugs. 
   Every part of Medicare with the exception of the physician payment receives a cost-of-living adjustment year over year. Part B is different. It is governed under the sustainable growth rate formula. So a hospital will receive ever-increasing amounts of compensation because the cost of inputs increases, because a drug company or HMO will receive an upgrade every year, year over year because the cost of doing business increases, physician reimbursement will decline over time. Clearly, that is unsustainable. 
   I have a real problem here in Congress. I show this formula to any Member of the House of Representatives, although they recognize that patient access is a problem, physicians are in peril, although they recognize those features, this is very difficult to understand. This quickly goes into the ``too-hard box'' in someone's mind, and we are just not going to deal with it. But Congress must deal with this. 
   An example of how we don't deal with it, last December we were right up against a deadline. Cuts were going to go into effect on January 1, so at the last minute we came to this House and we passed a bill that would delay these cuts by 6 months. What an insult to the practicing physicians in America. What an insult that this was all the time we would expend on this very important issue that affects virtually every aspect of their practice life. 
   I say that because it is not just the Medicare reimbursement that is affected, but literally every private insurance company in this country pegs to Medicare. And so if Medicare does a 5 percent or 10 percent cut, guess what happens to Blue Cross/Blue Shield, United, on down the line. They will follow suit. Can't blame them for doing so, it is the market price. But as a consequence, this House of Representatives, this Congress, exerts wage and price controls over health care in this country that most of us here don't really have an understanding of. 
   So last December we passed a 6-month delay on phasing in the Medicare cuts. We have to deal with that before the end of June. It is the first of April. Half of that time has been consumed. Half of that time has been squandered, and have we seen any meaningful effort in my committee, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, which has jurisdiction over Part B in Medicare? No, we haven't. We did steroid hearings, for crying out loud, on baseball players. This is the work we should be doing. 
   We heard the other gentleman talk about solutions. 
   Here is a solution we could wrap up and give to patients in America, and they would be the better for it. 
   Now, one of the other things that happened in December which we didn't get done, and sometimes in a way it is a good thing that we don't get things done. We talk a lot about trying to bring the architecture and information technology in health care, to bring it on up into the 21st century. It is a difficult concept for a lot of people to understand. It is difficult for some people to understand why we don't just flip a switch and turn on a computer and make it happen. 
   One of the bills that we saw come to Congress last December which didn't get passed was a bill that was going to mandate that physicians in the Medicare program use electronic prescribing. 
   Conceptually, it is a good idea. I am a physician. I am left-handed and have bad handwriting. Every year older I get, my handwriting doesn't get any clearer. So e-prescribing will remove some of those problems. And yes, it could reduce error rates. And yes, it will immediately flag things like medicines that are in conflict with each other and allergies that a patient has. 
   So it is a good concept, but what do we do with it here in Congress? We make it punitive. We come to the medical community and say here is our grand plan for e-prescribing. First of all, we give you $2,000 to invest in the infrastructure. Two thousand dollars; $2,000, do you have any idea how much these programs cost and how much it costs to buy the infrastructure and do the training? It is far in excess of $2,000. In addition to that, if you do this e-prescribing program, we are going to give you a 1 percent bonus over time for doing this program. But if you haven't done it in 4 years' time, we are going to come back with a $10 penalty for every patient that you see. 
   Well, a 1 percent bonus, that is better than nothing, but think about it for a  moment. In my practice if I saw a Medicare patient, return visit, moderately complex, on a good day, if that was a $50 visit, they reimbursed $50, that would be a miracle in itself. But let's do it that way because it makes the math easy and I'm not good at math. So a $50 patient visit. And if I am really moving and if I am really on my game, I can see four of those patients in an hour. So that is a $200 hour that I have put in in the clinic that morning. And we are going to get a 1 percent bonus for that. So for each of those four patients I saw in that hour, I am going to get an extra 50 cents. That is a $2 an hour increase. Well, that is not a lot when you think about all of the extra work that goes into maintaining and training for these e-prescribing programs.     
   But what if I don't do it, what's going to happen then? In 4 years' time, we're going to come back with a 10 percent reduction. What does that 10 percent reduction mean to that same hour of intensity, that same hour of work applied 4 years later? Well, a 10 percent reduction, instead of now a $2 increase, I get a $20 penalty for seeing those four patients but not using e-prescribing. 
   If you couple that on top of the program, 10 percent cuts that are supposed to go in year after year, is it any wonder that when you pick up a phone and try to make a new patient appointment in a doctor's office, they say, I'm sorry, we're full, I'm sorry, we're not taking any new Medicare patients. And this is becoming a crisis for our seniors all because Congress will not do the work for our physician community and for our patients. And it's work we've asked our physicians to do. Since 1965, we have asked them to participate in this program. 
   But let's stay on the concept of information technology for just a moment. And I will tell you, Mr. Speaker, I haven't always been a big fan of some of the advanced and higher information technology, electronic medical records. Yeah, those were good for someone else, maybe not for me. E-prescribing, I did it with a couple different vendors in my private practice. It never was all that it was cracked up to be. But in August of 2005, late August of 2005, I changed my mind on this subject. And I changed my mind on this subject because of a very harsh event that happened in America, and that was the passage of Hurricane Katrina over the City of New Orleans. 
   And we all know the story there, the multiple breaches in the levees and the city flooded. And one of the consequences of that city flooding was the flooding of one of the venerable old health care institutions in this country, Charity Hospital in New Orleans. The basement was flooded for weeks. Guess what we have in our basements of our hospitals around the country? That's where we put our records. That's where we store these paper records. 
   So, here is a visit. In January of 2006, we did a field hearing on one of my subcommittees on Energy and Commerce. We went down into the basement of Charity Hospital in New Orleans. The room had been dewatered. Prior to that visit, I didn't even know ``dewatered'' was a verb. The room had been dewatered, and here is the medical records department. 
   Now, this black stuff that you see smudged on the charts, and these are rows and rows of medical charts, you can see the identifying patient numbers on the end, this black material smudged on the charts is not soot from a fire, it's black mold. That means that anyone who comes in here and pulls a record off the shelf is going to get a lung full of mold spores. And clearly, because of that hazardous condition, these records will never be accessed again. And of course you can imagine, this room was under water for weeks and weeks and weeks. The effect of salt water, brackish water on the ink that went to record these medical events, these records were likely unreadable even if someone had been willing to hazard the mold spores to pull one off the shelf. So, all of this data is lost forever. 
   And we don't know what's in there. Perhaps a kidney transplant, perhaps a premature birth, perhaps just a well-baby check. Absolutely impossible to tell. This was so critical because when many of the people who left New Orleans after that storm, after the difficulties that were encountered in the aftermath, a lot of those individuals came to Dallas, Texas and they arrived on the parking lot at Reunion Arena, where they were to be triaged to receive health care if they needed, housing, start to get their lives back on track. There were many people who arrived there who actually had significant medical conditions. And it was very, very difficult to obviously go back and access these records that were, in effect, under water in the City of New Orleans. 
   Now, there were some big chain pharmacies who arrived on the scene with a mobile truck. And using the information that they could download off their central computer system, from a patient's name and birth date they were able to recreate medicine lists. And I will just tell you, if you can get an accurate medicine list on a patient, a lot of times you can know a great deal about their medical history given the types of medications they were on. Or, if nothing else, here was verification that this was the anti-hypertensive that this patient needed, this was the type of diabetes medication that this patient was on. It accelerated care for these patients in an unbelievable fashion. 
   And these two series of events made me a believer in electronic medical records. If you have an electronic medical record that stays with the patient, that follows the patient throughout life, that can be accessed by the patient, be accessed by that patient's physician if the patient gives permission. If you have that capability, that would have gone a long way towards the rapid reinstitution of medical care. For some patients who are, frankly, quite ill, not just because their underlying medical condition made them ill, but they were ill from spending several days in water up to their waists, or in the Superdome where they lacked air conditioning or lacked access to some of the most basic facilities for hygiene, these were patients in distress because of their medical condition and because of the conditions in which they had existed after the storm. 
   So, how much better was it to be able to resume their care because there was the availability of at least a small amount of data that could be retrieved electronically. If a patient had their own medical record over which they had control, much, much more facile to be able to treat those patients in that type of situation. 
   Now, we do hear a lot, here in Congress there are various bills and ideas out there, as far as how to get the health care community up to speed on electronic medical records or health information technology, as you frequently hear it referred to here in Congress. There was a big study done a few years ago by the RAND people. And in this study they talk about the billions of dollars, $77 billion, that can be saved over 15 years if we go to an electronic medical record model. Now, that's a significant amount of money. And the study is a very meaningful one, very well thought out, very well constructed. Most people don't go much more deeply into it than that, but if you actually take the trouble to read the RAND study, if you look into it, most of those savings actually occur on up towards that 15th year of that study. 
   Most of the investment in information architecture is going to be done on an individual basis and wasn't included in the cost or the benefit of the RAND study, so it skews the figure a little bit on the plus side because of that; no allowance for training, no allowance for maintenance. But, nevertheless, still they do show a significant savings available by going to electronic medical records. 
   Their sum-up paragraph, the very last paragraph of the study, they say for this world to go away and the electronic world to occur, it is going to take incentives. And they talk about incentives that they must begin early, that is, you want to be sure and make that incentive available so that you don't penalize someone for getting in early, or more importantly, you 
   don't reward a late adopter. So, the incentives have to be available early. And the time limit that the incentives are available, the time frames that the incentives are available have to be limited. 
   But the final point, and the one that is always missed on the floor of this  Congress, is the incentives must be substantial. I would submit to you that a 1 percent increase in a Medicare patient's compensation for an office visit for using e-prescribing does not fall into the category of a substantial benefit. And then, as we so often do here in Congress, we go on to add insult to injury by saying, if you don't do it, we're going to punish you. Here's a little carrot, but a big stick if you don't do what we've asked you to do. 
   So, I do think that the day will come when we will see a great deal more adoption of electronic medical records. Some of the things I think we could do are: encourage the private sector, that is really light-years ahead of the Federal Government on this, perhaps with a little relaxation of some regulatory regimens called the Stark provisions, perhaps with at least some definition of what privacy is and what privacy means so people have some certainty about the systems that they're developing. Maybe a little bit on the liability side. And true enough, ask something from the private sector in return. If it's an insurance company that's developing this model, make certain that the information itself is owned by the patient and may travel with the patient if they transition from one company to another, or if they transition from one employer and they go to individually owned insurance, make certain that that information is not lost in that transaction and the patient can control the information. 
   But I do believe if we put some of our partisan differences aside, we could devise a scenario that would be conducive to the development of this type of technology. And again, as the gentleman who was talking before me kept talking about solutions, these are the types of solutions that the American people want to see us working on. Again, they're not really interested if we hold another hearing about steroids in baseball. They are interested if we can provide them this type of value in their doctor/patient interactions. 
   Now, one of the other concerns that I have when you hear people talk about health care, and certainly when you hear people talk about it at the national scale, is, well, why don't we expand the Medicare program. Please be advised, in my opinion, the Medicare program, for all the good things that it does do, has enough areas of uncertainty around it that, number one, I don't think it is the type of program in which we want to be placing everyone. 
   But going back to the SGR formula, I spent probably 40 to 60 percent of my week dealing with problems that are brought about by difficulties administered through Medicare, Medicaid, SCHIP, all of the Federal systems that we have to provide health care in this country. We are not doing a great job. 
   So, at this point, I don't see the value in rewarding the Federal Government by giving it a greater and greater share of health care in this country. And I would simply ask the question, does the private sector have a role to play in the delivery of health care in the United States of America? My answer to the question is yes. And, in fact, a long hearing that we had today dealing with Medicaid funding, if you do not have the private sector, you have no way to pay for Medicare and Medicaid because, let's be honest, Medicare and Medicaid do not pay the full cost of the care that's rendered. Hospitals, physicians and clinics across the country have to cross-subsidize their Medicare and Medicaid populations with money from their private practices, with money that they receive from the private sector. 
   So, I would submit that the private sector does have a role to play in the delivery of health care in this country because, at the very least, right now we depend upon the excess payment from the private sector to fund the cross-subsidization for Medicare and Medicaid. 
   One last thing about the physician's compensation let me talk about, because I've been very critical of the way the current majority, the current leadership handled the Medicare reimbursement at the end of 2007, but I must say at the end of 2006, when my side was in charge, we didn't do a great deal better. 
   We decided to provide a 1-1.5 percent increase in physician compensation if doctors were willing to undergo some quality reporting. Now, quality reporting generally would be thought of as a good thing, but again, the incentive was so low as to not cover the cost of collecting the data. And now, after the first year and a half of this initiative called the Physician Quality Reporting Initiative, started out life as PVRP, and then became PQRI, the results are pretty disappointing. Not that quality wasn't there, the results are disappointing because it wasn't worth the time of the doctors and clinics around the country to participate in the program. Almost 90,000 physicians across the country could have participated in a reporting program for asthma patients, but, in fact, less than 100 did. 
   Again, if incentives are going to work, if incentives are going to be worthwhile, they have to be meaningful. If you provide a meaningless incentive, then the person who is to receive the incentive says, this is information you really don't value, so I'll tell you what, I'm not going to bother with it, it's not worth it to me. 
   Incentives will work; they will work if they're meaningful, they will work if they start early, they will work if they're time limited, but they must, above all else, they must be substantial. 
   Now, again, I referenced earlier that a physician's office is nothing more than a small business. They need the resources to pay the overhead. We heard a very moving story today in committee of a pediatrician who practiced in Alabama. Her patient population was 70 percent Medicaid, and she had reached the point in her practice where she wasn't covering overhead any longer; she had to borrow from her savings in order to keep her practice open. And from what she described to us, it sounded as if she had done all the things she could do to hold costs down in her practice, extended hours, hired physician extenders, she had a physician's assistant working with her. But the reality is, because the payment for Medicaid patients is so low for physicians, the result is, if they don't have a sufficient private population, again, to bring those earnings up, they're not going to make it. So, a practice that is 70 percent Medicaid in rural Alabama apparently can't make it paying the overhead and trying to keep the doors open for, again, the very critically ill patients, the disadvantaged patients, the patients that we in Congress have asked this doctor to take care of. 
   It is disappointing, to say the least, it's a travesty, it's a tragedy, that a doctor in that situation will only be able to keep that up so long. There are only so many nights you can go home and explain to your family that, once again, you had to raid the retirement savings or raid the children's college fund simply to pay for operational expenses to keep the office open, because if you were doing that, bear in mind, that physician is not drawing a paycheck for those months either. 
   So, it's difficult for doctors to build their businesses. It's difficult for doctors to pay their bills when the very policies developed on the floor of this House are so detrimental to the practice of medicine.     
   And if we can continue to accept these types of Band-Aid solutions in liability, in Medicare, in Medicaid, if we continue to accept those Band-Aid solutions, just like Dr. Einstein said, we're going to get the same results, or worse. 
   Doctors are leaving Medicare as a result of some of the activities taken on by this country. It is time, it is time for this Congress to step up and do something new, try something new. I mean, 435 leaders, elected by their respective constituents across the country; 435 leaders, we need to lead. 
   We need to do the hard work, take a short-term, a mid-term and a long-term approach to these problems. And they're not insoluble. They're hard, to be sure. They're complex. They may require hours of work. They may require some hard bargaining and, at the end, they may require some compromise. But solutions are within our grasp. 
   But when we do stuff like a 6-month Medicare payment fix, we do more than harm the physicians who we've asked to take care of our Medicare patients. We do more than harm our seniors who now pick up the phone and can't find a doctor who will accept their Medicare. We actually harm the very credibility of this institution, and we undermine the credibility of this institution when  we take such short-sighted approaches to very significant national problems. And the American people, correctly, stand back and say, what's going on? 
   And so is it any wonder that approval ratings of Congress are at historic all time lows? 
   Well, to be certain, there are health care policy reform questions and goals that, over time, and with some thoughtful deliberation, can result in successes. But we're going to have some big questions we have to answer. 
   And that's one of the fortunate things about being in the middle of an election year because these things now get elevated to a national forum; there's a national referendum, if you will, about the future of health care. 
   We'll have really, I expect, some fairly different choices out there to make. We'll have to ask ourselves, how are we going to go through these changes and continue to value that interaction that takes place between the doctor and the patient in the treatment room? After all, that's the fundamental unit of production that occurs in this big, vast machine that we call American medicine. 
   So how do we keep that relationship sacred? And what do we do that delivers value to that relationship? 
   We're going to hear a lot of talk about mandates. We already have. We hear people talk about individual mandates, where every individual is required to buy health insurance. We hear things about employer mandates, where every employer is required to have health insurance. 
   Do mandates work? Are they a good thing? Will they work in a free society? How do you force everyone to do what you think is a good idea and ought to be done? 
   Well, it turns out it can be terribly difficult to do that, and the history of mandates is sketchy, to say the least. 
   A very good article in Health Affairs, a magazine or periodical called Health Affairs last November, the title was Consider It Done, talking about mandates. We're there; we've reached the promised land and we're going to have mandates to require health insurance. 
   But even in that article, as they go through the history of mandates in this country, certainly raises some valuable questions about whether or not mandates will ultimately work. 
   And going back into the 1960s, there was the helmet law brought to motorcycle riders by this United States Congress. And the outcry was so severe when Members of Congress went home from their constituents who were part of the motorcycle riding community that they very quickly came back and said, well, that's a State's issue. We're going to repeal that at the national level and, Mr. State Legislator, you're going to have to deal with that; Governor, you'll have to deal with that as a problem, and States have over the intervening 40 years. Some States, my home State of Texas does not require a helmet. Some States do. But Congress very quickly found out that mandates can have some negative consequences. 
   Well, can you get 100 percent compliance with a mandate? Some people argued that if the penalty for not complying is severe enough and well-known enough, that you will, indeed, get near that 100 percent compliance. But think about it for a minute. 
   We're just a few weeks away from April 15. We've all got to pay our income taxes. There's a mandate. Everyone is aware of the income tax law in this country. Everyone is aware of the Internal Revenue Service. Everyone is aware, they may not be aware of the specific penalties, but if they know that they don't do what they're supposed to do there is a very swift and sure penalty out there awaiting them from the Internal Revenue Service. And all of us know the story of Al Capone, who was arrested not for being a bootlegger and doing bad things to people, but arrested because he did not pay his income taxes. 
   So you would think, with the mandate for paying Federal income taxes, that there would be near 100 percent compliance. But the reality is you get about 85 percent compliance. You get about 15 percent of people who decide not to follow the rules with the Internal Revenue Service. 
   In fact, you'll hear us talk about it on the House floor, especially this time of year when taxes are due and we're talking about budgets and we're looking for more money. People on the floor of the House will talk about the tax gap, that is $300 billion, and if we had that $300 billion we could do good and great things for the country. We have the tax gap because we have 15 percent of the people in this country who are willing to look at the penalties for not filing their income tax and say, you know what? I'm not going to file my income tax. 
   How many people do we have this it country without health insurance? A lot. It's about 15 percent of the population. We have 300 million people in this country, give or take, probably more than that now. That figure's a couple of years old. And how many people do we have without health insurance? People argue about the number, but around 45 million, and that's about 15 percent of what our population is in this country. 
   We already have that compliance, even without mandates. So are mandates going to take us to a higher level of compliance? 
   And what do we give up in terms of freedom if we go down the road of mandates? 
   But to me, more importantly, what's the flip side to mandates? If you're not going to have mandates, okay, well how are you going to get people to recognize that they should have health insurance? 
   Well, one thing you can do is work on the affordability side because it's no question, if the bills get too high the employer's going to say I'm not going to provide insurance for my employees any longer because it becomes cost prohibitive. And if an individual looks at the individual market and says the cost is so high I'm not going to comply with it. So certainly the affordability side is a big part of the equation. 
   But more importantly, it's creating problems that people want. It's creating programs that people recognize as delivering value back to their lives. 
   And we do have a little experience with this over the past 5 years. We did, in a number of Medicare reforms in 2003, provide Medicare Part D, a Medicare prescription drug benefit. And there were those in this House who argued that this should be something that is mandated by the Federal Government and completely controlled by the Federal Government. 
   There were others who argued that maybe it would be better to let companies compete with seniors for that business. And that was the argument that eventually prevailed. And as a consequence, we had, at the roll out of Medicare part D, we had complaints because there's too many choices; there's too many companies out there that are offering this, and I can't make up my mind. The cost ranges from $10 a month to $50 a month, and how in the world am I ever going to know what I'm supposed to do? 
   But after some of the louder rhetoric died down and people began to look at these programs, indeed, these were programs that delivered value to a segment of the population who had never had an affordable prescription drug benefit available to them before and, as a consequence, the penetration with this benefit is extremely high in the Medicare population. And the overall satisfaction rate is also extremely high. 
   So that's perhaps a model for us to consider when we talk about things about how do we provide insurance. We tell everybody you've got to have it, but there are going to be some people who just won't do it. We make programs that are affordable and that appeal to people, that people want. People want to be able to provide protection for their families. They want to be able to provide additional help if health care is needed in their families. So that would be another way to approach. 
   One of the great privileges of serving in the United States House of Representatives, you occasionally get to go places or meet people that you otherwise may not have gotten to meet. And for me that hour came last fall when I had the opportunity to spend an hour with one of my heroes, Dr. Michael DeBakey down in Houston. Many people know Dr. DeBakey as a famous heart surgeon. He was also the individual who developed the Mobile Army Surgical Hospital that has been responsible for the saving of so many lives in our Nation's conflicts over the last 50 years. Dr. DeBakey himself is going to turn 100 years old this year, so it was a  phenomenal ability to talk with an individual who has witnessed and lived through and directed the last century of medicine. 
   And many of the comments Dr. DeBakey made to me were similar to the same things that I wrestle with; how do you provide mandates? How do you require mandates in a free society? Wouldn't it be better to give people things, make available to people things that they would want and would willingly sign up for, rather than forcing them into individual programs that really might not appeal to them? 
   One of the other things that Dr. DeBakey said to me that gives me, really gives me a lot of hope, really gives me a lot of optimism in looking forward to the future, because he said, Congress can do this. Congress is up to this task. And he said he knew that because when he was a young man, having just graduated from LSU, I'm sorry, graduated from Tulane down in New Orleans, Louisiana, as a young man, after graduating from medical school he had to go to Europe in order to get the credentials in order to be a research physician. Those credentials were not available to him at American institutions, so he went to France and Germany and did his study there in order to get the credentials to be seen as a credible researcher. 
   But that changed in the 1940s, and it changed because of the efforts of Congress in funding research at the National Institutes of Health, and developing the types of programs that now allow America to be at the forefront of research across the globe. And scientists come here to train, come here to get those credentials, those same credentials that Dr. DeBakey had to cross the ocean to receive a half century ago. 
   So he told me, Congress can do this and I know Congress can do this because they've done it in the past. They've tackled big things and they've come to the right conclusion. 
   Well, I pray that he's right. I wouldn't be here if I didn't believe that he was right. But it is going to be difficult to do that. 
   Now, I can't make all of these things happen by myself. And one of the reasons you're in Congress is because you want to work with others. Well, maybe that's not the reason you're in Congress. But nevertheless, Mr. Speaker, you're in Congress and you do work with others, as is the nature of this body. There's 434 other individuals who have to be consulted, whose vote has to be one before you're going to be able to see your policies become law. 
   So I will just tell you one of the things I've learned. You can have the best ideas in the world, and you can have all of the enthusiasm and all of the energy required to get those things over the line, but if you don't have people working with you, if you don't have people helping you, it's going to be very difficult to get those things done. 
   So I am very grateful, with the legislation that I have, to help reform the Medicare payment formula, the bill Number 5545, I do have help. I've got help now over in the Senate. I've got help from the doctors in the American Medical Association. And very important to me, I've got help from my doctors with the Texas Medical Association. And I think together we can get this work done. 
   There's not a Member of Congress that I've talked to when I've asked them how things are going with their doctors back home who doesn't bring up the problems that their doctors bring in to them about the Medicare payment formula. So the groundwork has been done, and now it's up to us in this Congress to get that accomplished. 
   And a little preventive medicine will go a long way, will go a long way in fixing some of these problems. 
   And if you know that two trains are coming at each other down the track and it looks like tragedy's inevitable, what do you do? What does this responsible person do? Do they run down to the track and see if they can find the appropriate switch, or warn somebody off to avert the disaster? Or do you run home and get your video camera so you'll be the first one to get it up on YouTube? I would submit the responsible thing to do is to try to avert the disaster, and not simply document its destructive events. 
   Mr. Speaker, as our time draws short and this week is going to draw to a close, let me just reflect on a couple of things from the last century of medicine. The last century of medicine I do feel I have some interest in, some ability to talk about that. My father was a physician. His father before him was a physician, so between the three of us, we pretty much occupied the last century in the delivery of health care. 
   And over the last century, we saw some incredibly transformative things occur within the science of medicine, and we saw some incredibly transformative things occur at the social level, at the legislative level.     
   And you think back to what the state of medicine was coming into at the end of the first decade of the last century, what things were like coming up to 1910, medical schools across the country where the curricula was so varied. There was no standardization. The graduate of one medical school could be well-trained and the graduate of another medical school could be woefully inadequate. 
   We were right upon the time of intense scientific discovery: Anesthesia was coming into its own, the ability to administer a blood transfusion, the knowledge about blood blanking was coming into its own. Immunizations, the whole science of immunology was just coming upon the scene. And at the same time, from Congress, a group of individuals were convened called the Flexner Commission. They came up with a report called the Flexner Report which called for the standardization of medical school curricula across the country, and that stabilization of medical school curricula allowed for the stable platform on which those scientific discoveries could be based and set the stage for some of the great scientific breakthroughs that were yet to come. 
   And right around the corner, some 30 years later, we were engaged in the activities of the second world war. A scientist in great Britain had found an odd thing had happened when he grew a mold in a petri dish and it inhibited the growth of bacteria. And he had discovered Penicillin. That was 1928. But that was a little more than a laboratory curiosity. There wasn't really anything you could do with it on a commercial basis. There certainly wasn't any patient application for this until American scientists discovered in the 1940s how to produce this on a mass scale, the cost came way down, and the first antibiotic became commercially available, and relatively cheaply, to large numbers of people. 
   It changed the course of things in the second world war. This happened right before D-Day. And think of the life and limb that was saved by the ability to fight inspection reliably for the first time with a chemotherapeutic agent. 
   Also, around the same time, cortisone had been discovered earlier, but cortisone was one of those things that was very rare, very difficult to get. You obtained it at the slaughter house. Very, very labor intensive. A Ph.D. chemist, a gentleman that we honored in this House last Congress, Percy Julian, an African American scientist, found a way to extract cortisone from soy beans. Well, that changed the course. Suddenly this very potent anti-inflammatory agent became readily available in large quantities at a relatively low cost. 
   On the social side in the 1940s, we saw some big changes in the practice of medicine because we were in the middle of the Second World War. President Roosevelt wanted to keep down trouble from inflation so he put wage and price controls in place across the land. Employers wanted to keep the few employees who were still able to work for them. They wanted to keep them coming to work. So they said, can we provide benefits to our employees since we can't raise their wages? Can we provide them benefits? 
   The Supreme Court ruled that, indeed, did not violate the spirit of the wage and price controls. Those benefits could be given to individuals and, oh, by the way, they could be given with pre-tax dollars. And that set the stage for employer-derived insurance, and some people would argue it has given us some of the difficulties that we now encounter 60 or 70 years later. 
   But nevertheless, in the 1940s we saw for the first time commercially available, large-scale quantities of antibiotics, anti-inflammatory and health insurance. And think about how the next several decades were changed.  
   In the 1960s, we saw similar changes. For the first time we saw reliable drugs to fight hypertension become available. Anti-psychotics became available. Antidepressants became available. And in the midst of all of that scientific change, there also occurred a big change in that this Congress, or this House of Representatives, passed a bill that we now know as the Medicare bill. 
   In 1965 when Medicare was enacted, for the first time the Federal Government had a large footprint in health care in this country, and, of course, it has grown significantly since that time in ways that probably most of the people who are on the floor of this House voted for that bill would never have imagined that it would spend in excess of $300 billion a year, but that's where we find ourselves now. 
   Think of where we are now on just the beginning of the dawn of the 21st century. The human genome has been sequenced. You can go on line and find a place that, for a little less than a thousand dollars, will investigate your human genome, will tell you your risk factors for diseases like multiple sclerosis, heart disease, diabetes, even being overweight. It's phenomenal to have that information literally at our fingertips. When I was a resident at Parkland Hospital in the 1970s, I never would have imagined that that type of information would be available to people so cheaply and so easily. I never would have imagined that there was anything called the Internet, but nevertheless, that information that could be so easily accessed. 
   We are indeed at a transformative time in medicine in this country. I referenced information technology. Think of the speed of change of information technology, how things are progressing and evolving so rapidly that it really isn't reasonable to ask the Federal Government to keep up and moderate those changes. We need to depend on the private sector to do that because it's happening so fast. 
   But as medicine is transformative, Congress, by its very nature, can't be transformative. We are transactional. We take money from one group and we give it to the next. That's what we do. We collect the taxes, we spend the money. Congress is inherently a transactional body. But Dr. DeBakey said Congress can do this; Congress can participate in the transformation of delivering health care in this country. 
   Well, I thank Dr. DeBakey for his wise counsel. I thank the American Medical Association for being up here this week. It is not easy taking time away from their families and their practices and their practices to come here and interact with legislators such as myself and other Members on both sides of the aisle to help explain and help us understand some of the very complex issues that they face on a day-to-day basis, yes, dealing with sick people but also dealing with this vast morass of regulations and rules that we lay at their feet every year. 
   And most of all, I want the American people over this next year's time to focus on this grand debate that we are going to have at the national level. Your future is dependent upon it. Certainly your children's future and your children's children's future is dependent upon it. 
   Think of the Congress back in 1965. It enacted Medicare and had no idea what it would be like 40 years hence. The same things apply today. The decisions we make on the floor of this body today, 30 and 40 years from now are going to look decidedly different. And I would say help us to make the right kinds of decisions so that the American citizens, 30 and 40 years' time from now, will look back and say the 110th Congress stepped up and did the right thing. 
   Mr. Speaker, it has been a long week, and with that, I am going to yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (DEATH IS LESS COMPLICATED THAN FILLING OUT YOUR 1040 -- (House of Representatives - February 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, it's been said over and over again that nothing in this world is certain except death and taxes. I was a practicing physician for over 25 years back in Texas, and I will tell you that sometimes death even seems a little less complicated than our tax system. 
   The complexity of the Tax Code is a consequence of countless deductions and exemptions aimed at steering a social agenda, a social agenda, when it's supposed to be a Tax Code. The result is a Federal law fraught with opportunities for avoiding taxes and loopholes to be exploited all at the expense of fellow Americans. 
   Everyone is familiar with the problems inherent in our convoluted Tax  Code. Criticizing the Tax Code is as American as apple pie and baseball, and for good reason. Each year Americans spend billions of hours and billions of dollars trying to do their best to comply with our complicated Tax Code. That's not counting the billions of hours they spend complaining about it. 
   Madam Speaker, time is precious, and too often we don't have enough of it for the personal things we like, such as earning a living, raising our families, spending time with friends. And then there is the dollars and cents side of this equation where time is money, and valuable resources are squandered navigating tax law instead of spent growing the economy and creating jobs. Taken together, this is a strong prescription for real change in our Tax Code. 
   We know what works when it comes to changing the code because we caught a glimpse of it when Ronald Reagan cut the code in half in 1986. As a result of that reform, the economy grew, revenues increased, and jobs were created. I can't think of a better prescription for our slowing economy than replicating the reform of the Tax Code on an even greater scale. 
   So what should we do? The prescription is also pretty simple: flatten the tax, broaden the base, and shift the burden away from families and small businesses. 
   The encouraging news is that we have a practical and effective blueprint for making this real change across the board. This blueprint is called the flat tax. In 1981, Robert Hall and Alvin Rabushka proposed a new and radically simple structure that would transform the Internal Revenue Service and our economy by creating a single rate of taxation for all Americans. Today, several States have implemented a single-rate tax structure for their State income taxes, and from Utah to Massachusetts citizens are seeing the benefit. 
   In Colorado, a single tax rate generated so much income, so much revenue, that lawmakers actually reduced the rate less than 10 years after its implementation. In Indiana, the economy boomed after a single rate went into effect in 2003, and since that time, the corporate income tax receipts have risen by 250 percent. 
   Here in Congress we have several people working on the problem. People such as myself; Congressman DAVID DREIER from California, the ranking member of the Rules Committee; and PAUL RYAN of Wisconsin, the ranking member on the Budget Committee, are all working to establish a simple tax rate structure for our United States. Other Members are working on it in the other body as well. 
   I brought a poster to show you how a faster, flatter, fairer tax structure would work, and it's pretty simple. Here you go: Your name, a little bit of identification data, write in your income, a line for personal exemptions, calculate your deductions for personal exemptions, taxable income, calculate the tax by multiplying by a flat rate, subtract taxes already withheld, and you're done. What did it take, 30 seconds? Not very long. 
   No more expensive tax attorney bills. Gone are the hours of stressful research trying to figure out whether your military service or your marital status will adversely affect your return. No more headaches trying to determine where the estimated tax payments go.     
   A single tax rate structure would eliminate taxes on capital gains, taxes on dividends and taxes on savings. Personal savings would increase. Businesses would expand and create jobs. Without the heavy corporate income tax, which is currently the second highest in the industrialized world, companies would have less incentive to offshore their headquarters, and more importantly, less incentive to offshore their earnings. 
   And here is where the all-American principle of freedom comes into the prescription: The decision to move to a single rate system would be entirely up to the individual or business, not the government. This would be an optional program. If somebody has constructed their domestic finances or their business finances to maximize earnings under the current Federal income tax code, they will be allowed to stay in the code. But if you are tired of the shoe box, if you want to fill out a single page form and spend the rest of that time with your family or on a personal vacation, you are free to do so. 
   A flat tax would be much less costly, saving taxpayers more than $100 billion per year, and reduce tax compliance costs by over 90 percent. The resulting increase in personal savings, there is a stimulus package that would have an immediate effect on our American economy. 
   Recent polling by American Solutions shows that over 80 percent of Americans favor an optional one-page tax return with one rate. After all, who could complain about making something easier, especially a process that comes at such high cost? 
   Madam Speaker, this is a very political year. We hear a lot of talk about change. You can't turn on the television without hearing talk about change. Let's consider how that change could improve the most complicated of institutions, the Internal Revenue Service, and more importantly, deliver prosperity and return time, return time, to the American taxpayer. That is a stimulus package worthy of everyone's vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (COMPREHENSIVE AMERICAN ENERGY SECURITY AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. It's been a fascinating day, hasn't it? 
   You have the votes to pass this bill, so congratulations. You'll pass it. But the bill is a ghost. It's going over to the Senate. It's dead on arrival. It will not do one thing for producing energy and American jobs for the American people. 
   Now, there is almost no mention in this huge bill that we got at 9:45 last night, almost no mention about new refineries. I think refineries were mentioned one time. 
   Natural gas, I heard my friend from Oklahoma say natural gas is included in this bill. It's mentioned less than a half a dozen times. There is no title for natural gas in this bill. 
   Nuclear energy, it's not here. I can't find it. 
   Now, the polls currently show that faith in Congress, our congressional credibility is at an all-time low. 
   You won an election 2 years ago on the basis of the fact that you're going to get us out of Iraq. You didn't do it. You're going to bring down gas prices. That didn't work. Most ethical Congress ever. I'm afraid not. 
   And now the last thing was we are not going to drop large bills in the middle of the night into this House. We're going to do it the right way. Well, I'm afraid that's been lost as well. 
   Now, why does it matter? 
   Well, we have a subcommittee. We've had multiple hearings on energy over the past 18, 20 months. Mr. Boucher is to be commended for the amount of hearings that he's had on this. But we didn't get to mark this bill up in subcommittee. Not one amendment came from a Republican at any time on this bill. We didn't see this bill in full committee. 
   Now, there are things that we should do urgently; like we should protect our electrical grid in this country, which we're not doing in this bill. There's the urgency. Bring that bill to the House floor without going through subcommittee and full committee. That, the American people would understand. 
   Well, notwithstanding what the majority leader has just told us, Paris Hilton will tell you, this is not rocket surgery. We do need all the above. Unfortunately, this bill does not provide that. I urge voting against this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (STAND UP AND BE COUNTED -- (House of Representatives - September 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Before I came to the United States Congress, in another life, I was a physician, and oftentimes when I was introduced to speak at an engagement back home, the person doing the introductions will say, Do you want to be referred to as Doctor or Congressman? I usually start off with perhaps a little lighthearted humor in that, Well, physicians still enjoy about a 70 to 80 percent approval rating with the American public, and Members of Congress enjoy about a 7 to 8 percent approval rating with the country. So, mother always called me Doctor, and that is what I'd prefer to be called. But it's really a sad commentary on the institution that our credibility is at such a low ebb. 
   Now we just had the gentleman from Tennessee talk about an editorial in the New York Times. Since he brought it up, let me refer attention to the New York Times from yesterday. Reading it on the airplane up here, they referenced the fact that we have a serious problem with the chairman of our Ways and Means Committee and the credibility has been lost for the individual who is head of the largest tax-writing body in the House of Representatives. 
   The Tax Code in this country is complex. No one understands it. People understand how mistakes can be made. But the chairman of that body, at the very least, ought to hold himself above reproach. And yes, maybe one transgression, perhaps two, but transgression after transgression after transgression is more than the American people can tolerate. 
   We are going to debate an energy bill today. But the fact is we are not really going to accomplish anything on energy. Yes, I know they have the votes. They can pass pretty much whatever they want. They can ram it to the floor, like they did last night, 15 minutes before it goes to the Rules Committee, and then here on the floor, as if by magic, today. But this bill is dead on arrival in the Senate. It is going to do nothing to help the American people. 
   Here's the tragedy. Out in the countryside, no one believes that we have the ability to do much of anything. We couldn't talk about border security or immigration reform because we have no credibility. We can't talk about what we are going to do with the economy because we have no credibility. 
   The credibility of this institution was badly damaged prior to the 2006 election, and I grant you it was an election strategy by the other side that worked. Paint the working majority at that time as one that wasn't working, and we will get to take credit for it and we will get to take power. 
   So look at where we are today, 22 1/2 months later. Are we out of Iraq? I don't think so. Are gas prices lower? I don't think so. All of those things were promised during the run-up to the last election. And, yes, they promised to be the most ethical and competent Congress that the country had seen in quite some time. 
   Now I call on the 30 new Members on the majority side who were elected on this platform to stand up. Stand up in your conference and be counted. Now is the time. We have a serious crisis of credibility on one of the major committees in the United States Congress, and we can't get past that point. One individual holds in his hand the power to begin to restore some of the credibility to the institution that we so sorely need. 
   I call on the freshmen Democrats to ask the chairman to step aside, whether temporarily or permanently, but step aside until he solves his own problems so that the institution is not left carrying that weight. I think the institution of the House of Representatives deserves no less than that courtesy at a time when our economy is suffering, our energy prices are high, and certainly the ability of the country to defend the border has been seriously questioned. This is the time. 
   This is the time that the House needs to have maximum credibility to get these issues accomplished and, at the same time, here we are talking about the same things and over and over again. 
   Again, I call on the freshmen Members, stand up to your Speaker, stand up to the powerful committee chairmen. Let's move past this point. You have other capable members on the majority side on the Committee on Ways and Means who can serve, either temporarily or permanently, to serve that body, and let's move past this point. 
   It's time. The American people are waiting on us to do the big work, and we can't do it because we are bound up in these seemingly endless quandaries that we find ourselves in. Let's show the American people that we can lead. Maybe then they will restore some of the credibility to us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (Announcement by the Chairman -- (House of Representatives - July 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chairman, I rise tonight in support of the Barton amendment. I hadn't intended to speak about this, but I was listening over in my office, and I am extremely concerned about the structure of this provision that has been added to the bill. 
   By increasing the percentage of the ``hold-harmless aspect'' the concern has to be about where are those dollars going to come from to pay for those increases? 
   My understanding is that other communities where authorized identified need may now be placed at risk. And yes, that would include my home district in north Texas. That would include the City of Fort Worth, Texas, where there are great numbers of people who, where unfortunately, the rate of acquisition of AIDS is increasing. 
   Madam Chairman, this was a carefully negotiated compromise on our committee, appropriately so. It was an authorizing committee. At best, this activity tonight is authorizing on an appropriations bill. At worst, it is a thinly disguised earmark for the Speaker of the House. I urge my colleagues to vote for the Barton amendment. 
   I yield to the ranking member of the committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - July 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I do have a lot of material to cover in the time that is available. 
   I thought it was appropriate, as we end this legislative day here in the United States House of Representatives, that we talk a little bit about health care, because health care will be one of the central arguments, one of the central themes that consumes this country over the next 16 months as we lead up to the presidential election. Indeed, you are already hearing presidential candidates talk about their various visions for health care. 
   One of the things that concerns me greatly is the issue of the issue of the state of our physician workforce. In my home State of Texas, the Texas Medical Association puts out a periodical every month. In March the title of the magazine they put out was ``Running out of Doctors,'' a great concern of mine. 
   A year and a half ago Alan Greenspan came and talked to a group of us right before he left as Chairman of the Federal Reserve board. And someone asked him about Medicare and about how we are going to pay for Medicare in the future. He acknowledged that it was going to be difficult, but at the appropriate time he felt that Congress would be able to step up to the job of doing what was going to be necessary to pay for Medicare. He paused, and he said, well, what concerns me greatly is will there be anyone there to provide the services that you need? 
   That's what I would like to address this evening. I think if I could, I am going to confine my remarks to the limited time I have to four areas. I want to talk a little bit about medical liability, I want to talk a little bit about the status of the physician workforce in regards to the developing physician, the person who may be in college or high school considering a career in health care, I want to talk about the physician in training, and I want to concentrate greatly on what I call the mature physician, the physician who is in practice, and some of the effects of current governmental policy where we reduce payments to physicians year over year and the pernicious effect that is having on the physician workforce. 
   First, just touching on liable, my home State of Texas had a significant problem with he had some call liability. In 2003, the State legislature passed a medical liability reform based off of a prior California law, the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975, which was passed by California, but we updated it for the 21st Century. 
   Indeed, the law passed by the Texas Legislature in 2003, was based off the California law, that had as its basis caps on noneconomic damages, but in California, that was a fixed $250,000 cap for all noneconomic damages. As you can see from the visual aid, Texas trifurcated the cap. We have a $250,000 cap on physicians for noneconomic damages, $250,000 cap on a hospital for noneconomic damages and a $250,000 cap on a second hospital or nursing home, if one has been involved.     
   Well, this was passed back in 2003. How has the Texas plan fared? The year I first ran for Congress, 2002, we had dropped from 17 insurers down to two. It was almost impossible to get medical liability insurance at any price because of the effects of the legislation passed. There are now 14 insurers back in the State, and most of those have come back in without an increase in premiums. 
   Three years after passage, the Medical Protective Company had a 10 percent rate cut which was their fourth since April of 2005. Texas Medical Liability Trust, my last insurer of record, declared an aggregate cut over the past 4 years of 22 percent. Another company called Advocate MD filed a 19.9 percent rate decrease. And another company called Doctors Company announced a 13 percent rate cut, real numbers that affect real people and affect real access to care. 
   Probably one of the most significant unintended beneficiaries of this legislation that was passed in 2003 in my home State of Texas was the smaller not-for-profit community hospitals. These were hospitals that were self-insured and had to put large amounts of cash up as a cash reserve against a potential lawsuit. What has happened since this law has past is these hospitals have found they have been able to take more of that cash and invest it in capital, invest it in nurses' salaries, exactly the kinds of things you want your smaller, not-for-profit community hospital to be doing in your community. 
   Mr. Speaker, I took the language of the Texas plan and modified it so it would work within the constructs of our language here in the House of Representatives and actually offered this language to the ranking member of our House Budget Committee, who had the bill scored by the Congressional Budget Office. And the Texas plan, as applied to the House of Representatives to the entire 50 States, would have yielded a $3.8 billion savings over 5 years. Now, not a mammoth amount of money in Congress speak; but when you talk about a $2.99999 trillion budget, any savings that you could manage is in fact significant. And this is money that could have gone for a pay-for for many of the other things that we talk about doing for health care in this body. 
   Mr. Speaker, a lot of people ask me: Well, if Texas has solved the problem, so why are we even concerned about it on the national level? One is the savings that was demonstrated by the Congressional Budget Office. 
   Another is this, Mr. Speaker: consider the cost of defensive medicine. 
   A 1996 study, 11 years ago, done by Stanford University revealed that in the Medicare system alone, just Medicare, not Medicaid, not the Federal prison system, but in the Medicare system alone the cost of defensive medicine was approximately $28 billion to $30 billion a year. Ten or 11 years ago it was at that expense, and I submit that that number is significantly higher today if anyone would rework those numbers. 
   Another consideration is young people getting out of school. They look at the cost of professional liability insurance and say, you know what, I am going to stay out of those higher risk specialties because it is just not worth it to me. 
   Now, I do want to draw my colleagues' attention to a bill, H.R. 2583. This bill addresses graduate medical education. It is an enhancement for graduate medical education, and would develop a program that would permit hospitals, hospitals that do not traditionally operate a residency program, the opportunity to start a residency program to help again build physician the workforce of the future. On average, it costs $100,000 a year to train a resident, and that cost for a smaller hospital can actually be an impossible barrier to entry. But because of this bill, that would create a loan fund available to hospitals to create residency programs where none has operated in the past; and it would require full accreditation and be generally focused in rural suburban or inner urban communities. 
   Another bill that I would direct my colleagues' attention to, H.R. 2584, this bill is designed to help medical students and those who have just recently graduated from medical school with a mix of scholarship, loan repayment funds, tax incentives to entice more students into medical school and create incentives for those students and newly minted doctors. The program will have an established repayment plan for students who agree to go into family practice, internal medicine, emergency medicine, general surgery, OB/GYN, and practice in an underserved area. It is a 5-year authorization. It is fairly modest at $5 million a year and would provide additional educational scholarships in exchange for a commitment to serve in a public or private nonprofit health facility determined to have a critical shortage of primary care physicians. 
   Mr. Speaker, in whatever time I have left, I do want to address again the group that I call the ``mature physician,'' and I want to address that from the perspective of the formula that is called the ``sustainable growth rate  formula.'' That is the formula under which Medicare reimburses physicians. 
   Why is that important? Let me show you this. If we look at how Medicare pays for the administration of care in this country, we have a situation where doctors are paid under a different formula from hospitals, from insurance plans, from drug companies, from nursing homes. 
   And look at this graph, Mr. Speaker. What you see is that physicians receive cuts year over year, unless Congress steps in at the last minute and does something, which we did for several years here right after I first got to Congress. But compare that with Medicare advantaged hospitals and nursing homes where every year there is a cost-of-living update, the Medicare economic index, if you will, that adjusts payments upward. But year over year there is a reduction in reimbursement, and the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services for Physicians provides this cut for physicians who take care of the patients. 
   It is not a question of doctors wanting to make more money; it is about a stabilized repayment system for services that have already been rendered. And it is not just affecting doctors; it affects patients. Not a week goes by that I don't get a letter or a fax from some doctor, usually in my home State of Texas, oftentimes in my district but sometimes it is someplace far afield. But they say, You know what? I have just had enough of what Medicare is doing to my reimbursement schedule and I am going to retire early. I am no longer going to see Medicare patients in my practice, or I am going to restrict the procedures that I offer to Medicare patients. 
   In fact, I had a young woman come up to me that I trained with at Parkland Hospital and tell me what Medicare was doing to her wasn't right and, as a consequence, she was not going to be offering a certain set of high-risk procedures to her patients any longer. 
   And the question is, where will those patients go for that treatment? I saw it in the hospital environment before I left practice to come to Congress and, again, I hear it in virtually every town hall that I hold back in my district. Someone will come up to me, either as a question in the formal part of the meeting or afterwards, and say, how come in this country you turn 65 and you have got to change doctors? And the answer is, because the doctor they were seeing found it no longer economically viable to continue to see Medicare patients because this was happening to them, and year over year they weren't able to pay the cost of delivering the care, never mind taking a paycheck home to support their family. 
   Medicare payments to physicians are modified annually under this SGR formula. The process is flawed, it needs to be repealed, because it mandates physician fee cuts that have gone on in recent years be continued indefinitely, and they become quite substantial over time. 
   Now, the quandary that you always hear quoted is that simple repeal of the SGR is cost prohibitive. But we could, Mr. Speaker, consider doing that over time. We could consider setting a date in the future by which the SGR would be repealed and perhaps bring that cost down to an attainable level. 
   The bill that I have recently introduced, H.R. 2585, would repeal the SGR in 2010. Now, in the new physician payment stabilization bill, 2 years from now the SGR formula goes away. But there are incentives provided to physicians in the year 2008 and the year 2009 based on some quality reporting and technology improvements. 
   More importantly, by resetting the baseline of the SGR formula, the CBO estimates that the practical effect of my bill would bring a 1.5 percent update in 2008 and a 1 percent update in 2009, and a complete elimination of the SGR by 2010. The CBO score calculates a savings of $40 billion off the total price tag of an SGR elimination. 
   Again, there are also in addition to essentially what is a Medicare economic index update for 2008, a little less than that for 2009, and then elimination of the formula and a full MEI update starting in 2010, which would be a significant change from where we are now. In addition to that, bonus payments for physicians who are willing to voluntarily do some quality reporting and bonus payments for physicians who are willing to voluntarily participate in some health information technology upgrades, computerization of their practice, if you will. 
   One of the main thrusts of this bill, Mr. Speaker, is to require the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services to look up, to ascertain the top 10 conditions that drive the highest percentage of payments, and then require CMS to adopt reporting measures relating to those conditions. In fact, those have already been developed. We are not going to reinvent the wheel here. The American Medical Association Physician Consortium has already developed those reporting measures that are driving spending so high. 
   Mr. Speaker, the old bank robber Willie Sutton, when he was asked, Why do you rob the bank? He said, Because that's where the money is. Mr. Speaker, let's go where the money is. Let's go to those top 10 things where the greatest amount of money is spent, those top 10 diagnostic codes or top 10 diseases where the major amount of money is spent in Medicare, and it amounts to about 70 percent of the savings in Medicare, because that is where the greatest amount of savings is going to occur. 
   If we can deliver more care in a timely fashion and we can improve outcomes, you are actually going to spend less. And, again, that is the thrust of this bill. That is why you postpone the repeal of the SGR by 2 years, to get that savings that is going to happen by doing things better, quicker, smarter, the same types of things we saw when we began to provide a prescription drug benefit under the part D part of Medicare. Those costs that were originally projected by CBO and the Office of the Management of the Budget of the White House, actually, those scores were way too high. 
   The actual figures for the first year of the operation of the Medicare prescription drug program came in lower. Why did it come in lower? Partly because of competition and partly because the cost-effective thing also turns out to be the right thing to do oftentimes in the practice of medicine. A lot of savings are in fact available in this system if we only again have the courage to do that. 
   Let me just speak briefly about health information technology, because it does receive a lot of attention. Here in the House of Representatives we worked on several bills last year. We will probably have an opportunity to have several bills this year. Indeed, a reform in health information technology is part of the bill that I introduced, H.R. 2585, to repeal the sustainable growth rate formula. 
   But let me just point out a couple of things. I don't know that I was a big believer in electronic medical records when I left the practice of medicine and came to Congress. They are expensive, a big cost for a small practice to set it up. They slow you down. When you are in practice, it adds minutes to each patient; and if you are seeing 30 patients a day and you add 2 minutes to each patient, that is an extra hour. How are you going to be compensated for that extra hour that you spend? 
   Mr. Speaker, this is a picture of the medical records room at Charity Hospital in New Orleans. It was taken in January of 2006, 5 months after Hurricane Katrina hit there. And this had been completely under water, of course, when the city was flooded. When the Corps of Engineers got the water out, this is what was left. And you see a typical medical records room with all of these paper charts. But this black discoloration is not from smoke or soot; that is black mold that has grown on these charts. It is not safe to let anyone go in there and try to retrieve data from those charts because of what has happened with the mold contamination. 
   All of those records are lost, tens of thousands of patients. A patient who might have been waiting for a bone marrow transplant or a kidney transplant, a patient who is in the middle of their cancer therapy, All of that was lost in those records. 
   Mr. Speaker, in January of this year we heard a lot of stories about Walter Reed Hospital, and I went out to Walter Reed to look for myself about what was happening with the treatment of our soldiers who are on medical hold. And Sergeant Blades took me around the complex and showed me the things that had been in all of the newspapers.  And then he said, You know what bugs me even more than anything else. I could live with all of the other stuff, but here is the real problem I have. He was trying to assemble his medical records so he could make his case to the VA about a disability claim he had. 
   He had been in the service for a number of years, he had suffered some injuries during his time in the service, and he wanted to be able to make his case for disability payments. He said he will spend probably 20 to 24 man hours on his medical records making the case, going through it with a yellow highlighter. And then he said, It goes and sits on someone's desk for 2 week's time and then it is lost. And the reason for that is there is not an electronic medical records system that the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense can communicate with each other. So he has to go back and reconstruct the paper trail of his 20 years in the service and document all of the problems that he has had with his injuries over time in order to make his case for a disability claim. 
   And that is what was concerning him more than anything else that day, was that it took so much time to get these things assembled and he was at the mercy of someone misplacing that record off their desk, and he would have to go back to square one. His medical hold would be either extended or denied, and he would have to start all over again with assembling his medical record. He advised his men to make two or three copies of their medical records before they submitted it to the appropriate person in the infirmary. 
   Mr. Speaker, I know our time is about up. I appreciate the indulgence of the time this evening. Again, health care is an important topic. We are going to spend a lot of time on it in the weeks and months to come. And, again, it will be part of the central theme of Presidential elections on both sides of the political spectrum. And to be sure, I will be back here on several occasions talking about some of the things that I think are most important. But when you look at the problem with losing physicians, when you look at the problem with how we treat our Medicare physicians, the problems they have in getting their payment rates straightened out, what happens if you don't take care of that? You lose doctors. Patients don't have the physicians to see. 
   What will Congress do in that event? I don't know. Parliament over in Great Britain decided it was in their best interest to bring physicians in from overseas on visas and give them waivers. Someone else paid for their education and they worked cheap. But we also saw in Scotland over the 4th of July weekend, that didn't turn out to be a good idea.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (ENERGY PRICES AND PRODUCTION -- (House of Representatives - July 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I wanted to come to the floor tonight and I guess continue what has been a theme this evening on both sides of the aisle. The theme is energy. We are hearing a lot about energy as we go home to our districts, and I am no exception. I heard a lot about energy from my constituents, I heard a lot about energy from talk radio, I heard a lot about energy from newspapers back home. 
   I wanted to come to the floor tonight and talk a little bit about an event that I held in my district that dealt with energy more from the consumer angle, just from the basis of the average everyday constituent back in the district. 
   I have people talk to me and ask me, well, what is the real villain here? Where is the real problem here? Is it the oil companies? Is it the speculators? Is it the global demand? Where is the problem? 
   One of the real frustrations from people back home is that it is just very difficult for the average person to go out and increase production on their own. They can't do that. It is very difficult for the average person to do much about energy speculation. It is very difficult for the average person to do much about the global impact on supply and demand. 
   What they can do, what they can modify is their own behavior and reduce their own demand profile, perhaps only a small amount, but you multiply that over the 300 million people in the United States and suddenly you begin to talk about numbers that are in fact meaningful. 
   So the purpose of the event we did last week in the district was to provide constituents with some insights as to how to take some personal proactive steps to reduce energy consumption and, in the process, to save some money off their energy bills. And I was impressed, Mr. Speaker. This was a week ago last Saturday. It was a nice Saturday down in Texas. It hadn't gotten too hot just yet. And that morning, nearly 200 Texans, 200 of my constituents delayed their Saturday morning activities, whether it be mowing the lawn or just spending time with their families, because they were interested in hearing about what was available as far as energy savings. 
   Now, I have done this event for several years and it has grown in popularity year after year. It started out as a relatively small event in one of the hardware stores with some of the off-the-shelf energy efficiency products that were available. We had someone down from the Department of Energy to speak about those things. It was a very, very well attended event for as small as it was. And then the following year we did it on the campus of the university there. It was much more widely attended. And this year, we did it at one of the local high schools. And I am pleased to say that the attendance was larger this year than it was the year before. And each year at this event it becomes more and more important, and attendance increases, because more people feel the need to be smarter about their energy consumption. They want to take some control of this energy aspect, the stranglehold that it has on their lives and they want to start taking control of their energy costs. 
   Higher energy prices. Higher energy prices have a way of exerting a behavioral change. High prices at the pump, high prices with home energy, they have caused a slowdown in the economy. They have caused times to become much more stark, even for areas that are relatively blessed like North Texas with economic times that are not as bad as some other areas of the country. But still, in many homes across my district and indeed many homes across America tonight, these high energy prices really have a stranglehold on our American families. 
   Now, we have heard over and over again tonight. We have heard it from the Democratic side and we have heard it from the Republican side. The lack of congressional action has been underscored many times before, I am going to underscore it again. In the absence of congressional action to increase domestic sources of energy, I want people in my district to know about the tools that they have at their disposal right at their fingertips to help them conserve energy and save money today. This is not something that will happen years in the future. This is money that can be saved today. 
   So that is what we call the energy expo. That is what the energy expo is all about, learning how to save energy, learning how to reduce energy waste, and learning how to save money along the way. 
   First of all, we did have someone come down from the Department of Energy. We invited Leslie Drogin who is from the Office of Efficiency and Renewable Energy within the Department of Energy. She spoke about some of the alternative energy advancements that are occurring throughout the country, and particularly in some of my communities in North Texas. 
   Now, in Texas we are thought of as an oil State, an oil and gas State. Many people are surprised to find out that Texas is the number one State in electrical power generation from wind energy, and we are second in the number of alternative fueling stations. So Texas has been proactive about alternative sources of energy and alternative fuels. 
   Now, Leslie also stressed that setting goals for energy efficiency and working toward them is not always going to be easy, and it does take to some degree a personal commitment. 
   Now, in addition to some of the local and national speakers, I did have a moderated discussion focusing on ways that individuals can squeeze a few more miles out of a gallon and squeeze a few more cooling hours out of that kilowatt hour of electricity in their homes. So the first panel consisted of representatives from AAA Texas and the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers and the Denton County Transportation Authority. 
   We first heard from a gentleman named Patrick O'Reilly of AAA Texas. He discussed many of the different maintenance tips and tricks consumers can use to ensure that their vehicles aren't only efficient but 
   perhaps they are a little more safe as well. 
   Now, the one that everyone talks about and you hear it all the time and I will mention it again is tire pressure. Ensuring that tires are properly inflated can result in a 3 percent fuel economy benefit and equivalent gas savings of up to 12 cents a gallon. Properly inflated tires are safer and they last longer, so you will spend less money on your tires. So, in the long run, it is a real bargain. 
   Regular oil changes. Now, raise your hand if your dad ever told you to change the oil every 3,000 miles and how many of you let that slip a little bit. Well, keeping that oil changed every 3 months or 3,000 miles is the right thing to do. But we also learned that using the right grade of motor oil for the environment is important as well. For example, using a 10W-30 oil in an engine designed to use 5W-30 can lower gas mileage by 1 percent or 2 percent. And this again translates to 4 cents to 8 cents per gallon of gas savings. You add that 8 cents to the 12 cents of tire pressure, and now we are up to 20 cents savings on that gallon of gas. 
   Perhaps the most valuable tip that was reported that morning and one of which I was not completely aware, but changing the air filters regularly, which can increase energy efficiency up to 10 percent and save 41 cents per gallon. So now we have saved 20 cents by a combination of tire pressure and using the right grade of motor oil. Adding another 41 cents a gallon, and we are up to saving 60 cents a gallon of gasoline just with these three simple measures that anyone can do as far as automobile maintenance. 
   We also heard from a gentleman named Clinton Blair who spoke on behalf of the Automobile Alliance, and discussed some of the different concept vehicles and the innovations and technology that we might expect to see now, sooner rather than later. With gas prices being as they are, clearly there is a consumer demand and an impetus for the development of those types of vehicles. And most Americans already know about the hybrid electric vehicles, but that is just one of the many technologies that is going to be available to address both the environmental concerns and the rising fuel prices. 
   Now, several years ago I had to get on a waiting list, but I got on a waiting  list and I purchased a hybrid vehicle. This was back in 2003. It was actually 2004 by the time I took delivery of the vehicle. And my main concern at the time was air quality issues in my area of North Texas. With hot summer sunshine and particulate matter in the air, we have a big problem with ozone, and I wanted to be part of the solution and not part of the problem. So I got in line and paid the extra money for a hybrid vehicle. 
   Well, now that gas prices are up to $4 a gallon, it looks like absolute genius to have done that several years ago. But the reality was, it was the right thing to do from the standpoint of air quality several years ago, and it is the right thing to do today from the standpoint of lowering the Nation's fuel consumption and lowering the amount of oil that has to be imported sometimes from areas of the world that don't particularly like us. And we heard about that extensively during the last hour. 
   But in addition to the hybrid technology, there are some other new technologies on the road today, and many, many more available just over the horizon. An innovation on the road today is the variable cylinder vehicle. Now, those of us who were around in the Arab embargo of the 1970s remember this type of technology was actually available back in the 1970s. I think it was the Cadillac car that came available with a button you could push for either running on all 8 cylinders, running on 6, or running on 4. And the theory was that when you got up to highway speeds and the engine did not need to develop the same amount of power just to simply maintain the speed, you could drop the cylinder usage to 4 from 6. 
   It wasn't particularly efficient and didn't really deliver on the promise. The technology at that time was largely mechanical rather than electronic, so it wasn't a big seller. But that concept is coming back, and now there are variable cylinder vehicles that sometimes run as a 6 cylinder vehicle, sometimes run as a 4 cylinder vehicle. And, again, it presents another option for consumers to save gas. 
   We did hear a lot about new car technology that is just over the horizon, and we hear about it frequently here on the floor of the House, we hear it frequently in the Energy and Commerce Committee, the concept of plug-in hybrids and plug-in cars. 
   That is an interesting development. In fact, just the other day someone was telling me about the fact that some of the hybrid cars that are now in production, the next generation of hybrid cars may very well have a solar panel on the roof. It is a wonderful, insightful idea, the way to charge that battery while the car is sitting in the parking lot, particularly in a State like Texas where you have got a lot of sunshine beating down on that car. And rather than just heating the interior of the car and making it unpleasant when you sit down, maybe you could use that energy to recharge the battery and drive farther on the battery then when you start that car up for the commute home, use less fuel in the process, and obviously have a positive impact on air quality as well.     
   So I was very grateful to hear about that innovation because I've often wondered why it is someone hasn't done that yet when I drive my own hybrid vehicle. 
   As to other concepts, like the hydrogen fuel cells and the new engineering techniques like regenerative braking systems, some of the hybrids already do that. When you step on the brakes, some of the power then goes to the generator, which recharges the battery, but again, these are technologies that just a few years ago were in their infancy but that are now hitting their stride and are coming into their own, the concept of recovering energy that would be otherwise wasted during stop-and-go driving. 
   Now, Mr. Blair also discussed the impact of the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, which were passed as part of this Congress last year. It will be a few years before we see the impact of those. We can argue whether it's better to have those set by Congress or set by consumers in the market. I think the reality is $4-a-gallon gasoline is going to do a lot more as far as lowering the Corporate Average Fuel Economy than any act of Congress could have ever done, but we'll wait and see. 
   That raises an interesting point when people tell us that, if you start tomorrow with increased drilling, you're not going to have that product available to the American consumer for a number of years, maybe as much as 7- to 10-years' time. Yet, last fall, we enacted the increases in the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, recognizing that it was going to be--what?--5 years, 7 years, 10 years before those were fully implemented and were fully functional as far as reducing the number of gallons of gasoline consumed, and oh, by the way, you've also got to age out the older fleet, which is now still consuming gas at the older standard. So, if you want to talk about a process that consumes time when you're anxious to get things done quickly, again, the act of Congress to increase the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards certainly, in my estimation, falls into that category. 
   That really was not the point that Mr. Blair made at the meeting, but it certainly has been my observation over time. 
   So hybrid vehicles and Alternative Fuel Vehicles are available. They are currently more expensive than traditional fuel models, and a consumer has to make that estimation and has to make that choice. It is a little bit difficult not knowing what the future is going to bring. Two years ago, if you looked at the price of gasoline and looked at the cost of a hybrid car or of an Alternative Fuel Vehicle, you might do the math and say, you know, it'll take me 7 to 9 years to recover the investment of the extra cost of this vehicle, and I just don't think it's worth it. Now that the price of a gallon of gasoline has doubled since January of 2007, maybe those mathematics work out more in favor of going ahead and of making the investment in an Alternative Fuel Vehicle or in a hybrid vehicle. 
   Also, as to the economies of scale as newer technologies are coming on line and as more and more of these vehicles are being produced, this does have the tendency of pushing down the overall cost of the production of those vehicles, and subsequently, the cost on the retail end drops as well. 
   All of the auto dealerships that attended the Energy Expo event were local, around in the area--James Wood Chevrolet from Denton, Bill Utter Ford from Denton, and Freeman Toyota from Hurst, Texas, which is just down the road. 
   To an individual, they reported that they could fill all of the orders for hybrid-type vehicles and for ultra-efficient vehicles. They could fill all of the orders and then some. If they had more of these vehicles in stock, they felt comfortable that they could, in fact, sell those vehicles. They have a significant backlog for fuel-efficient vehicle types. In fact, it is almost independent of the sticker price. 
   Another option for Americans, while they're waiting on Congress to act and while they're waiting on auto manufacturers to produce more fuel-efficient cars, trucks and SUVs, is another alternative altogether, one that I like to call rapid transit--the transit system that we have certainly here in Washington, DC. We don't have quite the same demographics. We don't have quite the same population densities back home as we do here in Washington. The fact remains that, with fuel prices as high as they are, more people now are looking towards transit as an option for cutting down a portion of their fuel bills during their commute. 
   Now, in Washington, the Metro's ridership is increasing. In fact, the Washington Times this morning was talking about the Metro's being somewhat constrained in adding more cars because they just simply cannot buy any more electricity during peak times. Well, there's an argument to be made for additional nuclear plants or for additional clean coal plants that are producing more electricity. We don't have the electrical generation capacity to actually run the rapid transit that we want to run even with today's numbers. What are we going to do as we add to that? 
   Still, transit is going to become increasingly important and not nearly as popular in my district, where we like to drive our big pickup trucks and our Dually pickup trucks. It's not nearly  going to be as popular back home as it is here in Washington. The infrastructure, certainly, is not nearly as extensive and is not nearly to the maturational point that it is here in the Washington Metropolitan Area, but I did think it was important for people to hear about what options are going to be available in the future as far as transit is concerned. 
   We did hear along that line from Charles Emery, who is with the Denton County Transportation Authority, and he discussed some of the resources available to constituents living in the Denton County area, who might consider transit as an option as they go about their daily commute or, in some areas of the metroplex, even just traveling around to shops and to shopping venues much closer to home. 
   This was useful information. Again, the culture is a little bit different in North Texas than it is in the metropolitan areas. It's different in the suburban areas than it is in the urban areas. It's different in the rural areas than it is in the suburban areas where it's not really the norm to use transit, but at the same time, this is increasing in importance. 
   The Denton County Transportation Authority, interestingly enough, was formed as a result of authorizing a vote that was taken in the general election in 2002, the same year that I ran for Congress the first time. It was these individuals who had the vision to recognize that at some point, and at that time, it was purely based on congestion and not based on the price of fuel. It was simply to mitigate the problems that they saw down the road with congestion. These individuals had the foresight to go to the voters and to ask for the will of the voter, if you will, on whether or not rapid transit was going to be part of the future of mobility in Denton County. The question was answered with a resounding ``yes,'' and over 70 percent of the electorate that night did vote in favor of starting that transit option in North Texas. 
   Texans love their independence. They love to have the independence provided by having their own vehicles, but with gas up to $4 a gallon, some of the worst congestion in the Nation exists in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. A lot of people are beginning to evaluate that trade-off and are coming down on the side that maybe transit is an option that they need to investigate a little further. 
   In addition, the increase in food prices and other services has, unfortunately, driven some families to the point where they literally have to find an alternative method of transportation because they just simply cannot afford the cost of filling up the family vehicle for that commute to work. They're having to make the choice between filling up the automobile or feeding or sheltering their families. Clearly, transit does provide another option for that. 
   Now, this panel, the first panel that was convened, was educational. I have to compliment them on the fact that they were so thorough. These individuals presented a very professional discourse on energy and money savers. Certainly, I want to thank them for coming. Some of them did have to travel to the area. I want to thank them for coming and for participating in that symposium because I think it was, ultimately, very helpful to the end user--the consumer--and was helpful to, perhaps, devise ways to lower consumption, which will help in the supply-demand equation. 
   We did have a second panel, and the second panel focused on energy conservation in the home. We brought in individuals representing the Texas State Energy Conservation Office, the Home Builders Association, the Home Appliance Manufacturers, and the Home Energy Raters organization. 
   The first on that panel was Mr. Mike Myers, who currently serves as a project manager for the Texas Energy Partnership, a project of the State of Texas. Now, Mr. Myers previously served in the U.S. Department of Energy, in their program for affordable housing, and he has worked for both New York City and for the city of San Antonio. So he talked about some of the personal behaviors that individuals can adopt around the home that translate into savings when paying the utility bills. 
   Now, I was kind of surprised to learn about the cell phone charger. Even if your cell phone is not plugged into the charger, the charger still draws power as long as it's plugged in. Most of that power is going to be converted to heat. We're familiar with the fact that, even if a phone is not plugged into a charger and we unplug the charger from the wall, the charger is a little bit warm, but it's obviously drawing electrical energy to generate that heat, not a particularly useful exercise, especially in Texas in the summer. So, as long as the device is plugged in, it's going to draw energy. If you're not using it to charge the phone, perhaps it ought to be unplugged unless it's actually needed for charging. 
   We heard from several individuals about the importance of air-conditioning duct maintenance. Now, no one in Texas wants to climb in their attics in the summertime, where the heat is probably in excess of 140 degrees, to inspect their air-conditioning equipment and their air-conditioning ducts for leaks, but if there are leaks in the return system, in the system that brings air back to the cooling unit from the household, it pulls that super heated air in from the attic. Again, in a hot Texas summer, an attic's environmental temperature can easily be significantly in excess of 100 degrees. Not only that, you're pulling in dust and mold and, really, things that do not belong within the air-conditioning system. So, in addition to driving energy bills much, much higher, it also poses some health risks, so it is important to have those inspections done, and there are individuals who are capable and who will provide that service. 
   For all air-conditioning systems and for all air infiltration systems, this individual recommended a few simple steps: First off, when building a home, get the right sized unit for the house. Obviously, choose a high-efficiency model. There are many more models of higher efficiency that are available today than there were even just a few years ago. Indeed, some cities have ordinances as to the efficiency rating that can be installed in a house. I know my home city of Lewisville has such a requirement, but do get the right efficiency, the right sized unit for the area that's going to be cooled and the highest efficiency model that is available that will fit the budget, and then make certain that the duct right-of-way and the duct sealing is all done properly for the proper amount of energy conservation. 
   We then heard from another individual who had actually been at one of my previous summits, Mr. Dan Fette of the Home Builders Association. This individual has won numerous awards for not only building homes but for the design of homes, affordable homes, in an energy-efficient fashion. He talked about the ways that a home could be built to be friendlier to the environment and friendlier to the energy consumer's wallet. 
   In Texas, we've got a lot of big homes and a lot of big homes with a lot of big, open spaces that sometimes aren't protected from the elements. Now, Dan specializes in maximizing comfort and in minimizing environmental disruption and energy waste. He utilizes features in the design of the home that include relocating windows that are exposed to direct sunlight. 
   Now, in Texas, when I was a kid, we used to have things that were called cisterns. They collected rainwater off the roof of the house, and it ran through the gutters and into a holding tank into the ground. Now they're called rainwater catchment systems, and they're capable of meeting landscape and irrigation needs. Obviously, they're dependent upon rainfall to fill the reservoir up, but it is a way of holding water that is otherwise going to just simply go into the storm water drainage system, holding onto water to meet the water needs of landscaping, and of course, he recommended using native landscapes that are lower in their water usage. 
   He emphasized the importance of selecting proper plumbing fixtures and appliances that are appropriate for the household. Building energy efficiency into a home can reduce the need for expensive repairs in the future, and it can reduce the need for undergoing the expense of an energy audit in the future, but we'll kind of leave the discussion of energy audits to just a little bit later on.  
   Now, also participating in this panel was Mrs. Casey Hege. She was a representative from General Electric's Appliance Division. She discussed selecting the appliance options that would reward the homeowner with better performance and with lower bills. 
   One of the biggest energy users in anyone's home is of no great surprise--the refrigerator. Older model refrigerators use more energy. In fact, they are one of the largest consumers of energy within the household. So one way to reduce energy consumption, if it fits the family budget, is to replace the old refrigerator with a higher energy-efficient model. 
   Now, one thing that she found was that people who were buying the higher efficiency refrigerators were then coming back and were saying, ``You know what? I'm, in fact, using more energy today than I was before I purchased this high-energy model.'' It took her a while to figure out what was happening. 
   In Texas, a lot of times what we'll do is we'll take that old refrigerator out to the garage, and we'll plug it in, and we'll use it for our excess capacity. Well, if you do that, obviously, you're not getting any energy savings from buying that more efficient, new refrigerator.     
   So always dispose of the old refrigerator, dispose of it properly, dispose of it carefully. Many of these older models contain Freon, and there are going to be municipal requirements that are going to have to be met for their disposal, but obviously you're not going to save money in your home if you buy a new, highly efficient refrigerator and take the old one out to the garage and store whatever beverage you want to store in your garage. Having two refrigerators does ultimately cost more money and cost more energy. 
   Finally, that morning we heard from Mr. Steve Gleaves--he's a home energy auditor and a founding member of the Texas Home Energy Raters Organization--who talked about what to expect with a home energy audit. Now, when to seek an audit and what you can expect to find in your house were the topics of discussion for the home energy audit. He talked about how common it is--and again, this was a recurrent theme that we heard several times that morning--he talked about how common it is for home air-conditioning systems to have leaks in the intake system and around the ventilation grills. 
   Again, he emphasizes the point that one thing you can do from a heating and air-conditioning standpoint to improve energy efficiency in the home is to have those ducts inspected. 
   The other aspect that he talked about, and it was mentioned by one of our previous presenters, select the right size unit for house. A unit that is too big for the area that it is cooling will never come up to maximum efficiency. It's always turning on and off, and the unit will use its maximum of draw, its maximum amount of power when it switches on. So a unit that's switching on and off frequently will never achieve that high energy efficiency rating that was the reason you bought the larger unit in the first place. So it is important to have the architect or builder right size the equipment for the home that's being built. 
   And again, having the ability or having someone investigate the integrity of the air-conditioning ducts so that those leaks which draw in that super-heated attic air into the return vents, so that that doesn't happen under the best of circumstances on a hot day; the best an air conditioner is going be able to achieve is a 20-degree difference between the outside air and the air inside. Well, if you're drawing in to the air-conditioning unit air that's heated to 140 degrees, it's going to be hard to get much measurable cooling off of that. 
   Now, in addition to the panelists, we had a number of local businesses and organizations who had set up displays around the area, and we did have good participation of the constituency that showed up that morning in looking at the displays, Home Depot, Lowe's Hardware, Peterbilt, which has a manufacturing plant in my district in Denton, NewCon Steel, which is located in Denton, the Agrilife Extension Office of Denton County, the Texas State Energy Conservation Office, obviously several automobile dealerships which I previously mentioned, and the Denton County Transportation Authority all had either booths or displays to help consumers understand about energy consumption and provide some information about energy-efficient products and services. 
   Peterbilt, for example, bought two trucks: one was an over-the-road model that we're all familiar with, a type of 18-wheeler that we see on our highways, but it was a diesel hybrid electric and, as a consequence, achieved about a 10 percent savings on the open road. The other model was, again, a diesel-electric hybrid, but this was more of a delivery truck, the type of truck you might see around town, the type of truck that might be in stop-and-go traffic, the type of truck that might be periodically caught in a traffic slowdown caused by congestion. And these vehicles actually achieved about a 25 percent overall savings. 
   So a significant savings in fuel for the company that was operating those vehicles, and I was very grateful to Peterbilt for having those units there. 
   Overall, I think the event was important. I think it was successful. I think each of us making a personal commitment to use energy wisely, to use energy efficiently is--it's not the entire solution to our energy problems, but it certainly can be a part of the solution. And most importantly in my mind, it puts the consumer back in control of some of these parts of the energy equation in which they feel entirely powerless to impact: the supply/demand curve, they feel entirely powerless to impact the globalization that has occurred; if speculators are causing a problem, the end consumer has very little they can do as far as modifying the behavior of the speculator, the futures trader. But they can modify their behavior, and they can become more savvy consumers, and they can become more efficient consumers. 
   So all of these were benefits that I witnessed at the local level, and I think I would classify this event as a successful event. Again, this was the third year that it has happened. It has grown in popularity each year that it has occurred. I have actually had other areas in my district, other than cities in my district, who have inquired about the possibility of having a second event in their locations. And the acceptance by the public and the enthusiasm with which the public approached this was, I found, particularly gratifying, and I don't think there is any question that we will repeat this next year. 
   I wish it wouldn't be necessary, that prices would be down so low that energy was no longer a consideration, but the reality is that's a world to which we probably will not return, at least during my natural lifetime. 
   Now, we ask our constituents to be more savvy consumers, and they will step up and do the job that is asked of them, but while we're asking them to make some of the personal changes in their energy demands, we've heard it again and again on the floor of this House tonight, we heard it a week ago before we went home for the break, the July 4th holiday, we in Congress have to take some action as well. And we, like any other hard problem, like any other complex problem, you need a short-term, mid-term, and long-term approach to how you're going to deal with this. 
   In the short term, we've got to make sure that our energy is traded in markets that are fair and transparent, that the proper oversight exists from the proper regulatory authorities and the proper Federal agencies, to the extent that that hasn't been happening, it has to happen. And I don't think there is anyone in this body that would want to go home and try to justify to their constituents why that is not important. To the extent that there is manipulation in the market, it has to be ferreted out, stopped, corrected. 
   Now, last month, on June 23 in our Committee on Energy and Commerce, our Subcommittee of Oversight and Investigations, we had an investigative hearing. The hearing was titled ``Energy Speculation. Is Greater Regulation Necessary to Stop Price Manipulation?'' 
   Now, it was really an interesting hearing, and there was a lot of information, some information that I was not aware of prior to the hearing. Some  information that, yeah, we've all heard a lot for a long time. But I think one of the things that became very apparent during that hearing is that the scope and the magnitude of the number of dollars that are being invested in the energy futures markets is greater today than at any time in country's history. And that even if the motives are pure, it is just the sheer volume of dollars that are being invested that is driving the price of these futures contracts higher and higher, and that obviously impacts the cost of a barrel of crude oil. And it is driving the market much higher than you would see just based on the cost of--the marginal cost of production and certainly more than would be based on simply factors mediated by supply and demand. 
   Now, the shift into the futures market and the shift into oil speculation by institutional investors has been called the financialization of oil prices. Today, over 70 percent of the participants willing to buy and sell contracts for the West Texas intermediate crude on the New York Mercantile Exchange are speculators, and they're not participants looking to hedge changes in the price of oil before they take the physical delivery of the product. And often times these purchases on these contracts are made with what is called a margin, sometimes it's only pennies on the dollar, 5 percent down, and you own the futures contract until the time of delivery, but oh, by the way, you never intended to take delivery because you're going to sell the contract to someone else who will pay more money for it. Take your cash and run before you get to the end of that. 
   Now, there was a lot of discussion about some of the noncommercial traders who hold contracts only for a very short period of time. They don't have a place to store the product if they were to have to exercise the contract. And instead, they're simply riding that increase wave as it goes up to derive profit from the financial instrument itself, not from the actual product that was pumped out of the ground and put into a barrel and to be sold on the open market. 
   So we did hear from the Commissioner of the Commodities Future Trading Commission, Mr. Walter Lukken. That body is responsible for the oversight over the New York Mercantile Exchange, the NYMEX, and we heard from many of the participants how we could--well, the question that was asked of Mr. Lukken by myself is we see what some of the problems are here. What tools do you need that you don't have today, what tools do you need from Congress, what legislative activity do you need from Congress to stop this practice, to get your arms around this and to be more along the lines of a supply-demand market, not a frenzied financial futures trading market. 
   Certainly some of the advice we got was perhaps the margin investment needs to be increased. Five percent may be too low. Maybe it needs to be 30 percent, 35 percent. Some people even suggested 50 percent. I'm not an expert in petroleum financial futures, but clearly 5 percent as a margin does seem low to me, and I would certainly be willing to hear the discussion of should these margins be higher. 
   What about the person who buys the futures contract and never intends to take delivery? And we're not talking about an airline who's hedging against higher prices by speculating and buying on the market and could take delivery of that product if they were required to do so. We're talking about people who have no way. There is no storage tank anywhere near them that would allow them to put this oil in a tank and take delivery of the product. 
   So clearly, they are only dealing in the financial instrument. Again, they have no interest in the actual commodity that's being traded. 
   So could the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, could it increase margin requirements? Could it put in place a requirement that at least in a certain percentage of that futures contract there must be a place to store it if it were actually delivered to the person who had purchased that contract? 
   Now, Commissioner Lukken answered the question that the Commodities Futures Trading Commission does currently have the authority to increase margin requirements and add position limits. So they have them, but they're only to be used under emergency conditions. As I pointed out to Commissioner Lukken, just in the month of May we had three airlines go bankrupt in a weekend. We had a day where the price of crude rose $11 a barrel in one trading day. We had the Speaker of the House talking about pulling oil out of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Are we not in an emergency situation already? What other evidence do you need of an emergency to invoke these emergency powers that would allow you to rein in some of the--if there is cost that's being driven by speculation in the financial market, what other evidence do you need? 
   If you have the power to do it in an emergency situation, I submit you don't need another study. I submit you don't need another law. Go ahead and take the activity which you are empowered to do by virtue of the fact that the Federal agency has the ability under emergency conditions to exercise those powers, go ahead and do it and we will deal with the studies, we will deal with the cumulative effects afterwards. But the situation is so dire at this point, it's so important at this point that I think you ought to do it. 
   Now, Congress was poised to take some action on that to perhaps make it a little more authoritative that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission would in fact be required to do that, but we kind of fell short of that. And Thursday right before we all left for the week of the July 4th break, we passed a bill that was a sense of Congress, a sense of Congress telling the Commodities Futures Trading Commission that maybe you ought to look at exercising your emergency powers. I liken this to sending a ``get well'' card to the American energy consumer. We really didn't do anything. It made us feel better because, by golly, we passed a bill and we told the Commodities Futures Trading Commission what they need to do their job. 
   Well, the reality is they knew they need to do their job. They were told that in the committee hearing. I can't imagine why they haven't taken those steps already, but I certainly don't think that a sense of Congress resolution passed by this Congress 2 weeks ago was really going to impact them much one way or the other.     
   Now, that's the short term. That's the short term to deal with some of the aspects of financial trading or futures trading. 
   What about the intermediate steps? We heard during that panel that some people believe there's a supply-demand problem today. Others say it's being overblown and it's really the futures market that is the problem; the supply-demand problem does not exist to the level at which it should drive the prices as high as we have seen them. 
   I don't know who's correct on that, but to a person throughout several panels that day, we heard over and over again, by the year 2015, demand is going to so vastly outstrip supply that we will be in serious trouble, serious trouble, not that we're not in serious trouble, but we'll be in real serious trouble by 2015 if we do not take the steps necessary to increase production to meet those increased demand requirements. 
   Now, we have heard it again tonight from both sides of the aisle. There are different approaches and different thoughts about it, and we're not talking about drawing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. That's a very short-term solution, if indeed it's a solution at all, and we've heard some discussion as to the wisdom of that particular exercise, but things like drilling in the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge, things like drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf, off the east coast, off the west coast, development of the oil shale in the inner mountain west. 
   Last December, on our so-called energy bill that really didn't have any energy in it, in our so-called energy bill last December, we prohibited recovering oil from Canada in the Alberta tar sands because we're worried about the effect of something down the road. Well, for goodness sake, Canada is probably our largest supplier of foreign oil. Here is a readily available source where they could increase their production, but we don't want any part of that because we don't know what that's going to do to our carbon footprint down the road.  
   Well, forget about down the road. The time is here and now that we need to get that increased production. So this so-called energy bill that we passed last December, in addition to banning the incandescent bulb, we also banned a type of petroleum from our neighbor to the north, Canada, which could result in an immediate increase in the amount of crude oil available to our markets here. So we really did ourselves double harm during that exercise, but nevertheless, what's past is past. Let's get beyond that point. 
   We have to look at where we're going to get the increased supply that demand is going to require by the year 2015, 7 years away. We hear it talked about on the presidential trail. Well, you're talking about drilling in ANWR; you're talking about drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf; you're talking about deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. That product is 7 years away. Well, yeah, that's right, it's 7 years away, and if we don't start today, guess where we're going to be in 7 years. We're going to be in tall grass because we haven't done what is necessary to affect that increased supply. 
   And we all know the demand is coming. We all hear it every day, China and India and all of the other components of the global economy that are drawing energy into their economies while we literally fiddle as Rome burns here in the United States. 
   It is time for us to get past that point, get on with the development of new supply. If it takes 7 years, that's about the timeline we've got, and if we don't start this year, we're going to be a year later than we should be, or we're going to be 2 years later than we should be. 
   It really begs the question: When is this Congress going to wake up and understand the importance, the dire importance of that day when demand vastly outstrips supply in 2015? 
   Now, that issue is pretty clear-cut to me, and I think it's pretty clear-cut to most Americans. I think any polling you do on that subject would show that most Americans are in tune with the fact that they understand that allowing the production of American energy within America's borders is important for our national security, it's important for the future and the sustainability of our economy. 
   What about the long term? What about some of things you have heard tonight on the development of the techniques for cellulosic ethanol? It will be a wonderful day when we get there, but we're not there yet, and we cannot let our enthusiasm for the technology get ahead of our ability to deliver that technology. For the foreseeable future, for the 7- to 15-year time frame, our energy needs are going to be met by petroleum-based products: natural gas, oil, coal. There's literally no other way around it without simply cratering the American economy. 
   And reality is, do we do anyone any good here in this country or around the world if we allow our economy to languish, if we allow our economy to falter, because we do not have the institutional courage to accept the fact that we're not quite ready to go on to all alternative types of energy? I wish we'd been building nuclear power plants for the last 10 years but we weren't. We should now because nuclear can provide that base load of electricity that you need. 
   Remember, Texas is the number one wind producing State in the Nation. That's a great thing for Texas. We're going to get to sell a lot of power, and it's power that comes from the wind. How cheap is that? But the reality is that even in West Texas, where the wind seems to blow incessantly, there are days when the wind doesn't blow. There are hours in the day when the wind blows less ferociously than other hours. And typically, those days that the wind doesn't blow or those hours when the wind production is diminished is summertime, late in the afternoon. But when is the number one electricity demand time in Texas because of air conditioning? It's summertime; it's late in the afternoon. So you can't depend on wind energy to deliver that constant load of electricity that's needed to keep the grid alive. You need something to deliver the base load. 
   Now, natural gas fills the bill for a lot of Texas right now. Natural gas electrical generation plants, so-called peaking plants, are present in my district. I've visited them. I think they provide a wonderful backstop to some of our energy requirements during the summertime in Texas, and I'm grateful that we have them. But many of these plants are older. They need to be refurbished. They're not nearly as efficient. We're not allowed to build anymore coal plants. That's off the table. 
   So where are the nuclear plants? And I ask my friends on the other side, when are we going to be serious about what we do with the development of nuclear in this country to allow that production, that base production of electricity? And yeah, we might be able to get over and above that from wind, we might be able to get over and above that from solar, but those sources of energy are not dependable enough. And we don't right now have the technology for the proper storage of electricity from those technologies that we're going to depend on something to provide that base load of electricity that we need to fire up the grid, certainly in the State of Texas and I suspect in other parts of the country as well. 
   You know, this is a situation where I think we've heard it eloquently from both sides of the aisle tonight. We need all hands on deck. We need all possible technologies that are available, we need them to be developed. We need them to be in the process of being developed. We need them to come online quickly. All hands on deck. And yet a lot of times, this Congress behaves like it's every man for himself. And the American people don't get that. And believe me, I heard that over and over and over again when I was home in the district this last week. 
   Now, growing and strong economies are better prepared to mitigate some of the effects of disease, hunger, natural disasters, but if we hurt our economy, if we devastate our economy by some of the policies that this Congress has pursued in the last 18 months, our ability to deal with those problems has become woefully constricted. And who's going to suffer? Who's going to suffer? It's going to be the American middle class, the lower middle class, America working poor are going to suffer disproportionately because of the lack of preparedness for dealing with those effects on our economy. This Congress has the responsibility to create the right type of environment to facilitate the right type of growth in the energy sector. 
   Now, I'm going to borrow a poster from some of the previous speakers. I had a copy of today's Politico that I was going to read a paragraph or two from. We've all heard this over and over again, how the cost of energy has risen since January of 2001, but if you really look at that line, if you look at that line on what's happened with energy prices, what you see is, yeah, there's some bumps and some ups and downs and a general upward tendency of that trend line. You see a big peak for Katrina, see a drop-off after the recovery from Katrina when the refineries came back online much more quickly than anyone anticipated. You see some peaks and valleys for the summer driving season. 
   But what really stands out when you look at those graphs is how the cost of energy has significantly risen since December of 2006, January of 2007. If you look at the number of futures contracts that have been sold, and yes, there are more dollars going into those future contracts today than in almost anytime in the Nation's past, when you look at how the numbers of futures contracts and when you look at the dollars invested in futures contracts, yeah, there's been a general trend line that goes upward from 2000 until about December of 2006, and then it goes straight up. 
   Well, quoting from Politico, one of the magazines that we all get in our offices up here in Washington, D.C., there's an article on the front page that's entitled: ``New Boogeymen: Oil Speculators,'' and it has a picture of the Speaker of the House giving a talk and a quote here from the Speaker of the House. `` `Oil speculators are making money by betting against the American consumers at the pump,' House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said before the Independence Day recess.'' 
   Well, wait a minute, let's go back to this. The price of crude, the price of gasoline, gradually drifting upward, but it really takes a spike upward December of 2006, January of 2007. The number of futures contracts really  takes a spike up December of 2006, January of 2007. The number of dollars invested in the futures market really takes a spike up December of 2006, January of 2007. 
   Well, what happened between December of 2006 and January of 2007? Well, the 109th Congress ended and the 110th Congress started. So here we had a quote from our Speaker today: ``Oil speculators are making money by betting against the American consumers at the pump.'' 
   Well, is that really the case? Maybe it is the speculators betting on Congress to continue to make dumb decisions about the energy policy in this country. And it looks like they started that about December of 2006 and January of 2007, and guess what. They bet right and they were rewarded. 
   So, until we do something that sends a signal to those speculators that Congress is through making the dumb decisions, the dumb decisions that it has been making in the past 18 months and is now going to make smart decisions for the American public and the American economy, we're likely not going to see that growth curve go anywhere but up. 
   So it is time. And I call on my friends on my side of the aisle and the other side of the aisle, we've got to approach this problem sensibly. We just cannot simply be blaming the current bogeyman du jour. We've got to face the fact that it's our policies, starting in about January of 2007, that have driven this market through the roof and, as a consequence, has damaged the purchasing power of the American consuming public. 
   And just going a little further into the article, a point I made a few minutes ago, ``Before legislators left town, the House overwhelmingly approved legislation that would require a Federal regulatory agency to employ its rarely used emergency powers to crack down on any ``excessive'' speculation in domestic commodity markets.'' Again, that power already existed. I don't know why Commissioner Lukken did not equate that with the emergency with all of the signs and symptoms he had around him of an emergency in the American energy market. 
   Congress passed--not meaningful legislation last week. We sent a ``get well'' card to the American consuming public and hoped that someone wasn't paying attention and would perhaps mistake our activities a week ago Thursday for something meaningful. I somehow doubt that that occurred. 
   Let me finish up, Mr. Speaker. And I want to read a letter that was printed in the Dallas Morning News on July 4, 2008, ``Oil Independence Day''--and again, this did run on Independence Day in the Dallas Morning News. ``Tired of unfair laws and unreasonable taxes, American colonists proclaimed freedom. As we celebrate liberty today, it seems ironic that our country has evolved from declaring independence from foreign oppression to now dependence on oppression from foreign oil. In fact, a slow rebellion against reliance on foreign oil began when OPEC left Americans sitting in lines to buy gasoline from stations with dry tanks in the 1970s. Today the price stands at $4 a gallon for gasoline, and it shows up in everything from the food we eat and clothes we wear to the vacations we can no longer afford to take. 
   ``We've proposed 15 ways to cut the cost of energy for working American families by giving them access to American energy, the American energy that they want and need. The problem is that the House Democratic leadership keeps blocking that legislation. There is no better time than America's Independence Day for Congress to stop arguing about the problem and to start fixing it.'' 
   Respectfully submitted, Joe Barton, R-Arlington, Michael Burgess, R-Lewisville. 
   It is time that we can get past what was previously described as a bumper-sticker mentality and that we get to work about solving the serious problems that face the American consumers. 
   Mr. Speaker, you've been very generous with the time tonight. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Before he leaves, I want to thank Chairman Dingell for his willingness to work with the minority side on this. We had a lot of give-and-take, both at the staff level and certainly at the subcommittee level and the full committee level, and for that I am grateful. 
   I think this is a good piece of legislation, and I think it was improved by the work of the staff, both on the majority and the minority side, and I think it was improved by the committee process as we worked this bill through committee. 
   I am pleased to support H.R. 2900, and this bill, of course, will improve the drug and medical device safety approval by the FDA. 
   Over the past several weeks, members of the Energy and Commerce Committee, both Republican and Democrat, have come together to hammer out a bill that will ensure that the American people can rely on the decisions made by the Food and Drug Administration, that their drugs are safe, and that regulatory requirements don't overly infringe on innovation or sound clinical practice of medicine. 
   H.R. 2900 will achieve several goals, such as providing additional resources to the Food and Drug Administration to improve premarket drug and device approval, create new postmarket surveillance authorities, enhance clinical trial transparency and data mining, and ensure the adequacy of pediatric studies for drugs and devices. 
   I would like to thank, again, Chairman Dingell and Chairman PALLONE for working with our Republican staff to improve this legislation before we convened the markup, and of course during the process of the markup, again, both at the subcommittee and at the full committee level. 
   I'm pleased that we were able to modify the Direct to Consumer Advertising provision to protect this bill from a constitutional challenge, Mr. Speaker, and in a manner relying on the existing Food and Drug Administration regulatory standards. 
   In regard to pediatric exclusivity, the committee was able to find a workable standard as opposed to the original proposal that would have required the Food and Drug Administration accountants to post a lot of overtime in their jobs. 
   I'm also pleased with regard to one of my concerns about how the new postmarket surveillance regime would impact the independent practice of medicine. I'm pleased that Mr. Waxman, Mr. Pallone and DINGELL and their staffs worked with me to improve the language relating to the restrictions on distribution and use pursuant to elements of a drug's risk evaluation and mitigation strategy. Certainly, Mr. Speaker, it was not the intent, or I did not feel it was the intent of our legislation to be circumventing clinical judgment of trained and experienced practitioners. The original language threatened clinical decision making that is both lawful and based on scientific evidence and sound medical opinion, but I'm pleased that it has been tempered by the concerns that I raised to the above-mentioned gentlemen. 
   One issue that I hope we will continue to work on as this bill moves toward conference committee relates to the provision on conflicts of interest. 
   The Food and Drug Administration advisory panel serves a vital science function when it comes to the approval of drugs and devices.     
   I believe that we should strive to weed out any conflicts of interest for those that serve on these panels. 
   But in reality, Mr. Speaker, that is easier said than done. The standard established in this bill, limiting panels to one waiver for a conflict of interest, could severely impair the Food and Drug Administration's advisory panel process, especially for panels convened to review drugs or devices targeted at very small patient populations, such as those with very rare diseases. For drugs or devices that would fall into these categories, it can be extremely difficult to find sound scientific experts. This irrational standard will only make it harder to perform that function. Moving forward, I hope we can find and strike the acceptable balance. 
   It has already been shown that our collaboration on this endeavor has produced better legislation. I hope we continue that as the process moves forward. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Number one, my understanding is as we took this bill through the subcommittee and committee that we accepted legislative language on an amendment that would provide for a reverse trigger so that if the gentleman and other appropriators want to provide more money for the evaluation of new drugs and devices, the actual contribution from the user fees will decrease. After all, it was a Democratic Congress in 1992 that began the first Prescription Drug User Fee Act, and the reason for that legislation was because it simply took too long to get drugs and devices through the regulatory maze. And as a consequence, practicing physicians such as myself were denied access to life-saving medications for their patients. So the Democrats in the early 1990s improved the process by adding the prescription drug user fees, but we would all be happy with the appropriators if they would step up to the plate and appropriate the correct amount of money. 
   Additionally, let me just point out that consumer groups and patient groups actually are going to be involved in the negotiations for the next prescription drug user fee authorization. That is language that was brought to us, I don't remember by which side, but it was an amendment that was accepted by the full committee. So, Mr. Speaker, although there are concerns expressed by the gentleman who just spoke, the reality is many of those things were actually addressed through the committee and subcommittee process. 
   I will speak a little further on the conflicts issue as I do my closing remarks on this bill, but Mr. Waxman so eloquently spoke about how unfortunate it was we stripped out an Institute of Medicine recommendation in his previous remarks. The reality is that the Institute of Medicine recommended that waivers be available for up to 40 percent of FDA panels. Those are the individuals who are the exerts and who understand what these compounds can and cannot do. 
   Mr. Speaker, I recognized throughout the committee process that I had a responsibility as the only member on the committee on either side who had ever picked up a pen and written a prescription for a patient, who had ever sat down face to face with a patient and talked about benefits and potential risks from medications, and who had ever talked to a patient about the cost of their medication. 
   I think this legislation was well crafted and well worked up between both sides as we went through the committee process. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time. 
   Again, Mr. Speaker, I want to point out, Mr. Waxman in his remarks discussed the Institute of Medicine study, and in fact, when we talked about the issue that's still the unresolved issue of the conflict-of-interest waivers, the Institute of Medicine itself recommended that the Food and Drug Administration advisory panels, those panels that are convened to advise the Food and Drug Administration on the acceptance or rejection of new drugs and new devices, that that panel could be comprised of up to 40 percent of individuals for whom a conflict-of-interest waiver was obtained. 
   The current legislation has language in it that will restrict that waiver to one such individual, and as we've already heard from the other side, even that one conflict waiver is too much for some people to tolerate. But the reality, if the FDA is allowed to issue only one waiver per panel meeting, they will find themselves seeking the guidance of fellows that have just  passed their boards and are beginning their practice of medicine. The drafters of the code of Federal regulations did not intend that only the most recent graduates of a fellowship program or residency program be considered the so-called expert. 
   At present, medical societies find restrictions on the FDA panel nominees increasingly difficult due to a number of criteria that must be met in addition to considerations for the conflicts of interest. 
   The Food and Drug Administration panels must have geographic, ethnic and gender diversity. We've already heard discussion from the other side of how they're concerned about aggravating ethnic disparities. Here's another place where we could perhaps reverse that trend. 
   For clinical representation, panel members on those Food and Drug Administration advisory panels, panel members should be practicing physicians and, in fact, should have practiced for many years. They should have accumulated a body of experience. They should have knowledge of the conduct of clinical trials. They should have knowledge of statistics. 
   They should have intricate knowledge of the specific anatomy if they're on a device panel. They may need to know about the biomechanical forces imposed on the anatomy if a device is implanted or the cellular biology to determine wear and tear on the devices and knowledge of the American Society for Testing and Materials or international standards organizations. Members may also need to know about the packaging and the effects of radiation on many of the device components. 
   For some panels, such as on March 29 of this year, the Cellular Tissue and Gene Therapies Advisory Committee meeting to provide guidance to the Food and Drug Administration on biological license applications, such as the medicine that might be used for treatment of men with asymptomatic metastatic hormone refractory prostate cancer; these panels must have a specific knowledge base that far exceeds that of a practicing physician. 
   And indeed, I heard from other individuals where the universe of patients may be quite small for patients who have a certain type of brain malignancy. The universe of patients may be only 1,000 or 1,500. 
   The people that develop the drugs are of necessity going to be people who have been employed by those industries that were developing the drugs. Why exclude them from the panel? Why craft a law where the only people in the room are, by law, going to be people who have no knowledge of the intricacy of the specific disease being treated or no knowledge of the surgical procedures required to implant those medical devices? Why restrict ourselves in that way? 
   We just heard eloquent testimony from the gentlewoman from Arizona talking about the devices and those medications and treatments that are just over the horizon to us right now that we can't imagine, we can't envision. Why restrict those Food and Drug Administration advisory panels to one conflict-of-interest waiver? 
   Mr. Speaker, I will submit being in public service can be expensive, it can be time-consuming, and it can be embarrassing. Why make it harder for these individuals to participate in these panels? Frankly, I do not understand that. I hope we will continue to work on that process as we get to the conference activity on this bill. I'm looking forward to those discussions. 
   But in reality, the bill that is before us today is, in fact, a good bill. The committee staff on both sides did great work as far as getting language that would be acceptable to both sides, and we were not an easy audience to please on many occasions through the debate on that bill. 
   But Mr. Speaker, I do rise in support of the bill. I do think it is worthy of the House's consideration and passage. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (AMERICAN HEALTH CARE SYSTEM -- (House of Representatives - November 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the Speaker. The hour is late, the time is short. I do want to talk a little bit about health care this evening. Maybe, Mr. Speaker, in order to clear the air from the last 40 minutes, let's start off with a Bible verse. Let's start off reading from the Old Testament from the book of Habakkuk, Chapter 2. ``I will stand upon my watch, and I will set me upon the tower, and I will watch to see what he will say to me, and what I shall answer. And the Lord answered, Write the vision, make it plain upon tables, that he may run that readeth it. For the vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the end it shall speak and not lie. Wait for  it, because it will surely come. It will not tarry.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, I think those are important words. We are going to talk a little bit about the vision for health care, the future of health care in America. Sometimes we will have to wait for it, but it will come. It's a universal problem in this country. Some people think it has a universal solution; others disagree with that. But those two philosophies of health care, that that can be solved by the government or that that is better solved by individuals, those two competing philosophies are really going to be played out front and center over the next 18 to 24 months, both in this Congress and on the national stage in Presidential elections. 
   I may be oversimplifying the issue a little bit, but it underscores the basic arrangements. We sometimes appear to discuss health care only in the realm of insurance, government systems, third-party systems. In fact, Mr. Speaker, if you recall back in 1993, when the attempt was made with the Clinton health care plan, a lot of us who worked in health care at the time were perplexed, we were concerned because at the time the plan seemed to be less about health care and more about the transactions involving health care, that is, more about insurance than actual health care. 
   You know, back not too terribly long ago health care meant you called your doctor, you saw your doctor, you paid your doctor on the spot. Now, we have this convoluted system of third-party payers, government payers, private employee and self-pay. It's a complicated plan. It works. Hardly can be described as efficient. But it does work. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have got to ask ourselves: Is our goal in reforming health care, is our goal indeed in transforming health care to protect our patients or are we here to protect that third-party system of payment? Is our goal to provide Americans with a reasonable way to obtain health care, a reasonable way to communicate with their physician, with their doctor, with their nurse? 
   We really need to proceed carefully because the consequences of any poor choices we make over these next 18 to 24 months, the consequences of those poor choices will reverberate for decades. Not just in our lifetime, but in our children's lifetimes. 
   Mr. Speaker, I often stress that the fundamental unit of production of this great and grand American medical machine, the fundamental unit of production is the interaction that takes place between the doctor and the patient in the treatment room. It is that fundamental unit of production which we must protect, we must preserve, we must defend. Indeed, anything we do to try to transform or reform the health care system in this country, first off, we need to ask: Is it going to bring value to that fundamental unit of production of the American health care machine? 
   The test before us is do we protect people or do we protect the special interest groups. Do we protect big government or do we protect individuals? Do we believe in the supremacy of the State or do we believe in the sanctity of the individual? An educated consumer makes for a better health care system. We need to make health care reform about patients. 
   Let me just spend a little time talking about what are some of the predominant plans that we hear talked about, some of those placed forward by the Presidential candidates, something that we hear talked about on the other side of the aisle here in this House. It's often referred to as a single-payer system or universal health care coverage. It's got a nice ring to it. It's almost seductive. Why shouldn't the world's strongest and best economy, the world's strongest and best health care system provide free health care to all? Well, perhaps the words of P.J. O'Rourke penned back in 1993 in the Liberty Manifesto, when he stated, If you think health care is expensive now, wait and see what it costs when it's free. 
   Mr. Speaker, the American health care system has no shortage of critics at home or abroad. But, Mr. Speaker, it is the American health care system that stands at the forefront of innovation, the forefront of new technology. These are precisely the types of systemwide changes that are going to be necessary to efficiently and effectively provide care for Americans in the future. There's no way we can pay for all the care we are going to need to buy if we rely entirely on today's systems and solutions. There have to be new systems and solutions developed for the future, and they will deliver on that promise. The price will come down, but only if we give the system the freedom to act and develop those measures. 
   Now, the New York Times, not something that I normally read, but just a little over a year ago the New York Times, renowned for its liberal leanings, published October 5, 2006, an article by Tyler Cowan, who wrote at the time, ``When it comes to medical innovation, the United States is the world's leader.'' Continuing to quote, ``In the past 10 years, for instance, 12 Nobel prizes in medicine have gone to American-born scientists working in the United States, three have gone to foreign-born scientists working in the United States, and seven have gone to researchers outside of this country.'' He goes on to point out that five of the six most important medical innovations of the past 25 years have been developed within and because of the American system. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, comparisons with other countries may be useful, but it is important to remember that the American system is always reinventing itself and it's always seeking improvement. It is precisely because of the tension inherent in this hybrid public-private system that creates that tension and creates that impetus for change. A system that is completely and fully funded by a payroll tax or some other policy has no reason to seek improvement. Its funding and its funding stream is going to be reliable and predictable, occurring day after day. There's no reason to try to improve a system like that. It's always in complete balance, complete equilibrium, and faces stagnation. But if there does become a need in such a system to balance payments or control costs, where is that going to come from? We have already seen from our experience within our own Medicare system that is going to come at the expense of the provider. It always has, it always will.     
   The difficulties faced by providers within the Medicare system on an ongoing basis are truly staggering. 
   Mr. Speaker, the fact is the United States is not Europe. American patients are accustomed to wide choices when it comes to hospitals, physicians and pharmaceuticals. Because our experience is unique and because our experience is different from other countries, this difference should be acknowledged and embraced, maybe even celebrated. But certainly when reform, either public or private, is discussed in this country, we need to be cognizant of that difference. 
   That is one of the many reasons why a universal health care system, or a single payer system, translate that to ``the government,'' to me seems almost inadvisable, and certainly doesn't seem sustainable over time as an option. So let's think about some of the principles that really should be involved when we talk about changes and improvements to our health care system. 
   Three principles that I focus on, and I think really form the crux of the basis of all activities regarding health care reform or transformation of the health care system, are affordability, accountability and advancements. Three things fairly easy to remember, almost an iteration when you put them right together. 
   Under affordability, one of the things I think we oftentimes forget is what does it really cost to deliver the care? How do we assign those costs? How do we allocate those costs? The pricing for health care services really ought to be based on what is indicated by the market. But that isn't always the case. Oftentimes it is what is assumed by administrators, and consumers and even physicians are completely insulated, completely anesthetized as to what the care costs or what it costs to deliver the care. 
   Now, an article or an op-ed from the Wall Street Journal earlier this year by Robert Swerlick, a dermatologist from Emory University, the title of his column was ``Our Soviet Health System.'' He laments the difficulty in finding a pediatric endocrinologist, but in turn it seems so easy to find a veterinarian who specializes in orthopedics for his Labrador Retriever. So he can't  find a doctor for his child, but he has no trouble finding one for his canine acquaintance. 
   Now, the reason for that is the administrative pricing system that really is dictated by our Medicare system. And I think Dr. Swerlick really hits the nail on the head. He says, ``The roots of this problem lie in the use of an administrative pricing structure in medicine. The way prices are set in health care already distort the appropriate allocation of efforts and resources in health care today. Unfortunately,'' he goes on to say, ``many of the suggested reforms in our health care system, including various plans for universal care or universal insurance or a single-payer system that various policymakers espouse, rest on the same unsound foundations and will produce more of the same.'' 
   He goes on to say, ``The essential problem is this: The pricing of medical care in this country is either directly or indirectly dictated by Medicare.'' We have a system of Federal price controls in medicine in this country. 
   Again, continuing to quote, ``Rather than independently calculate prices, private insurers in this country almost universally use Medicare prices as a framework to negotiate payments, generally setting payments for services as a percentage of the Medicare fee schedule.'' 
   This is an extremely important point, Mr. Speaker, and one that I don't think Members of this body truly grasp. It is so important, we are going to revisit it again in a minute when we talk about Medicare pricing and what is happening in the physician realm. But remember that, because that is an extremely important point. 
   Medicare administrators set the prices. Private insurance companies in this country tend to follow suit. So when you say we have got a market-based economy in health care, really nothing could be further from the truth. 
   ``And,'' as Dr. Swerlick goes on to say, ``unlike prices set on market conditions, the errors created are not self-correcting. Markets may not get the prices exactly correct all of the time, but they are capable of self-correction, a capacity that has yet to be demonstrated by administrative pricing.'' 
   Again, he goes on to associate this with the system that was in place in the old Soviet Union, and in fact correctly relates some of the problems in the old Soviet economy to the reason the old Soviet Union is not with us any longer. So we really need to pay careful attention to that. 
   Transparency, I think that is something that we talk about a lot, but we don't spend nearly the time focusing on the issue as we should. Transparency between pricing for physicians and hospitals is essential. We want to go to a system where there is more consumer-directed health care, where consumers are more informed. But in order for consumers to be informed, they have to have the ability to go and get the data. 
   Right now, the opacity built into the pricing structure between physicians and hospitals is significant, and, as a consequence, it becomes very, very difficult for the patient, the health care consumer, to be able to make those determinations. 
   The other aspect that enters into it, of course, is the issue of physician quality. Sometimes that is an intangible. Sometimes that is something that is difficult to know just from visiting a Web site or checking data that may be available, and that may be the word of mouth type of information that is delivered from one patient to another. A wait time, for example, in one office that is much longer than in another office, you might be willing to pay a little bit more to wait a little bit less time, or you might be willing to wait a little bit more time if the care delivered in that office is truly exemplary. 
   Now, Texas has taken some steps to make this more of a reality. I think people would like the ability for comparison. In fact, they would like to be able to go on-line for that comparison. I think Travelocity For Health Care, wouldn't that be a powerful tool to put into people's hands. 
   An example in Texas is what is called Texas Price Point. There is a Web site, www.txpricepoint.org, which was created to provide basic demographic quality and charge information on Texas hospitals and to promote additional or ready access to consumer and hospital information and the appropriate interaction that could occur as a result of that. 
   The program is very new. The data sometimes is a little too sparse, but it is a program that will build on itself over time and one that will I think provide significant utility to patients in Texas. And I believe other States have other programs. I think Florida has a program that is up and running. These are going to be critical. Some insurance companies have developed their own programs, and that will provide a critical knowledge base for patients who are covered by those insurance companies. 
   One of the things that is going to affect affordability, even accessibility as far as physicians are concerned, is what I alluded to earlier with the Medicare pricing. 
   Mr. Speaker, we had reported to us from the Center 
   for Medicare and Medicaid Services the first of this month, not even 2 weeks ago, that the proposed physician payment cuts for next year will be just a little bit over 10 percent for doctors across-the-board in this country. That is untenable. Doctors cannot be expected to sustain that type of reduction. 
   There is no telling what it does to a physician's ability to plan. A physician's office, after all, is a small business, and if they are going to be facing this type of price reduction, it is very difficult to plan. Do you hire a new nurse, do you purchase a new piece of equipment, do you take on a new partner, when year over year the Medicare system visits this type of travesty upon physicians? And this Congress, through both Republican majorities and now Democratic majorities, and Democratic majorities that preceded 1994, have refused to deal with this issue in a way that corrects it once and for all and gets us past the problem. 
   The difficulty is that year over year, the physician pricing is set by a formula called the sustainable growth rate formula, and year over year for the past 5 years and projected for 10 years into the future, every year there is a cut to physician reimbursement. 
   Now, you might say that doctors earn enough money and it is the Medicare system, so what harm is there in that? Let's go back for just a moment to Dr. Swerlick's article about administrative pricing. 
   ``Again,'' he said, ``the essential problem is this. The pricing of medical care in this country is either directly or indirectly dictated by Medicare, and Medicare uses an administrative formula, the sustainable growth rate formula, which calculates appropriate prices based upon imperfect estimates and fudge factors. Rather than independently calculate prices, private insurers in this country almost universally use Medicare prices as a framework to negotiate payments, generally setting payments for services as a percentage of the Medicare fee structure.'' 
   So, let's think about that, Mr. Speaker. What happens on January 1 if this House does not take some action to prevent that 10 percent reduction in physician payments? What happens on January 1 is all of those insurance contracts that peg to Medicare reimbursement rates, all of those are going to be reduced by a factor of about 10 percent, or in some cases a little bit more. If a plan pays 120 percent of Medicare and Medicare is reduced 10 percent, that plan will reduce a concomitant amount, which will be a little bit in excess of 10 percent for their pricing on their physician services. 
   Again, it has ripples and effects far beyond, far beyond what it would be affected just by the Medicare system. And it leads to a problem, it leads to a problem of what happens with the physician workforce. 
   Now, just a little over 2 years ago, when Alan Greenspan, the former Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board here in Washington, DC, was retiring and sort of made a tour around the Capitol, sort of a one last victory lap around the Capitol, and came and met with a group of us one morning, the question was inevitably asked, what do we do about Medicare? What do we do about the liabilities, the future liabilities in Medicare? How are we going to meet those obligations? 
   The chairman thought about it for a moment and then said, you know, I think when the time comes, Congress will take the action necessary and that the Medicare system will endure, will  be preserved. There may be some difficult choices and trade-offs that have to be made, but Congress at the correct time will make those choices. 
   He stopped for a moment and then went on to say, what concerns me more, is will there be anyone there to deliver the services when you require them? 
   And that really comes to the crux of the matter here. If we have a system within our Medicare reimbursement schedule for physicians where within the whole Medicare system itself, parts A, B, C and D, if only part B is affected by this, part A, which is the hospitals, they have a cost of living adjustment, part C, which is HMOs, they have a cost of living adjustment, part D, which is prescription drugs, they have a cost of living adjustment, if the only ones living under this onerous formula are the physicians, what happens over time? 
   Well, what happens is people will retire early, people will restrict their practices so they no longer see Medicare patients, physicians will restrict the procedures that they offer Medicare patients, perhaps preferring office procedures to surgical procedures that tend to be more labor intensive and time intensive. 
   It certainly has an effect on the law of supply and demand, if you will, as far as physician services are concerned within the Medicare system itself. For that reason, for that reason, it has a significantly pernicious effect on the physician workforce. 
   Remember, I started out this talk and I said we always want to focus on are we delivering value to that doctor-patient interaction in the treatment room? Well, I will submit if you don't have a doctor there for that doctor-patient interaction in the treatment room, it is impossible to deliver value of any sort, if you don't have the physician there in the first place. 
   So that is a critical part. A critical part of establishing and creating value for the patient is ensuring that there is indeed a capable and trained and caring physician there for that patient in the treatment room. And I worry that what we are providing for physician compensation within the Medicare system, which has ramifications throughout the entire private pay structure through the health care system, I do worry if that is a condition that can indeed be sustained. 
   Now, one of the other things that I think we oftentime lose sight of when we talk about affordability, we always talk about the number of uninsured that exist in this country. Sure enough, it is too big a number. The number varies, depending upon who you read. 
   But if we talk about the number today, we are probably going to talk about a number of around 47 million uninsured. And we always stop there and say, well, we have to do something about the 47 million who are uninsured, as if that was one homogenous population and one solution would work for everyone who is caught up in that category. 
   But the reality is, one of the large insurance companies in this country did a little investigating to see who makes up, who is involved in this population, this universe of people who are uninsured.     
   It turns out 10 percent are university students. If you say we have 47 or 48 million people uninsured, 10 percent of that is 4.8 million, nearly 5 million, are university students. Students who may arguably have health coverage available through their university or college. But even if they don't, this is a group of people that is pretty easy to insure. It is pretty inexpensive to insure. 
   So a solution for that group would be vastly different than some of the other groups identified. Twenty percent of that population is already eligible for Medicaid or the State Children's Health Insurance Program. Why States with outreach efforts have not identified those individuals, I don't know. Perhaps we ought to make it incumbent for States to do that work. 
   If we are providing Federal funds at all sorts of levels, maybe we ought to make it incumbent on States to do that outreach work so those individuals are enrolled in Federal programs to provide that. Again, think about it: 20 percent of 47 or 48 million people, that is almost 10 million people that could be taken off the rolls of the uninsured tomorrow because the programs already exist to take care of them. You don't need to create a new program or do something different from what you are doing right now. Current Medicaid, current SCHIP will cover 20 percent of that population. 
   And 20 percent earn almost $80,000 a year. That is not a huge sum of money, but certainly a group of people that might be considered to be able to provide something toward their own health care. I am not a fan of mandates. I don't think you get anywhere by telling people what they have to do. But if we allow insurance companies some freedom to create the types of programs that would be of value to that segment of the population, that would be affordable to that segment of the population, if we would perhaps remove some restrictions, maybe remove some mandates, or decide what are those things that are going to comprise a basic package of benefits so we can make it affordable and marketable to that group of individuals who arguably have some disposable income that they could use towards their health care rather than creating a huge, new Federal structure to bring them in. Maybe that is a tactic that could be taken. 
   Mr. Speaker, we don't like to focus a lot of time and energy on this, but we have to talk about it, and that is 20 percent of the people who fall into the category of the universe of uninsured people in this country are individuals who are in the country without the benefit of a Social Security number. Again, that is something that we as a country and we as a Congress do need to deal with. Whether that is increased efforts at controlling who is coming into our country and increased efforts at controlling our borders, but this is part of the problem that we as a Congress have yet to really face and deal with. 
   We made some efforts, to be sure, in the current State Children's Health Insurance Program. One of the recent legislative proposals that came through Congress and was passed by Congress that is still tied up in negotiations wanted to relax the verification required for someone being able to document or verify that they are in this country legally. I don't know. I think this body needs to decide what direction it wants to go on this. I don't know that is a terribly useful activity from my perspective. It might engender more people wanting to come into this country to get benefits, but that is something that this Congress has to take up and face no matter how difficult it is. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have talked about 10 percent university students, 20 percent already eligible for Medicaid or SCHIP, 20 percent who earn nearly $80,000 a year and 20 percent who are noncitizens. If we add those all together, that is approximately, 10, 20, 30, plus 5, so 35 million out of 47 million uninsured. We may have some solutions that are really just at our fingertips if we would expend a little bit of effort. And this is very frustrating to me. We never seem to want to do the effort to break down who is included in the population. 
   We are all too content to take the number 47 million uninsured and use it as a political bludgeon to beat each other over the head, but we are never willing to do the work that a private insurance company did in a relatively short period of time. We never seem to be willing to do the work. With all of our Federal agencies and bureaus that count numbers and people, we never seem to be able or willing to do the work to get this number, break it down into the smaller subsets, the smaller populations where, in fact, we may be able to provide some significant benefit. 
   Now, one of the things that I think we do need to talk about is on the aspect of accountability. First off, in any system that we talk about devising or implementing, we surely have to keep freedom of choice. We want to see the doctors we want to see when we want to see them. When hospitalization is required, freedom of choice has to remain central. 
   One of the things that oftentimes gets lost in the discussion when you look at the breakdown of how health care expenditures occurs in this country, approximately half is paid for by the Federal Government. When you look at the Medicare and Medicaid programs, we heard some discussion of the  HHS appropriations bill, $680 billion, almost $700 billion spent by this country every year by Medicaid and Medicare. Add to that the money spent in the veterans health service and add to that the money spent in the Indian health service and add to that the money spent in the Federal prison system, and you come pretty close to 50 cents out of every health care dollar that is spent in this country has its origin here on the floor of this Congress. So that is a pretty big chunk that comes from the Federal Government already. 
   The other half is not entirely private insurance, but certainly there is a large portion accounted by private or commercial insurance in this country. A portion, a portion is paid for by the patient out of their pocket. 
   I would include the growing number of people who are covered by health savings accounts in this group. Health savings accounts being a high-deductible insurance policy where a person is able to accumulate dollars, pre-tax dollars in a savings account dedicated to their health care. Those dollars are owned by the individual. They are dollars that would, if something happened to the individual, they would stay in the family. They don't go back to the Federal Government like Social Security. These are dollars that would stay around and be there to help your family. They would be there to help someone when they transition into the Medicare system. 
   Mr. Speaker, I had a medical savings account back in the 1990s when I was in the private practice of medicine back in Texas. I thought it was a great thing, not so much because of the money I was accumulating in this medical IRA. I thought it was a great thing because that was the time when HMOs were making big inroads into our medical practice in north Texas, and I liked the idea of being in charge of my health care decisions because I owned my own health insurance policy. As an individual policy, I felt I had much more power over what decisions were made for my health care and my family's health care. 
   So the whole concept of ownership, owning that medical IRA and being allowed to accumulate those savings to offset future medical expenses, that is a fundamental desire of many Americans. And I think that is a desire that should be encouraged and embellished. Why not be able to accumulate a few dollars dedicated toward your future health care needs? That is a pretty powerful tool to put into people's hands. 
   Again, for me the issue was being able to be in charge of my own health care, that individual freedom that comes with increased sovereignty. That was critical for me when I went out and looked for a medical savings account when they were first offered back in 1996 or 1997. 
   Certainly, Mr. Speaker, whenever we talk about accountability within the health care system, independence of the patient, the patient as an independent agent is something that must be preserved. That preservation of autonomy for the patient or the patient's designee if a medical power of attorney is exercised, but that is who should be responsible for the care, to be able to accept care, to be able to decline care if a particular medical intervention is either sought or someone wishes to not participate in the medical intervention that is offered. That is a fundamental right that we really should not take away from people. 
   Advancements within the system. Again, the science of our medicine here in the United States is superior to that anywhere else in the world. You might say that our system of allocation or delivery system needs work, but no one can argue about the science that is present in the medical system in this country. 
   So, high standards. We want to keep those high standards. The underpinnings of the American medical system has always been that we have high standards and we enforce standards of excellence, and nothing in the future should change that or undermine that. In fact, pathways to facilitate future growth in excellence should be encouraged. 
   When you talk about expanding the role of the Federal Government in health care, you look at some other places where the Federal Government has a really big footprint, like our Social Security system, or the IRS. Are those systems administered with the highest standard? Or is it lowest common denominator? That is certainly a question worth asking before we increase that segment that is taken over by the Federal Government. 
   As far as innovative approaches, American medicine has always been characterized by embracing innovation, developing new technologies and treatments. The transformational times we have had in medicine in the last century, development of anesthesia and blood banking in the 1910-1920 time frame, development of large-scale production of antibiotics and anti-inflammatory agents in the 1940s, the development of antipsychotic and antidepressant medications in the 1960s, development of newer hypertensive agents in the 1960s, the beginning of the development of medicines or the recognition that elevated cholesterol levels could lead to disease, and the beginning of medicines that would begin to impact that in the 1960s, all of those transformational events. And during those same times, in the 1910 to 1920 time frame, you had a congressional investigation or commission to investigate the vast discrepancy between curricula in medical schools in one part of the country versus another, and the standardization of medical school curricula which was so critical for establishing that knowledge base of science that was going to carry us forward through the last century. 
   In the 1940s, you are the introduction of employer-based insurance because of a reaction to wage and price controls that were in existence in the 1940s. And finally in the 1960s, you had the interjection of Medicare and Medicaid, for the first time the Federal Government having a big footprint in paying for health care. 
   So all of those transformational times were where the science changed rapidly and the public policy changed rapidly. I think we are on the cusp of such a time right now. Things are going to be changing in the realm of the whole arena of personalized medicine. The threshold of that stretches just before us. 
   The whole concept of far earlier prevention than anyone has thought possible. We have all heard that an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. Well, we are going to get to use those ounces of prevention because of the studies and work that has gone on with studying the human genome and the whole phenomenon of genomic medicine. We are going to be able to get that ounce of prevention administered so much earlier. So we will get the equity from that pound of cure in so many ways that really we can't even fathom them at this point. 
   What is critical is that this Congress not get caught up in the transactional, not always get caught up in the insurance and the Medicaid and the Medicare. Don't be so caught up in the transactional that you block the transformational because that is the real tragedy. That is the real difficulty. That is the real danger to the generations for a decade from now, two decades from now, three decades from now. 
   That is why this Congress needs to be so focused on this issue. That is why all of us on both sides of the aisle need to make ourselves students of health care policy. We need to find out as much as we possibly can about it. We need to come to this floor every day and every night prepared to debate this on the merits and science. Leave the politics on the side. This is one of those issues that is too important to leave to politics. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (COMPREHENSIVE TUBERCULOSIS ELIMINATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise in support of H.R. 1532, the Comprehensive Tuberculosis Elimination Act of 2008. 
   I certainly want to join in commending Congressman Gene Green, Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin, and Congresswoman Heather Wilson for their work on this bill. 
   This bill revises the national strategy to combat tuberculosis at the Centers for Disease Control. The Centers for Disease Control provides leadership and assistance to domestic and international efforts to prevent, control and eliminate tuberculosis. 
   Despite the lower incidence rate of tuberculosis in 2007, according to the Centers for Disease Control, the average annual percentage decline in the tuberculosis rate slowed from just over 7 percent per year in the 1993 to 2000 range to under 4 percent from 2000 to 2007. 
   The high global burden of this disease, coupled with continued problems of drug-resistant strains and lack of better tools for tuberculosis control, threatens our ability to eliminate tuberculosis in the United States. The Centers for Disease Control's national TB program provides grants to States and other entities for prevention and control services, researches the prevention and control of tuberculosis, funds demonstration projects, sponsors public information and education programs and supports education training and clinical skills improvement activities to address tuberculosis. 
   This bill will help in the noble goal of continuing to try to eradicate this disease. I do urge Members to support this legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (NATIONAL PAIN CARE POLICY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise in support of H.R. 2994, the National Pain Care Policy Act of 2008. Certainly, I also want to join the chairman of the subcommittee in commending Congresswoman Lois Capps and Congressman Mike Rogers for their work on this bill. 
   Chronic pain is disabling, and it's debilitating. It would certainly be frustrating for both the patients and caregivers alike. Fortunately, most painful conditions can be relieved with proper treatment and adequate pain management. This bill will create an interagency coordinating committee to coordinate all the efforts within the Health and Human Services and other Federal agencies related to pain research. 
   This effort, along with other efforts of the National Institutes of Health,  via the pain consortium, will go a long way towards increasing research and awareness of chronic pain. I do urge Members to support this legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (NATIONAL PAIN CARE POLICY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I would just simply add that many providers, many physicians across the country, will welcome that establishment of parameters and best practices. Oftentimes we feel caught between the situation where do we provide adequate pain relief to our patients and perhaps risk scrutiny from the department of drug enforcement, or do we risk the scrutiny of the patient and their family because of inadequate efforts at pain management. 
   Oftentimes it can be a fine line and quite a balancing act. I think we will go a long way towards alleviating the suffering of those who are sufferers of chronic and debilitating pain, but also provide additional resources to the caregivers when faced with these difficult situations. 
   Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time on my side, and I will yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (PHYSICIAN WORKFORCE ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Health care workforce issues are going to be a major and developing problem over the next several years, and it's a problem that the country really doesn't know a great deal about. In fact, in the next 20 to 30 years our population is going to age, and it's going to grow. And the current trends suggest that we will reach a critical shortage of physicians in growing communities, and it'll be especially acute in some specialties. 
   The problem is complex. The problem is varied, and does not have just one solution. But in a modest attempt to spark the discussion on how to increase the domestic supply of physicians and provide at least one solution, Congressman Matheson and I introduced H.R. 2583 last year. 
   H.R. 2583 will assist small hospitals that serve rural or growing areas by providing them with financial resources to establish a residency training program for certain high need medical specialties. 
   While we need to increase the number of doctors, we also need to make certain that they practice in areas where they're needed. We need to develop new residency training programs away from the major urban centers. It is a rule of thumb that most physicians tend to settle and start their families and integrate into the community where they complete their residency training program. H.R. 2583 will help smaller emerging communities attract and retain the medical professionals that their communities will need to rely on well into the future. 
   H.R. 2583 would establish an interest-free loan program for eligible hospitals to establish residency training programs. Over the period of its authorization, it should operate at no cost to the American taxpayer. 
   To qualify, hospitals will need to have secured preliminary accreditation from the American Council of Graduate Medical Education or the American Osteopathic Association, and have not had a residency training program in the past. These loans would go to pay salaries or benefits for residents, salaries of faculty and other costs directly attributable to the residency training program. 
   Mr. Speaker, in response to concerns raised during discussions on this bill, House Energy and Commerce staff and Member office staff have worked together in a bipartisan manner to address areas of concern. This bill represents a modest and an accountable approach to the growing problem of physician workforce issues. 
   This bill is supported by medical groups, and most notably, the American Osteopathic Association. I'm pleased also to have worked with Congressman Matheson on this important proposal. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, if Members want to help their smaller rural communities, and if they want to help attract medical professionals that their communities will need in the future, I urge a ``yes'' vote on H.R. 2583 today. 
   I reserve the balance of my time.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (METH FREE FAMILIES AND COMMUNITIES ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise in support of H.R. 6901, the Meth Free Families and Communities Act. I also want to commend Congresswoman Hooley and Congresswoman Cubin for their tireless work on this bill. 
   This bill reauthorizes a grant program administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Methamphetamine is a powerful central nervous system stimulant which affects neurochemical mechanisms responsible for regulating heart rate, body temperature, blood pressure, appetite, attention and mood. The grant program at the agency provides comprehensive family-based substance abuse treatment for methamphetamine addiction for pregnant and parenting women. 
   The bill updates the law by directing the agency to expand, intensify and coordinate efforts to provide for pregnant and parenting women and for the family-based treatment for methamphetamine addiction. In addition, the bill attempts to increase awareness of methamphetamine addiction amongst providers and employers. 
   By helping people break their addiction, this program helps to put them on a road towards self-sufficiency and ends the vicious cycle of methamphetamine addiction. 
   I commend Congresswoman Hooley and Congresswoman Cubin for their work on this bill and for all of their years of service to this body and to our Committee on Energy and Commerce. Both Members will be sorely missed, and I wish them well in whatever life has in store for them in the future.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTHY START REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise in support of S. 1760, the Healthy Start Reauthorization Act of 2007. I want to commend Congressman Towns and Congressman Upton of Michigan on this bill. This bill reauthorizes the Healthy Start Program. 
   In the United States, each year, approximately 6 million women become pregnant. Most women have a safe pregnancy and deliver a healthy infant, but that's not the experience for all. Healthy Start provides services tailored to the needs of high-risk pregnancies--to high-risk pregnant women, infants and their mothers in geographically, racially, ethnically, and linguistically diverse communities with exceptionally high rates of infant mortality--in an effort to reduce the factors that contribute to that high infant mortality rate, particularly among minority groups. 
   It is an important program which deserves reauthorization. That's why I'm happy to support it this evening. I urge Members to support this legislation. 
   I will reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (RYAN HAIGHT ONLINE PHARMACY CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume and rise in support of H.R. 6353. I would like to commend Congressman BART STUPAK and Ranking Member LAMAR SMITH of the Judiciary Committee for their work on this bill. 
   This bill prohibits the delivery, distribution or dispensing of controlled substances over the Internet without a valid prescription. Ryan Haight overdosed and died on February 12, 2001 on narcotics that he had purchased over the Internet. He was prescribed the medication from a doctor on the Internet, and the doctor never examined the patient. He was 17 when he purchased the narcotics and 18 when he died. 
   This bill will provide the Drug Enforcement Agency better tools to combat rogue Internet sites that are peddling narcotics to our children. 
   I urge Members to support this legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (MRSA AWARENESS MONTH -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I also rise in favor of House Resolution 988 and support designating the month of March as the Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus Awareness Month. I also want to thank the sponsor of this resolution, Representative Jim Matheson of Utah, for his work on this issue. 
   Staphylococcus aureus, commonly known as ``staph,'' is a potentially dangerous bacterium that can cause skin infections that look like pimples or boils. Staph infections also can cause redness, swelling, pain, and drainage at the site of infection. They can be warm to the touch and cause a fever. 
   Some staph infections are resistant to certain antibiotics and this makes it harder to treat. These infections are known as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA. They result from direct contact with people who have the infection. 
   Now anyone can get a staph infection, anyone can get a resistant staph infection. It is becoming more and more common. The national Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says that Americans visit their physicians approximately 12 million times a year to get checked for potential staph infections. In some areas of the country, more than half of the skin infections are caused by resistant strains of staph, according to the CDC. 
   While most serious methicillin-resistant staph infections occur among individuals in hospitals and health care facilities, there are community-acquired infections among competitive sports teams, correctional facilities, schools, workplaces, military facilities, homeless shelters, and other community settings. These infections usually occur through skin-to-skin contact, and even individuals who are not infected with resistant staph can be a vehicle for its transmission. 
   This resolution recognizes the importance of raising the awareness of methicillin-resistant staph aureus and methods of preventing infections through appropriate hygienic practices, such as hand washing, appropriate first aid to open wounds. In addition, the Centers for Disease Control conducts MRSA surveillance, prevention, education campaigns to raise awareness, and laboratory research to identify genetic patterns or relationships among the different types of resistant staph that could be used for prevention and control strategies. 
   I urge my colleagues to join us in recognizing March as the Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus Awareness Month, and I urge Members to support the resolution. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (BREAST CANCER PATIENT PROTECTION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, this is an important bill. It raises a fundamental question, who should make a medical decision? Is it the insurance company? Is it the HMO? Is it the United States Congress? Or is it a Federal agency? The answer to that question is ``none of the above,'' it is the patient's physician, in consultation with the patient and her family. And this rightfully puts the decision back where it should have been all the time. Patient, in consultation with physician or family, should make the appropriate decision. 
   There is nothing in this bill that says a 48-hour stay is required or mandated. There is nothing in this bill that says a 48-hour stay is a maximum length of time. 
   I also want to thank the ranking member, Mr. Barton, of the full committee for bringing the important amendment that would disallow an insurance company for rejecting an patient's claim based on an inadvertent error in the application process. This amounts to a clerical error that might seriously jeopardize a patient's health or leave a patient who was not expecting a very large medical expenditure to suddenly be facing one. And certainly, given the status of today's economic climate, that would be an intolerable occurrence as well. 
   I thank the author of the bill for bringing it forward. I thank the subcommittee chairman for bringing it to the floor. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEART FOR WOMEN ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1014. This legislation encourages manufacturers of drugs and devices to report to the Food and Drug Administration gender and race-specific information on their products. The legislation also authorizes the Secretary to develop a public awareness campaign relating to the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of heart disease, stroke, and cardiovascular diseases in women. 
   Lastly, the bill authorizes the WISEWOMAN program at the Centers for Disease Control which provides heart disease and stroke prevention screening, such as tests for high blood pressure and high cholesterol, to low-come uninsured and underinsured women. 
   I urge Members to support the bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (PAUL D. WELLSTONE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE, RESEARCH, AND EDUCATION AMENDMENTS OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume, and I rise in support of H.R. 5265, the Paul D. Wellstone Muscular Dystrophy Community Assistance, Research, and Education Amendments of 2008. I want to commend Congressman Engel for bringing this bill, and I was also proud to be the lead minority cosponsor on this bill. 
   H.R. 5265 reauthorizes the existing Centers for Disease Control efforts towards muscular dystrophy. The muscular dystrophies are a group of more than 30 genetic diseases characterized by progressive weakness and degeneration of the skeletal muscles that control voluntary movement. Muscular dystrophy funding is used for surveillance and family needs and assessment activities. 
   I am supportive of the bill's efforts to reauthorize and improve the existing muscular dystrophy registry at the Centers for Disease Control, and I urge Members to support the legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance my time.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL SUDDEN CARDIAC ARREST AWARENESS MONTH -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I will yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise today in support of House Concurrent Resolution 393, recognizing October as the National Sudden Cardiac Awareness Month. 
   Sudden cardiac arrest is one of the Nation's leading killers, claiming the lives of over a quarter million Americans a year. The most incidents of sudden cardiac arrest occur without any warning signs and can strike at any age, even in healthy infants, high school athletes, and adults with no prior signs of distress or heart disease. 
   Most victims of sudden cardiac arrest--95 percent--die because they are not able to receive a life-saving shock from an automated external defibrillator within 4 to 6 minutes before brain and permanent death start to occur. 
   Sudden cardiac arrest occurs when the heart stops working and no blood is  pumped to vital organs. The heart's electrical system malfunctions. And in fact, for those who can be identified to be at risk for SCA, an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator is very effective at preventing a deadly arrest. 
   This resolution will support continued efforts to raise awareness about the risk of sudden cardiac arrest, to improve the public's ability to identify warning signs and encourage individuals to seek medical attention in a timely manner. 
   I certainly would like to thank the Heart Rhythm Society and the 29 organizations that comprise the Sudden Cardiac Arrest Coalition for their support. I would also like to point out their ongoing efforts promoting public awareness and education campaigns that will be held each year during the month of October. 
   Certainly I also want to thank the sponsor of the resolution, Mr. Chip Pickering of Mississippi, for raising awareness about sudden cardiac arrest and improving national cardiovascular health. 
   I encourage all of my colleagues to vote in favor of this resolution. 
   I will yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH INSURANCE RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS CLARIFICATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman of the subcommittee for bringing the bill to the floor tonight. 
   This is an important bill, an important bill to me and an important bill to Mr. Stupak of Michigan. We've worked on this for a number of years through a number of sessions of Congress. In January 2001, the Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service and the Health Care Financing Administration, as it was then known, issued a rule in accordance to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 that was designed to guard against discrimination in coverage in the group health market. While addressing the issue of discrimination based upon participation in certain activities, these rules allowed continued health plan nonpayment based upon the source of an injury. This resulted in a situation where some people who have paid the premiums and believed they would be covered by their plans were actually responsible for paying for their own medical treatment because the exclusions were either unclear or very, very broad. 
   The lack of clarity underlying these exclusions has created a confusing situation for individuals that may ride a motorcycle, might ride on horseback, might operate a snowmobile or participate in other activities that could result in an injury. Millions of Americans enjoy these activities safely every year within the framework of State laws and utilizing proper safety precautions. Earlier last year Congressman Stupak and I introduced H.R. 1076 to restore fairness and equity to the situation. 
   In response to concerns raised during discussions on this bill, the House Energy and Commerce staff, my staff and Mr. Stupak's staff have all worked together in a bipartisan manner to address certain areas of concern. As a result of these conversations in negotiations, we have reintroduced our original legislation to encapsulate the agreed-to principles. 
   H.R. 6908, the Health Insurance Source of Injury Clarification Act will, number one, require any limitations and restrictions on health plan benefits be spelled out, that they be explicit, that they be clear; number two, require that they be disclosed to the sponsor of the group health plan in advance of the point of sale of the group health plan; and, thirdly, require that the issuer of the health insurance coverage make available to participants and beneficiaries in an easily understandable manner a description of the limitations and restrictions upon their enrollment. 
   This legislation is supported by a number of groups. The American Motorcyclist Association has been very supportive and very vocal in their support of this legislation, and I certainly appreciate their efforts in advocating for an issue that is very important to them, likewise the Motorcycle Riders Foundation. In addition, the American Council of Snowmobile Association, the American Horse Council, the American Recreational Coalition, American Trails, Americans for Responsible Recreational Access, the Blue Ribbon Coalition, the International Mountain Bicycling Association, the National Ski Areas Association, the Specialty Vehicle Industry Council, the Sporting Goods Manufacturing Association, the Washington Road Riders Association, and many others support this legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, again, this is a culmination of many, many months and indeed years of work on the Energy and Commerce Committee. Again I want to congratulate the cosponsor of the bill, Mr. Stupak of Michigan, and thank the chairman and the ranking member of the subcommittee for allowing this bill to come forward this evening.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING PREVENTION AND PUBLIC HEALTH -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume, and I also rise in support of House Resolution 1381, a resolution expressing the sense of the House that there should be an increased public and private commitment prioritizing prevention and public health for all people in the United States. 
   Each year almost 2 million people in the United States die from chronic diseases that are often preventible and also account for almost three-quarters of health care spending. It costs the United States almost $1 trillion a year in lost productivity that erodes our national competitiveness. 
   In an effort to alleviate chronic diseases, Americans need to eat right, quit smoking, and get exercise. You probably don't need to be an economist to understand why that will help increase economic productivity, and it's intuitively obvious to the most casual observer that this can help prevent the onset of chronic disease and improve the quality of our lives. 
   This resolution urges the people of the United States to use the five prevention strategies to create healthier lifestyles. It encourages daily aspirin therapy, smoking cessation, colorectal cancer screening, annual flue immunizations, and breast cancer screenings that can save more than 100,000 lives each year by addressing behavioral choices. 
   In addition, the resolution suggests that the Congressional Budget Office process should reflect the significant savings associated with prevention of disease and injury. And that's of particular concern to me and something that I argue for in many other vocations and other legislation that we have to have the ability to do dynamic scoring when we follow policies that are likely to result in savings. 
   So the line in the bill, that it is the sense of the House we believe ``the congressional budget process should reflect the significant savings associated with investments in prevention of disease and injury,'' and that is an important concept and one that this Congress and the next Congress would do well to recognize and encourage our Congressional Budget Office to follow likewise. 
   I would like to thank the author of this resolution, Representative Lucille Roybal-Allard of California, for her leadership in improving the awareness of the benefits of prevention and her efforts to lower the number of preventable chronic diseases in the United States. 
   I encourage all of my colleagues to vote in favor of this resolution.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES ORGAN TRANSPLANT AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6469, the Stephanie Tubbs Jones Organ Transplant Authorization Act of 2008. I am proud to support this bill in honor of the late Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones. 
   I would also like to commend Congresswoman Diana DeGette for her work on this bill. 
   This bill increases the authorized funding for the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network, which has not been increased since 1984. The Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network provides coordination between individuals in need of an organ transplant and donor organs made available from deceased donors. I support the increased authorization levels for the program, which currently represent only 7 percent of the operating cost for this valuable resource. 
   For those concerned about the increased expenditure, do consider for a moment, in just the arena of kidney dialysis and of kidney transplant, the cost of keeping someone on dialysis three times a week indefinitely. That person can be relieved of that burden, of that dialysis burden. The dialysis, itself, costs significant amounts of money. Of course, that's not to say anything about the quality of life that may be returned to that person who is a recipient of a transplant. 
   I agree with the gentleman from California. We should sign our donor cards, if we're able, and should become donors because there are people on waiting lists. There is no point in sending organs to heaven. Heaven knows we need them here. With that, I urge support of the legislation. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SUPPORTING THE WE DON'T SERVE TEENS CAMPAIGN -- (House of Representatives - September 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I will yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   And I do rise in support of House Resolution 1042. 
   Since Congress passed the National Minimum Drinking Age in 1984, teen drinking rates have dropped; 25 percent fewer high school seniors drink than in 1983. But despite these gains, many teens still drink, and when they do, it can be to excess, with 25 percent of seniors reporting binge drinking. 
   Mr. Speaker, adolescent years can be fraught with peril. It is said that being a teenager is risky business. Adding alcohol to the mix can compound the difficulties, and especially when driving, being behind the wheel of a car. Drunk driving is the leading cause of death among people ages 15 to 20. These crashes claim and kill almost 2,000 teenagers each year; and in 65 percent of them, the kids got the alcohol without permission from family or friends. 
   The best protections against underage drinking are prevention and enforcement strategies by parents and members of the community. Parents should take the time to discuss with their children the dangers of underage drinking, and can use the Federal Trade Commission's Web site as a resource for parents, educators and community leaders concerned about underage drinking. 
   The We Don't Serve Teens campaign has worked to unite State officials, business leaders, parents and all three tiers of the beverage alcohol industry in fighting underage drinking, and unites all of those participants in a concerted effort to protect America's youth. 
   I do want to thank the sponsor of the resolution, Mrs. Bono Mack of California, for raising public awareness and her continued effort to reduce underage drinking. 
   I encourage all of my colleagues to vote in favor of this resolution. 
   Having no additional requests for time on my side, I will yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (CHARLIE W. NORWOOD LIVING ORGAN DONATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Barton for the time, and I thank Chairman Dingell for bringing this bill to the floor. This is a wonderful legacy for Charlie Norwood. Charlie was all about clarification and common sense. We miss him on the committee. Personally, he was my mentor and had seen me through many issues on the committee. But I can think of no more fitting way to close out the legacy of Charlie Norwood than with this act that brings clarification to Federal law and allows paired donations to proceed apace. 
   Charlie Norwood, from life hereafter, has reached back to this House and delivered one last dose of common sense. Thank you, Charlie. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SOMETHING WE CAN ALL AGREE ON: OUR TAX SYSTEM NEEDS HELP -- (House of Representatives - March 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, it's springtime in Washington. We're all anxiously awaiting the start of the spring baseball season, cherry blossoms, and of course April 15 when we all face the deadline for filing our Federal income tax. 
   Now questions are often asked, paper or plastic, regular or decaf, conservative or liberal. Americans don't always agree and don't always see eye to eye. But there is one thing which a majority of us do agree on and agree on hands down, that our Federal tax system needs serious help. According to a 2007 Tax Foundation Study, 78 percent of Americans think the tax system needs a major overhaul. 
   Everyone knows the problem. Each year Americans dedicate billions of hours and billions of dollars complying with a very complex Tax Code. In fact, in 2005, the average taxpayer paid almost $1,900 per household in compliance costs. That means a taxpayer must work 6 days each year just to pay for the cost of preparing his or her Federal taxes for that year. 
   Time is precious. Time is money. Time is fleeting. Time is precious, and we never have enough for raising our families. Time is money, and valuable resources are lost that could be spent on productive activities such as growing the economy and creating jobs. Time is fleeting. And we can never reclaim those hours that we have spent complying with our very complex Tax Code. 
   We all complain about paying taxes. We all complain about navigating the complex code. And the fact is, if the system was fair and simple, it would be a lot easier to follow and a lot easier to swallow. Americans don't mind paying for roads, for a strong defense, or even for health care for your grandmother. 
   The fact is, right now, we have a situation where two families can be living side by side, earn exactly identical incomes and face a very different tax liability on April 15. The Smith family makes the same amount as the Jones family, and they're forced to pay a higher share of the tax burden. 
   The Declaration of Independence states that all men are created equal. Maybe it also should say all taxpayers should be created equal, and it should apply to the tax burden. 
   Changes could be made within our existing system to improve it in the short term. Full expensing of business capital, permanently repealing the estate tax, abolishing the alternative minimum tax are a few of the possibilities. But fundamental tax reform would pay larger dividends. Just think of the jobs and economic growth that resulted when President Ronald Reagan cut the code in half back in 1986. Let's apply some of that same common sense that President Reagan used back in 1986 to streamlining today's unruly code in the 21st century. 
   Simplicity and fairness demand that we replace our current system with a single rate system that taxes income only one time. Even the National Taxpayer Advocate, Nina Olsen, recommended that lawmakers simplify the tax code. That was one of her recommendations in the 2007 annual report to Congress. 
   A faster, a flatter, a fairer tax structure would work and it's pretty simple. Tax returns could be done on a single page, maybe even on a postcard. It could be accomplished in just a few steps. 
   Time me now. Multiply your income by a fixed percentage, subtract a standard deduction, and the process is over. Fourteen seconds. Gone will be the stressful hours figuring out whether your military service or your marital status will adversely affect your return. No more headaches trying to determine where the estimated tax payments go. Tax prep fees might be money spent on, I don't know, something more rewarding. Maybe a vacation, maybe a personal day off, maybe even creating a new job. 
   A single tax rate structure would eliminate taxes on capital gains, taxes and dividends and taxes on savings because again, remember, we're going to tax income only one time. Businesses could expand and create jobs. Personal savings would increase. 
   How many times we hear it said over and over again, Americans don't save enough money. Americans don't save enough money because when they put some of their hard-earned money into savings, half of the interest earned goes away to Federal income tax. It's taxed as ordinary income. Where's the incentive in that? We ought to incent savings in this country, not punish it, not grind the saver into the dust when, in reality, if we increase savings in this country we might not face some of the problems that we face today. 
   Without the heavy corporate income tax which is currently the second highest in the industrialized world; let me say that again, the second highest in the industrialized world, companies would have less incentive to move their headquarters out of the United States and, more importantly, less incentive to offshore their earnings. 
   Recent polling by American Solutions show that 80 percent of Americans favor an optional one page tax return with one rate. After all, who could complain about making something easier, especially a process that comes at a high cost. 
   Former Speaker Gingrich said in this body over and over again, real change requires real change. Americans agree the Tax Code is unfair and should go. Let's take a cue and translate this agreement into real change. After all, fundamental tax reform is a worthwhile goal, and this Congress, this Congress should take it up and pursue it for the benefit of the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (NEW DIRECTION FOR ENERGY INDEPENDENCE, NATIONAL SECURITY, AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - August 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman for yielding.  
   I am on the Committee of Energy and Commerce, but because of the restrictions of time for this very important bill, I appreciate him giving me time off the Small Business Committee's timeline. 
   Mr. Chairman, I come to the floor of the House to actually educate Members about some stuff that is in this bill of which they may not be aware. I had an amendment in subcommittee and full committee, and the again yesterday in the Rules Committee that was not made in order. But this amendment deals with the timeline that is going to outlaw the incandescent bulb in this country by 2012. That means, for the current time, you will be using one of these for your light bulbs at home, a compact fluorescent bulb. Perhaps a good idea. They last a long time, they consume less energy; but, Mr. Chairman, they also contain mercury, about 5 milligrams per light bulb. 
   What is the problem with that? The problem with that is these light bulbs can break. And if they do, what does the Environmental Protection Agency recommend? It recommends you open the window and leave the room for 5 minutes. It recommends that you double-bag your vacuum cleaner bag to pick up all the parts you can without vacuuming, and when you do vacuum put the vacuum cleaner bag in a double plastic bag and send it only to a landfill that accepts mercury. A pretty onerous burden to put upon the taxpayers of the United States. 
   But the real concern that I have is that we have locations in this country where we have vulnerable populations that are difficult to move: a nursery in a hospital, a daycare center, a nursing home with nonambulatory patients. If you break a compact fluorescent bulb in one of those locations, you are in for big trouble. You have got to move 20 children who are in a nursery before 15 minutes time is up? Most nurseries that I worked in, in hospitals, don't even have a window to open. So how are you going to comply with those EPA guidelines? 
   The fact of the matter is, my amendment would have had language that said: no nursery, hospital, nursing home is compelled to use a compact fluorescent bulb where the population might be vulnerable if there were the escape of mercury out into the environment. 
   Unfortunately, the House Speaker, the House leadership did not want that amendment made in order. We now all have these in our offices over in the Longworth Building. I know I found two. I wasn't told that they were being put in the office. 
   People need to know, they need to be aware that there are very specific guidelines that deal with the breaks of these bulbs, and it is important that they not be compelled to be used in nurseries or with vulnerable populations. 
   Ms. VEL&#193;ZQUEZ. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (NATIONAL MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS AWARENESS WEEK -- (House of Representatives - March 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, this week, March 10-17, is National Multiple Sclerosis Awareness Week. The goal of this annual event is to raise awareness of this disease for those individuals and their families who are impacted by it. 
   Every hour in the United States, someone new is diagnosed with MS. It is a chronic, often disabling disease that attacks the central nervous system. Many Americans know a person living with multiple sclerosis, a mother or father, a son or daughter, another family member or friend, or even a colleague. 
   For me, it was a member of my staff. This brave and strong woman inspired me to get more involved in the battle to live in a world free of multiple sclerosis. As a medical doctor prior to coming to Congress, I'm working here to find sensible solutions for the health care challenges that Americans face. As the cochair of the newly formed Congressional Multiple Sclerosis Caucus, I intend to bring the needs of those individuals into the larger discussion of quality health care. 
   Mr. Speaker, we must work together to improve access to quality health  services, to break down barriers, and to make MS therapies more affordable. I ask other Members of the House to join me in this noble cause. We must always remember that behind every statistic is the face of a family member or friend. We have a shared responsibility to offer help and hope. There is no better time than now to begin offering it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I come to the floor tonight to talk about health care, which we sometimes do in this hour. It's an important subject, and we are going to hear a lot about this over the coming year. We have got a Presidential election that is now in full throttle across the country. 
   We just had Super Tuesday, and by a strange turn of events the nominations are not settled and my home State of Texas now next month will, in fact, play a big role in helping select the nominees of the two parties. During this coming month, I expect we will hear a great deal about the plans and visions and the aspirations of the different candidates for health care. 
   But let's not forget, when we talk about health care, that it is on the floor of this House where about 50 cents out of every health care dollar that is spent in the United States of America today, it is on the floor of this House where that spending originates. I can't help but observe the last speaker who was addressing the House on the subject of the budget was critical of the President's budget, which is his prerogative and his right, but I would remind the previous speaker that it is his party that is in charge, as it was last year, and while it is the President's obligation to present a budget to the Congress every year, it is then the Congress' obligation to work on that budget and pass a budget, which will be voted on later in the year, that either accepts or rejects those proposals put forth by the President. 
   Indeed, last year, that is exactly what happened. So the budget that went forward last year was not the President's budget, I would point out to the gentleman from New York, but the budget last year was the budget passed by the majority on the House of Representatives floor last year, and the same thing will be true this year. They are in charge. It is their right and prerogative under the rules of the House that they will have absolute authority to create the budget and, as a consequence, those things that are felt to be important are going to be those things that are championed by their side. Those things that are felt to be less important will be those things that are left of the budget. That responsibility lies in the House of Representatives. Under the rules of the House, that responsibility lies with the majority party. Currently, the majority party is the party of the gentleman who just spoke. 
   So while I appreciate his passion, I appreciate his fervor in talking about the President's budget, I think he would be better served to actually spend some time talking to his leadership about the priorities as they come forward over this next year, because there are some significant problems that faced this House last year that were simply kicked down the road at the end of the year. 
   In fact, we saw a repeat of that last week. We were obliged to reauthorize the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act so that we have the tools necessary, our intelligence community has the tools necessary to prevent terrorist attacks on our homeland security and to help protect our soldiers who are serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. We couldn't do it, so we kicked the can  down the road a couple of weeks right at the end of the year, December. 
   We were supposed to do something about Medicare because physicians across the country were facing a 10.1 percent reduction in their reimbursement, a 10.1 percent pay cut if Congress didn't act. Well, we did act. We prevented that, but we prevented it for 6 months. Six months. What an insult. What an insult to the physicians of this country who are taking care of our Medicare patients, the patients we have asked them to care for. We couldn't even do our work to give them the certainty of what they would be reimbursed for the next year? No, it's 6 months is all you get, Doc, and then we're going to come back and visit it again. And, oh, by the way, we'll be in the middle of that Presidential campaign by then, so don't expect us to devote much more attention to it in June than we were able to muster in December. 
   But I digress. My purpose in being here tonight is to speak a little bit about what is going on in the practice of medicine, and, in spite of the fact that I may sound a little bit despondent, I will tell you that I am so optimistic about the world ahead, what the future holds for the young people today who are contemplating a career in health care. 
   When I was a young medical student in the mid 1970s in Houston, Texas, I could never have imagined that the day would come in my lifetime when a person could, of their own volition, go to the Internet and, with a couple of mouse clicks, find a place that would analyze their DNA and for less than $1,000 provide them vital insights into their genomic makeup so that they might be forewarned about some diseases, so that they might be forewarned about some conditions and use those tools to help manage their health well into the future. 
   Now, we hardly know what the results of this type of investigation are going to be. It has only been in the last couple of months, in fact, I think it was Thanksgiving that I read the New York Times article that talked about one of these labs that would provide this service. But who would have thought when I was in medical school in the mid-1970s that this day would have dawned where that information is available not just to the physician, it's available to the patient, to anyone who wishes to go on the Internet and seek out that information, seek out that lab and have that type of analysis done. 
   Think back on 20 or 30 years ago, a patient went to the doctor, the doctor gave a diagnosis, recommended a treatment plan to the patient, who pretty much had to accept what was given or go get a second opinion. Then, of course, in the late 1990s, and I know this very well because I was practicing actively at that time, render a diagnosis, write out a treatment plan, the patient would go to the Internet and check it out and then they come back and say, Doctor, this is what you're supposed to be doing. I went to the Internet and read about this. 
   Now in the 21st century a patient will be coming to their physician and providing genomic information and saying, Doctor, here's what I'm at risk for developing. How are you going to help me keep that from occurring? You know, Dr. Elias Zerhouni, the head of the National Institutes of Health, talks about a world where medicine becomes a great deal more personalized. It's no longer one size fits all, it's no longer just one antidepressant is out there for everyone. It's a much more personalized endeavor. 
   Because of the ability to know this information about the human genome, it's going to be a great deal more predictive. As a consequence, because of that predictive value, preventive medicine is going to take on new meaning, a meaning that, again, I would have never thought possible early in my training. 
   Finally, medicine is, of necessity, going to become more participatory. A patient will no longer be just a passive passenger along for the ride on their medical journey. No, they will have to be an active participant in managing their health care from times of health and 
   times of disease. 
   Medicine is right on the verge of a truly transformational time. You add what we know, what we are beginning to understand and learn about the human genome and look how fast information comes at us nowadays. It is, again, just hard to think that back in the mid-1970s when I was in medical school, Internet, never heard of an e-mail, what's that? And now these are things that we take for granted. To our children, these modalities are simply second nature. They cannot imagine existing for even a day in a world where a cell phone and e-mail are not readily at their fingertips. 
   The speed at which information comes to us is truly phenomenal and, as a consequence, in professions such as the health care professions, a dramatic effect is going to be felt because of the ability to sort through large amounts of information over a short period of time and to extract data from those large amounts of information. 
   On the floor of this House, in September of this year, we reauthorized legislation pertaining to the Food and Drug Administration. It was truly landmark legislation. I don't know if my friends on either side of the aisle really recognized how significant that legislation was, because, for the first time, for the first time the Food and Drug Administration is provided with the tools for collecting that type of information and proactively researching that database. 
   The day may well dawn when a problem like Vioxx is discovered early, early in its release into general use and the types of difficulties that were encountered with that medication several years ago will, in fact, be a thing of the past. The red flags will be up. The warnings will be there. They will come immediately to someone's attention because of the type of database management that will be available. Truly, we will have a system that is totally interactive. The resultant effect on public health will be profound, because it's not just the side effects and the untoward effects that we are talking about, what if there was an unexpected beneficial effect where, perhaps, more people ought to be offered the benefits of this therapy or this medication. 
   Certainly, the story that we have learned with the type of medicine, the class of medicine called statins that lower cholesterol, that story has evolved significantly over the last several years. In the early 1990s, a LDL cholesterol of less than 130, you're in good shape. Then a couple of years later, it was less than 100, and now it's well under 100. The numbers to shoot for have gone down because the experience with that medicine, the information and data that has been gathered has pointed the way for physicians to understand that a subsequent lowering of that value will, indeed, protect a person's health in ways that they wouldn't have imagined when those medicines were first released. 
   Medicine is in a transformational time. Congress is going to have a lot to do with how medicine is practiced and paid for and regulated, not just in the next couple of years, but in the next 20 years, 30 years, 40 years, 50 years. The decisions that we make on the floor of this House today are going to extend far into the future, probably far beyond the lifetimes of many of us who serve in this House today. 
   But Congress really is not in the business of being transformational. Congress is transactional. We heard that just a few moments ago with the discussions on the budget. What does Congress do? We take money from this group and we give it to this group, and it defines who we are morally if we listen to the rhetoric of the last speaker. But that's what Congress does. We transact, we take money from this group, and we give it to this group. If you will watch the discussion that unfolds on the budget over the next several weeks, that will become intuitively obvious to the most casual of observers. 
   However, in a body that is so focused on the transactional, is it possible to keep an eye on the transformational and be certain that we don't derail the transformation that is likely to be occurring in medicine today? That's one of the tasks, that's one of the challenges, that's one of the obligations that we have serving in this body. 
   Now, I would submit if Congress wants to participate in the transformation, if they want to participate in improving health care, they are, in fact, capable of doing so. In fact, Congress could be a partner in the transformation if we can step back from the transactional long enough to focus on  the transformational. This is not just theoretical. 
   I had an opportunity to speak to Dr. Michael DeBakey, pioneer in heart surgery, a gentleman of great renown. We honored him on the floor of this House with a Congressional Gold Medal earlier this year. I had an opportunity to sit down with Dr. DeBakey. He talked about some of the changes that he has seen in his lifetime. He related how when he was a young man and graduated from medical school and then did his residency at Tulane Charity Hospital in New Orleans, he wanted to go into research. But he knew that in order to have the credentials to go into research he would have to go to Europe in order to obtain those credentials. This was back in the 1930s. Well, nowadays, someone who graduates from medical school and finishes their training and wants to devote a lifetime to research gets those credentials in the United States of America. In fact, other physicians travel to this country, to our hospitals, to our Texas Medical Center in Houston, to our Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas, to our M.D. Anderson Hospital in Houston. They travel to our country to get those credentials because that's where the best science is being done. 
   Dr. DeBakey reflected what caused the change between the time he graduated in the mid-1930s and what we see now at the end of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century. He maintained the cause of that change was the focus and attention, and, yes, the funding that Congress provided to medical research right after the Second World War. Indeed, the funding and the vision of the entire National Institutes of Health was a product of that type of visionary thinking. 
   So as Dr. DeBakey presented that thought to me, it was with the underscored emphasis that Congress can do this because Congress has done this before. So if we stay focused on helping and protecting and promoting that transformation in medicine, then it is possible for Congress to be, again, a participant in that transformation and not an enemy of that transformation. 
   Now, I am fortunate, because I did spend a number of years practicing medicine, working one time in a multispecialty practice, part of my time in a solo practice, part of my time in a single specialty practice, having practiced medicine in several different modalities during my lifetime, it gives me the ability to see things from the provider's side and now to see things from the policy side.     
   It is so important that we spend the effort understanding those things that will work and understanding those things that will not work. 
   I alluded earlier when I first started speaking about the problems that we face because we couldn't do our work in December and we postponed any real reform on the reductions in physicians' payments that we see year after year. You have seen me put up the posters that detail how hospitals, drug companies, HMOs are paid on a cost-of-living adjusted basis year over year, but physician reimbursement is paid on a crazy formula that reduces and ratchets down reimbursements year over year. That just simply won't work. 
   When I talk about Congress being a transactional body and that transactional activity being the enemy of the transformational, that is precisely the type of transactional activity to which I am referring. 
   Think of it. We always talked about the laws of supply and demand. What are we doing to the supply side of that equation if we are actually telling our doctors we don't value what you do, and we don't care about the fact that you take care of our sickest patients, our Medicare patients? That is just not important to us in Congress, and then we underline that by postponing dealing with it for 6 months. Again, an assaulting concept to the doctor who is toiling day after day to take care of the patients that we have asked them to take care of for us. 
   Another aspect of that activity, as the year wound down last year, was the attempt to attach a rather inflexible program of e-prescribing to whatever fix we managed to achieve for the Medicare payment. Now, e-prescribing is not inherently a bad concept. 
   Madam Speaker, you think about it, I am left-handed so my handwriting has never been good. And then I went to medical school and had to take notes fast, and my handwriting got worse. And then I got old, and my handwriting got even worse. And so it is very difficult to read those handwritten prescriptions that we scribble out quickly at the end of a patient visit. What a benefit it would be to the patient, to the pharmacist, and to the physician to have a method whereby that prescription was shot to the pharmacist via e-mail at the time of the patient encounter. It would save waiting time, no problems with legibility, and there could be computer algorithms that were developed that would prevent a patient receiving a medicine to which they were allergic or which would counteract or interfere with another medicine they were taking. So a good concept. And then like so many things, Congress deals with it in a way that makes it untenable. 
   The e-prescribing bill introduced by a Senator on the other side of the Capitol, said, Doctor, if you do this, we will provide you a carrot and a stick. The carrot is a 1 percent increase in your reimbursement for taking care of that patient and providing an electronically written prescription at the end of that patient visit. Just 1 percent. 
   Now I am going to make some numbers up because it makes the math work. In fact, the numbers are probably much lower than what I am going to make up. But assume a physician working in an average practice in a city like mine sees a Medicare patient, return visit, moderate complexity. Assume they are paid $50 for that visit. That is actually pretty generous if you look at most of the Medicare fee schedule reimbursement rates. But because it makes the math easy, let's say $50. 
   So if that doctor participates in an e-prescribing regimen, what does that mean? It means they get an extra 1 percent. That is 50 cents for those of you slow at math. So that visit is going to take about 15 minutes if you do it correctly. Again, remember it is a moderately complex Medicare patient, a senior citizen. So you get an extra 50 cents if you, instead of writing that prescription by hand, you put it into a laptop or BlackBerry and send it off to the pharmacist electronically. 
   You can see four of those patients in an hour. If you are really pushing yourself and you have everything firing on all eight cylinders in the office and the front desk and nurses are moving along, you can see four patients in an hour. So four $50 visits. So that is $200 reimbursed for that hour's work. That is not the doctor's pay. Don't misunderstand me. He has to pay all of the overhead as well. Nevertheless, during that hour, that physician will generate $200 in revenue. For that, if they do e-prescribing, we will reward them and give them an additional $2 for that hour's work. 
   That is not a great incentive, but let's think about it also from the fact that it is not just one prescription that doctor writes for that Medicare patient, no. The average Medicare patient has three or four prescriptions. So when you figure it on a per prescription basis, the actual benefit to the physician is somewhat less than 10 cents for every prescription that is handled electronically. And it is a little bit more involved to do that. A doctor who is used to writing out a prescription quickly can do so quickly. Typing it into a laptop or BlackBerry is going to take longer, maybe a minute or two minutes. But if you are seeing 30 patients a day, 2 minutes per patient, that adds up to an extra hour, and that extra hour is an hour away from hospital activities, seeing other patients, an hour away from family. It comes from somewhere, because we all know that the hours in the day is a zero sum game. If you take an extra hour, it comes from somewhere else. 
   So we are going to compensate for that. We are going to pay a little less than 10 cents per prescription as it is written. 
   What if you don't do it? You say it isn't worth it. You cut my reimbursement every year in Medicare, I have to take on this big expense, I have to learn a new technology, pay the expense of the software maintenance, I am not going to participate. 
   Well, the bill that was introduced last December, after 4 years' time, would have applied the stick to encourage, again, our physician community  to utilize this technology. And the stick was a 10 percent penalty. 
   Wait a minute, a 1 percent up tick and a 10 percent penalty. That is imbalanced. Let's go back to our hypothetical return visit, moderately complex Medicare patient, a $50 reimbursement, 10 percent penalty, that is a $5 penalty for that visit. And if you are seeing four patients an hour, that is a $20 penalty for that hour's work. You see the balance. If you do it, we will pay you $2 because we think it is worth that. If you don't do it, it will cost you $20. 
   And we wonder why our senior citizens call up to get an appointment with a physician when they get covered on Medicare and no one wants to see them? This is the way we behave. We cut their pay. We can't agree amongst ourselves to do something rational to protect physician reimbursement rates at the end of the year. And by the way, we want to add this thing on top, this secondary insult on top of the others. 
   I urge Congress to not focus on the transactional; focus on the transformational. What do you need? If you are going to move from a system we have today, which is based on a written prescription, to a true electronic prescription environment, who do you need on your side on that? I am telling you, if you don't have the doctor on your side, it is not going to happen. Yes, you can frighten and cajole and preach all you want, but it is 
   important for Congress to remember that this transformation will take place faster, with much more expediency, if we will take the time and trouble to instruct, educate, provide for, provide the proper support and proper compensation for our physician community if they undertake it, embracing this type of technology. 
   One of the things we are going to hear a lot of as we go through this Presidential election year, terms like ``universal coverage,'' ``universal access,'' and they don't mean the same thing, so it is important to spend a few minutes differentiating between the two. We will hear talk about mandates and whether they are a good thing or a bad thing. We will hear ``individual mandates,'' ``State mandates,'' ``employer mandates,'' and it is important to spend a few minutes discussing the differences between those terms as well. 
   Let's deal with the concept of universality of medical care. That is one that many people in this body and many people on the Presidential trail today say they want to see. 
   Now, universal coverage, universal access. Universal access, everyone has insurance whether they want to do it or not. It is a little tough to do that in a free society, but yes, we can write laws that can make that happen. See the discussion on mandates in a few minutes. But universal coverage is one of the options available to us. 
   Universal access would say that everyone has access, everyone has the ability to go out and purchase an affordable policy. And if they can't afford it, they have the ability to access a funding mechanism that will provide the type of premium support, the type of premium assistance to get them that coverage. And that debate will occur over this next year. 
   Universal coverage, universal access. 
   On the whole issue of mandates, and this is an important concept for people to understand, is it better to say this is law, this is something you have to have, or is it better to create the types of programs that people will actually want to have? Let's think about that for just a minute. 
   What does the term ``individual mandates'' mean? It means a law is passed by a legislative body, in this case the Federal Government, although it has been tried at the State level. An individual mandate means that everyone has to go out and buy insurance. In my home State of Texas, we have that with our automobile policies now. Everyone has to buy an automobile policy. With an individual mandate, that is how we would achieve universal coverage. You have to buy insurance, and if you don't, there is a penalty to be paid of some sort. 
   In the State of Massachusetts, in really what I consider a very bold attempt to provide coverage for everyone, an individual mandate was instituted. It hasn't worked out exactly as planned, and some of the difficulties encountered in Massachusetts were cited in California as a reason why that State's plan for universal coverage was recently defeated in the California State Senate. Many people looked at the option, or the requirement, I should say, of buying insurance and said, I don't know. And then remember the law of supply and demand. We increase the demand because we mandate it, you have to do it. What happens? The price goes up, and as a consequence some people looked at that and said, I really can't afford that. I will pay the fine rather than buying the insurance. Truly a perverse incentive. 
   So some of the support for the concept being talked about in California found itself lacking when faced with that equation in another part of the country. How can you consider putting an individual mandate on when it drives costs up and people find themselves in a position that they would rather pay the fine for not having the insurance than they would to purchase the insurance itself? 
   When we talk of mandates, and there have been several studies done on this, think back to the 1960s. The United States Congress put a mandate out there that every motorcycle rider in the country would have to wear a helmet. They reversed that mandate and put that obligation, correctly, in the court of the States to make that decision. And the reason Congress reversed that decision was the hue and cry and outcry from across the land from motorcycle riders saying that you can't make me wear a helmet in a free society, and Congress eventually backed down. And so that was kind of an unpleasant experience with mandates. 
   Most States do have an individual mandate for automobile insurance, and they get good compliance with that. But it is interesting, one of the States with the best compliance has no individual mandate. So mandates don't always equal better compliance, and nowhere is that more evident than our current tax structure.     
   The Internal Revenue Service, which collects our taxes, there's a mandate, an individual mandate on every person who earns above a certain income level that you will pay taxes. You will pay a percentage of that in taxes and, in fact, everyone knows, it's no secret that if you don't pay that tax the punishment is going to be sure, it's going to be swift, and it's going to be extremely unpleasant. 
   We've got 15 percent of the country right now that lacks health insurance. Can we get improvement on that number by putting an individual mandate on? 
   Look at the case with the Internal Revenue Service. A severe mandate, severe penalties for noncompliance, and what is our compliance rate with the Federal income tax? It's about 85 percent. In other words, 15 percent don't comply. So this requires a good deal more study and a good deal more attention than just simply making that leap of faith and saying everyone needs insurance, therefore, there will be an individual mandate that everyone will have insurance. 
   Again, there were some problems with the cost structure when that was tried in Massachusetts to the point that the people in California, the State Senators in California, when they looked at that, said, maybe that's not the best idea for us. 
   Well, once we determine what the overall goal is, then perhaps our path will be a little bit easier. Certainly we want to democratize our health care in a way that preserves choice, makes certain that patient focus is the central theme, and we want to continue to promote innovation, because, remember, America is the country that is known for medical and scientific innovation. 
   Well, what about the concept of creating products that people actually want? Do we have a model? Do we have a template that we can look at to perhaps discuss that a little further? 
   And, in fact, we do. We passed a bill on the floor of this House, late in the night of November 22, 2003, called the Medicare Modernization Act which provided for a prescription drug benefit for citizens on Medicare who had not had one previously. It was called Medicare part D. 
   What's been the experience with Medicare part D? And I will stipulate  that there were people on both sides of the aisle in this House, there were people on the right who were critical of the Medicare part D program, and there was certainly no shortage of critics on the left who were critical of the Medicare part D program. 
   But as that program was instituted and has now been up and running for over 2 years, what lessons have we learned from Medicare part D? Well, we've learned that more than 90 percent of the persons who were eligible for that coverage have, in fact, enrolled. 
   Wait a minute. With the IRS, with severe and certain and sure penalties, we only get 85 percent compliance. With Medicare part D, by creating programs that had value to patients we've got 90 percent compliance, and 80 percent are happy with the program. If we go back to our friends at the IRS and say, what's the percentage of people that are happy with the way our tax system is administered, I don't think the number is 80 percent. 
   Consider that when we passed that bill on the floor of this House in the early morning hours of November 22, or actually I guess it started on the night of November 22. It was in the early morning of November 23 that the bill actually passed. Consider at that time we were told by the best actuaries at the Office of Management and Budget and the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services that it was going to cost about $37 a month for that coverage. What has the experience been? 
   The average plan costs less than $24 a month now, over 2 years into the program. 
   So this is a Federal program that relies on some competitive forces and relies on some participation of the private sector, and, in fact, has reined in some of the increase in spending that was feared to accompany this program by restoring the savings and incentives and leveraging competition and getting the buy-in from the patients themselves. What would be the more favorable trajectory? Force people into a program, difficult to do in a free society, and your compliance rate may not be exactly what you want it. Or would it be better to create a program of value that also relied a little bit on some competitive forces to keep that cost down. 
   Now, one of the great debates that was had on the floor of this House a year ago when the current majority party took over was the whole concept of reforming the part D benefit. And we don't hear much about that anymore. They weren't successful. One of the big proponents, or one of the big themes that was proposed was to cause or ask or demand that the Secretary of Health and Human Services negotiate drug prices with drug companies. I will just tell you from a lifetime in health care that HHS or CMS, they don't negotiate prices, they set prices. That's what they do. And many of us on my side of the aisle felt that that would be counterintuitive to the way this program was working, and in fact, it was working. 
   And, you know, Madam Speaker, and this is only partly in jest, but if we wanted to create a program where the head of a Cabinet agency, an agency secretary was to negotiate, maybe we ought to look to the Department of Education and ask the Secretary of Education to negotiate prices with college deans for the cost of higher education. That might be a better trajectory. I'm waiting to see that legislation come forward from the majority. 
   But, nevertheless, part D was left untouched last January. I'm grateful that it was, and I think again the numbers speak for themselves. This is a template. This is a model, this is a program that we perhaps should seek to duplicate because it created a condition of value, that consumers, that patients, that individuals wanted, and the compliance rates are high. The satisfaction rates are high. And, most importantly, seniors now are getting the medicines they need to keep them out of the hospitals and out of the doctors offices, and the overall cost for delivering Medicare, while it is still extremely high and still likely unsustainable over time, it has at least moderated or ameliorated over the last couple of years. In fact, the trustees' report from June of last year that came out said the bad news is Medicare is still going to be broke. The good news is it's going to go broke a year later than what we told you before. So seeing the beginnings of that cost savings and how that can change the practice of medicine and the delivery of health care in this country, that's a powerful anecdote for people to consider. 
   One of the things that we talked about is the speed at which information will come to us in the future. And there's no question that it's increasing every day. Most of us wear a Blackberry on our belt that has more computing power than the big computers on Apollo 13. It's astounding what's happened with computer power over the last two or three decades. And we hear a lot about the improvements of health information technology, the improvements in the platforms and what that improvement can mean to patient care, what it can mean to the practice of medicine, what it can mean to bringing down the cost of medicine. And, indeed, these are powerful influences. 
   Madam Speaker, I will tell you I haven't always been a big proponent of things like electronic health records. But as my experience on the ground in Louisiana in 2005 and early 2006 taught, getting to visit the medical records room at Charity Hospital shortly after it had been dewatered, I didn't know that dewatered was a verb, but, nevertheless, that's what the Corps of Engineers told us they did, and indeed, these flooded basements were now available for people to go into, the scene in the medical records room, the medical records that were damaged by the high water, damaged by the chemicals that circulated in that water, the black mold that was going on these paper records made it abundantly clear that these were records that could never provide useful information to a physician or a patient again. And how much more powerful would it have been to have that information available electronically, available to be transmitted from New Orleans to Dallas or Houston or wherever the person had had to travel to after that terrible storm and in the ensuing aftermath. It changed my thinking on electronic health records and electronic medical records. 
   But I will also tell you, I'm concerned about the Federal Government's ability to create the structure that people feel is necessary for that day to dawn where 
   electronic health records are, indeed, the standard. And I say that because when I came here 5 years ago, the discussion was, the Federal Government is going to create those platforms. It is going to create the software. It is going to create the type of information technology that private industry will then follow the leadership of the Federal Government. And, Madam Speaker, it's 5 years later and we still don't have it. 
   I did have the opportunity to speak to a CEO of one of the larger insurance companies in this country a few months ago. In fact, he talked at a symposium that was put on by Health Affairs downtown the first of November. He talked about within his company he has 45,000 employees, and fully 15 percent were employed in the development of software. Fifteen percent were employed in the development of that information technology architecture that we all talk about here on the floor of this House. In fact, he said if his software development portion was a stand-alone company, it would be one of the largest software development companies in the United States of America. And yet it is a single branch of a single private insurance company. And more to the point, they had developed algorithms, mostly from financial data, but they had tens of thousands of conditions, medical conditions that they had studied, again using purely financially data, and they had found some things that actually seemed clinically very relevant and certainly important for a company that might be interested in holding down the costs of administering health care. They found that if they paid for A and B, C was very likely to follow, and guess what? They were very likely to have to pay for D, and D cost a lot of money. The example given to me was of treating an individual with a heart attack. If that individual with a heart attack, if they did not anticipate an episode of depression following that individual's illness, it would very likely interfere with their rehabilitative efforts after they got out of the hospital, and so their likelihood of a long term return to health and productivity was curtailed.  And again, they found this by analyzing financial data, that if they put someone in the hospital for a heart attack, successfully treated them, discharged them, but did not anticipate depression, they were very likely at some point to pay for a hospitalization for depression, pay for treatment of another heart attack because they didn't comply with the regimen after they got out of the hospital. Very powerful information. And as someone who spent 25 years in clinical medicine, I will tell you, that's just exactly the type of information that would be extremely valuable to the clinician. 
   Well, what's the problem? The Federal Government said 5 years ago that it was going to develop the platforms that private industry would then take up and follow, and we haven't done it. And yet here's an individual from the private sector excitedly telling me about what his company is doing and the benefits that they've found. And you have to ask yourself, would it not perhaps be better for the Federal Government to allow that to happen, allow a company to develop that type of software, to develop those types of programs, to perhaps bring the clinicians now and begin to populate some of those fields with clinical data so that they could get even better and more accurate information. 
   And I asked that individual, well, what would it take? What would you need to see from us to allow this to work better for you? And, no great surprise, he talked about the things that we talk about on the floor of this House all the time. He said, it wouldn't hurt to have some regulatory reform. It wouldn't hurt to have some reform in what are known as the Stark laws that prevent hospitals and physicians from doing too much together for fear of some type of unjust enrichment. We would need some modifications to some of the privacy laws. And at the end of the day, too, we're going to need some safe harbors with liability. But if you provided us that, we could really take this to the next level. And we won't. And yet they're ready to make the investment and they're already making the investment, even without any Congressional activity, because they find it delivers value to their patients, to their physicians and, yes, to their bottom line because they're a profit-oriented company. 
   What is the difficulty with this body recognizing that that type of activity is going on all around us, and maybe we don't need to reinvent the wheel here on the floor of this House. Maybe we just need to wake up and look around at what is happening literally just across the street.     
   Now, some of the other things I want to talk about this evening before I run out of time, I have already alluded to the problem with supply and demand in our physician workforce. 
   Just a little over 2 years ago when he was finishing up his term as Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank, Alan Greenspan came and talked to a group of us one morning and the inevitable question about Medicare came up: How are we going to pay for it in the future? What is it going to cost? And the Chairman was concerned as well, but he did say, When the time comes, I think Congress will make the hard decisions that Congress is required to make so that the program will continue. He stopped, and then he went on to say, What concerns me more is will there be anyone there to deliver the care when you need it? 
   And we've already talked about some of the problems that are inherent in the formula by which Medicare reimburses physicians. 
   And one of the things I don't think I can stress enough on the floor of this House, because I don't think Members understand this, they think, well, that's just Medicare; that's just a part of the practice of medicine. That's not the whole story. Well, it is about half the story. Actually, the Federal Government does pay for about half of the health care expenditure in this country, if you go back to the first moments of this discussion. 
   But the other thing is that the rates by which Medicare reimburses for health care informed the rates that are set by the private insurance companies in this country. 
   So indirectly, we have a system of Federal price controls on medicine in this country today. And that's why, when we ratchet down the reimbursement rate for physicians on Medicare, and everyone in the body is quick to say, Oh, well, doctors make plenty of money. There's no need to worry about that. Remember, also, we are affecting not just Medicare, over which we have jurisdiction, but we are also affecting those reimbursements in the private sector as well because there is not a level playing field between provider and third-party payer. That's one of the problems inherent in our system now. People that go to the physician don't actually pay the physician; they pay the insurance companies. Same with the employers. They don't actually pay the physician; they pay the insurance company. 
   So that interposition of a third-party intermediary has created a good deal of the tensions and a good deal of the problems that we see today. 
   But we must not forget, that is a system that is there, that is a system that is in place, and when we make a decision about Medicare reimbursement rates, the ripple effect throughout the health care world in the reimbursement is significant, it's profound, and it is immediate. 
   One of the things that I feel very strongly about is that we do need to help people know what they're buying and what they're getting in health care. And one of the bills that I introduced early in the first session, the last year of this Congress, was H.R. 1666, which does deal with health care transparency. 
   It sets a floor of a level of transparency that should be available in every State. Many States have already undertaken this work. My home State of Texas has, and, in fact, patients can go to the Internet to a Web site. It's texaspricepoint.org, abbreviation txpricepoint.org, and they can get information about the hospitals in their county. Most of it is pricing information. Other information, other useful clinical information such as length of stay is also available. 
   At some point I expect there will also be the transparency about things like complication rates and infection rates, but it's still a work in progress. Other States have done similar activities. The State of Florida with its RxCompare. People can compare prices for different prescriptions, which has been useful for the people of Florida. 
   What the intent of H.R. 1666 was to not provide a Federal standard but at least to provide a level of transparency below which States should not go. And I would like to see this House of Representatives at some time take on this problem, because I think it is one that is extremely important. 
   And it does lead in to the other issue of how States and hospitals report complications, such as infections. And, again, I do think there is a role for Congress, I do think there is a role for the Federal Government, not so much in writing that legislation State-by-State, but providing the framework by which the reporting can occur to allow a Federal agency such as the Centers for Disease Control the ability then to aggregate that data and provide useful information back in real-time to the States and to the hospitals and to the physicians about infection rates in their particular areas. 
   Most epidemiologists will tell you the chance to measure is the chance to cure, or the chance to prevent, in the case of infections. And the metrics, just the activity of undergoing the metrics in those conditions, will oftentimes lead to improvements that were unanticipated at the beginning of that program of metrics. 
   Other legislation that's out there that deals with our physician workforce, H.R. 2583, H.R. 2584, both bills designed to affect individuals earlier in their career, in the health care workforce even prior to the entrance into medical school, the ability to provide a little bit more flexibility and a little bit more balance in the health profession scholarship, a little bit more flexibility in loan forgiveness and tax incentives for individuals who are going to medical school and will agree to practice in medically underserved areas in high-need specialties, and that is essentially primary care, also fields like OB/GYN and general surgery, to provide a little bit more flexibility to help incent people who are willing to make those types of decisions. And there is significant lifestyle decisions that they are making to undertake those type of careers.  
   And then there's another program to increase the number of primary care residencies that are available, again, in high-need areas, medically underserved areas for specialties that are in high demand, and, again, we are principally talking about the primary care specialties. 
   The barriers for entry for a medium-sized to moderate-sized hospital to start up a residency program are essentially costs. And some of those start-up costs in this legislation can be provided for in a loan. And there will be a loan that is paid back so that money will recycle, and the overall return to the taxpayer is increased that way. It will allow those hospitals the ability to set up a residency program where none has existed in the past. And I can think of many, many hospitals in my home State of Texas that could benefit from that type of activity. 
   And one of the things when people study how physician manpower is distributed, you can say a lot of things about doctors, but sometimes we are not very imaginative and we don't tend to go very far from where we trained, and there are some valid reasons for that. You get comfortable with referral patterns. People know you from your training program, so they're apt to refer to you. There's a degree of comfort there. And myself, for example, I went into practice less than 25 miles from where I did my training. A lot of doctors do follow that same sort of trajectory. 
   So if we can move the training programs into the areas that need the physicians, it may then follow that those physicians who train in those programs will end up staying in those medically underserved areas. 
   It's difficult for me to come to the floor of the House and talk about things related to health care and at least not mention some of the problems that we face with our medical justice system in this country. And I know there are lots of people out there with a lot of different ideas, caps on noneconomic damages, medical courts, early offer arbitration. The time has come for us to have a serious discussion to put some of the partisan differences aside, to put some of the special interests aside and have a rational discussion about how we can meaningfully impact that problem in this country. 
   My home State of Texas passed rather significant legislation 4 years ago dealing with the issue of caps on noneconomic damages. It was patterned after an earlier California law, the Medical Injury Reform Act of 1975. It was passed out in California, which put a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages. The Texas legislation was a little bit different. Instead of a single cap, there were three different caps, each capped at $250,000, but the aggregate was $750,000 compensation available for noneconomic damages. It has worked very well in my home State of Texas. 
   The year that I left practice to come to Congress, we were in crisis. We had gone from 17 medical liability insurers down to two. You certainly don't get much in the way of competition when you only have two insurers, and as a consequence, the price for those premiums was ever escalating. Now we have had many insurers come back to the State. They've come back to the State without an increase in premiums. And, in fact, Texas Medical Liability Trust, my last insurer of record, has returned, the last time I checked, 22 percent reductions and dividends back to their physicians that they cover. And that's significant because, remember, these premiums were going up by 10, 15, 20 or 25 percent year over year, and then on the past 4 years, they've not only stabilized, but they've come down 22 percent. 
   Small and medium-sized hospitals that self-insure for medical liability have had to put less in reserve against a bad judgment, and as a consequence, there has been more money to spend on just exactly the kinds of 
   things you want your community hospital to be spending its money on; things like nurses' salaries, capital improvement, investing in their capital infrastructure. 
   So it is a good news story from the State of Texas in terms of what we've been able to do with liability in my home State, and I'm not going to say that's the only answer, but I think it is a very good answer. I introduced legislation, H.R. 3509, to essentially provide the Texas legislation on a national scale. 
   In fact, we had a lot of talk about the budget earlier tonight. Last year, I offered that bill to the Budget Committee because the Congressional Budget Office scored it as nearly a $4 billion savings over 5 years. I realize that's not much when you are talking about a $3 trillion budget, but that's $4 billion. That's a significant savings, and I was willing to donate that to the Congress. 
   Take up that concept, write it into law in your budget resolution, and let's get something done to stabilize medical liability prices in this country, not so much for my home State of Texas, as we've already done it. But what about Pennsylvania? What about New Jersey? What about Maryland? What about New York? Maybe those areas could benefit from some of that same type of thinking as well. 
   Well, suffice it to say that that concept was not accepted, but I will extend the offer to members of the Budget Committee on both sides of the aisle that $4 billion in savings is still available to you. H.R. 3509 is the bill, and I will be happy to relinquish all ownership rights and donate that to the greater good of the United States Congress and the people of the United States. 
   One last piece of legislation that I want to mention, and it was introduced right at the end of the year, H.R. 4190. We talk on the floor of this House a lot about the problem of the uninsured. In fact, I've spent some time talking about it this evening. 
   H.R. 4190 isn't a new insurance program. It isn't a new expansion of Medicare or Medicaid or SCHIP. What H.R. 4190 does is take the concept of being uninsured and extend that privilege to everyone who serves in the United States Congress. H.R. 4190 would remove us, as Members of Congress, from the Federal Employee Health Benefits plan, provide us a voucher, if you will, to go out and purchase insurance on the open market. And I can't help but think, if we were put in the position of many Americans who are faced with those decisions about having to buy health care coverage on their own out in the open market, perhaps we would get a little more creative about the unequal treatment from the Tax Code for employer-derived insurance versus an individually owned policy. Perhaps we would get a little bit more creative about providing a little more flexibility in a health savings account. 
   Perhaps we would get a little bit more flexible even if we are of the mindset that said, Well, we are going to extend our single-payer health care to more and more people. Well, what if Members of Congress had the same problem finding a doctor that your senior citizens at home tonight are having when they call up the doctor they've seen all of their lives and are told, Sorry, we can't take any more Medicare patients? 
   Well, H.R. 4190 is an intriguing concept. I haven't had much interest as far as cosponsorship is concerned, but it's still out there. It's still available, and I welcome Members from both sides of the aisle to think about that, to look at that, and see if we couldn't forge a common bond and a good-faith effort to really do something for the people who lack insurance coverage in this country or the people who are fearful that they will lose their insurance company if their job changes or their financial situation changes. 
   There's a lot of things out there on the horizon, Madam Speaker. There is a lot of good that this Congress can do. I think it is important for me to make the point one last time that medicine is evolving in a big way. It's going to change significantly in our lifetime.     
   Congress can participate in that evolution, and actually participate and be a force for good if we're only willing to pick up and take on the work that the American people have sent us here to do. 
   Thank you, Madam Speaker, for your indulgence. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (DO-NOT-CALL REGISTRY FEE EXTENSION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I thank both the chairman and the ranking member for bringing this bill to the floor. 
   Madam Speaker, as pointed out, this has been one of the most popular pieces of legislation that we could pass certainly during my short tenure in Congress. And, Madam Speaker, I would only point out that with a 10 percent approval rating, it is incumbent upon us to continue to pass legislation that is indeed popular. 
   I am an original cosponsor of the Do-Not-Call Registry Fee Extension Act, and as has been pointed out, this bill will extend the Federal Trade Commission's authority to collect fees and to administer and force the do-not-call registry. This registry is popular. This registry's effect has been profound. 
   Since the creation of this registry, as we heard testimony in our committee as we worked on the bill earlier this year, over 145 million telephone numbers have been registered. And as we heard from Ranking Member Stearns a little while ago, that number is now up to 150 million telephone numbers. 
   As the Director of the Federal Trade Commission, Linda Parnes, eloquently stated in her testimony before the Energy and Commerce Committee last October, the do-not-call registry ``helps to restore the sanctity of the American dinner hour.'' 
   While I firmly believe in a free market and I believe that businesses should be able to and should be responsible for formulating their own business plans and business practices, I also believe that Americans have a right to privacy. People should be able to have the option of whether or not they want to receive telephone calls from telemarketers in the privacy of their homes. Thanks to the do-not-call registry, Americans can sign up and they are afforded this decision and this discretion. 
   To keep the registry working in the future, it is imperative that we act  swiftly and pass this important legislation to further extend the protection of privacy for all Americans. As Commissioner Parnes pointed out, let's help restore the sanctity of the American dinner hour once and for all. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - August 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding me this time. I regret that it is necessary for me to come down and talk during the time for general debate because this is an amendment that should have been made in order by the Rules Committee, and I frankly do not understand when it so significantly affects food safety and would have been a perfecting amendment on the underlying bill, I frankly do not understand the inattention of the Rules Committee to this important issue. 
   We hear time and again the United States being besieged with dangerous food from certain countries. According to testimony before the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations on July 17, 2007, former FDA Associate Commissioner William Hubbard testified that in 1999 the FDA drafted a legislative proposal that would have given the Food and Drug Administration authority to require certain foreign countries to take more responsibility for the foods that they send into this country. 
   The agency proposal would have allowed the FDA to embargo a given food from a given country if there were repeated instances of that food being found contaminated when it arrived in the United States. Countries that send safe food, they have no reason to be concerned. They would be unaffected. But countries that demonstrated a pattern of disregard of United States safety standards would have to increase their oversight of foods exported from their country. Have we heard of any examples of that in the past 6 months? 
   Unfortunately, Congress did not accept the recommendation, and the situation with some imported foods from some countries has only gotten worse. On page 96 of the committee report for H.R. 3161, it states that ``the Committee believes that the Food and Drug Administration is failing to do what is needed to ensure the safety of our food supply.'' Furthermore, ``the Committee directs the Food and Drug Administration to develop a performance plan that establishes measurable benchmarks for concrete improvements in the performance of food safety missions.'' 
   In formulating the plan, the FDA is to look at the process for reviewing food safety systems in countries that export to the United States, and that these proposals are not dissimilar to measures the Food and Drug Administration has proposed in the past or may be considering currently. 
   On page 97, the committee report states that ``the Committee provides for an additional $7 million for increased activities to protect the safety of imported foods.'' 
   My amendment would not have allocated any new funds to the FDA. But instead, it seeks to direct a portion of these funds already allocated towards increased activities to protect the safety of imported foods and on formulating an embargo plan. This plan would allow the FDA to prohibit a specified food from a specified country from entering into the United States if there were repeated instances that that food was found contaminated when it arrived in the United States. 
   Again I submit, we have heard several news report over the last 6 months where exactly this scenario has played out. We have to stop them from sending harmful food into our country. This would have been a good amendment, and I don't understand why it was not taken up by the Rules Committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (MEDICARE PART D PRESCRIPTION DRUG PROGRAM -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the Chair for the recognition and I thank the gentleman from Georgia yielding. I do want to thank the gentleman from Georgia for taking an extra minute to talk about the issues that concluded the last hour. I think it was important, and it needed to be done, and the American people do need to hear that debate as well. 
   In the process of the first 100 hours, and I don't know where we are now, in my count it is about 44 hours into it, but it is a funny kind of timekeeping. We started this Special Order hour at about 6:00 in the evening, that is 5:00 back home in Texas. That means we will conclude the House business for the day in 2 hours; that is 7:00 back in Texas. 
   That is not really an onerous work schedule that we are under. We have just managed to spread it out, do a little less work and spread it out over more days to look like we are doing more. 
   But my purpose here this evening is to offer, really, a public service, a little bit of education, a little bit of history. Because many Members in the House are new, they were not here when we went through the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003. In fact, some of this story goes back even before Dr. Gingrey and I started here in 2003. 
   So let us take a step back to just a little while earlier in the decade and visit with one of the President's press releases when they talked about his vision for a new Medicare prescription drug benefit. It rolled out with a good deal of fanfare one day, that the benefit would be voluntary, accessible to all beneficiaries, designed to provide meaningful protection and bargaining power for seniors, affordable to all beneficiaries for the program and administered using competitive purchasing techniques consistent with broader Medicare reform. 
   That was the message that the President delivered at that time to the Senate to deal with major Medicare reform to provide a prescription drug benefit. 
   Let us go over it again, because it is important. Voluntary Medicare beneficiaries who now have dependable, affordable coverage should have the option of keeping that coverage, accessible to all beneficiaries. All seniors and individuals with disabilities, including those in traditional Medicare, should have access to a reliable benefit, designed to give beneficiaries meaningful protection and bargaining power. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the distinguished Republican leader for yielding. 
   Mr. Speaker, here we are back again, not quite two years from when we had this debate the last time, and a good deal has changed in the world of science over that 2-year time interval. Unfortunately, the bill that we have before us has not significantly changed. 
   We have already heard mention of the amniotic fluid stem cells that are now available to open a broad new area of research. Have we had one hearing in our committee, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, of which the distinguished chairman spoke to us this morning? I think the American people would welcome us having a hearing to understand more about this promising new area of science. As it stands today, we will simply have to debate the bill on the merits of information that is well over 2 years old, and I think that is unfortunate. 
   Mr. Speaker, regenerative medicine, the words themselves, speaks to great hope among the healer and patient alike that some of the most tragic of human afflictions may one day find relief. This concept is powerful. It is a powerful lure to participants on both sides of this debate. And I would stress, Mr. Speaker, that on both sides of this debate are people of good character and good will. We simply disagree about a single point. As we proceed with today's debate on H.R. 3, I would like to ask my colleagues whether there is any common ground by which the two sides may seek resolution of this conflict. 
   The recent findings of the pleuripotent epithelial cells, an undifferentiated mesenchymal cell that is present in all amniotic fluid at all stages of fetal development, demonstrates how quickly the world has changed since we last held this debate less than a year ago. Mr. Speaker, we don't know, we don't know what the mesenchymal cell will do if it is extracted at 11 weeks versus 40 weeks. Wouldn't it be nice to have the researcher before our committee and be able to ask those questions so we may make the best possible judgment for the American people? 
   Well, those individuals, the researchers at the Institute for Regenerative Medicine at Wake Forest, have determined these cells they have extracted from amniotic fluid can adapt and form other types of tissue, such as brain, muscle, and skeletal cells, and remain stable for years and not form tumors into those in whom they are implanted. 
   That is a pretty powerful piece of information, Mr. Speaker. If I were given the choice of a stem cell that might cure an affliction but one might cause a tumor and the other wouldn't, I think that is information I would like to have before I made that decision. 
   Clearly, this new technology, as it is further developed, may well prove a way toward that path of regenerative medicine without sacrificing nascent human life and in fact sacrificing human dignity. 
   For almost a decade, clinicians have used what is called preimplantation genetics, where a single cell is taken from an early gestation, the 8-cell blastocyst, a single cell is taken through micromanipulative techniques without causing harm to the donor embryo. This single cell is then used for genetic studies. 
   I have had patients in my practice who have undergone preimplantation genetics. But this same procedure could be used to create new embryonic stem cell lines without sacrificing human life and without endangering fundamental human dignity. This technique was proposed by Mr. Bartlett in the last Congress. It was brought up under suspension, and, unfortunately, did not pass. But I believe this Congress should be considering this again as a means towards achieving that elusive common ground between the two sides. 
   As we have witnessed, science moves faster than we do here in the United States Congress. At the very least we should strive to defend life and attempt to establish the ethical boundaries of this potentially lifesaving research. 
   Consider the words spoken by President Kennedy at his inaugural almost half a century ago: ``Let both sides seek to invoke the wonders of science instead of its terrors.'' H.R. 3 does not strike this balance and does not allow us to invoke the wonders of science. Instead, it offers a very vague outline posing as ethical guidelines but is in no such way an ethical guideline; and, unfortunately, as a consequence, human dignity is discarded by the wayside. 
   We can do better, and we should do better. Instead, we offer false promises to those that suffer from some of the most debilitating chronic conditions and we fail to protect what is human life and erode the concept of humanity. 
   Mr. Speaker, again, let me express my regret that we are not holding hearings in arguably what is the most powerful committee in this United States Congress, and that is the Committee on Energy and Commerce, so that we may fully evaluate this area of science. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 30 seconds. 
   I would point out in response to one of the previous speakers that embryonic stem cell research has actually been present on the animal model for over 25 years. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is now my great pleasure to yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Utah (Mr. Bishop). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 15 seconds to just mention it is my sincere regret after hearing the remarks of the Representative from Illinois who just spoke that we were not allowed the alternative of fully vetting this in a committee hearing. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Bartlett).     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, we have heard a lot of discussion today, and a lot of it good on both sides. I again remain disappointed we were not allowed in our committee to fully investigate and understand some of the new issues that surround this science. 
   I think it is extremely important to know that nothing that we have done so far would preclude the cloning of human tissue, and that is something that needs to be addressed.     
   So for that, I have asked Dr. DAVE WELDON to share some of his thoughts with us on this subject. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - June 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor tonight for what time is left to us to talk a little bit about health care. I do try to do that every week because this is such an important issue that faces our country, and over the next 18 to 24 months we are going to see perhaps some significant changes proposed and some, in fact, enacted in the Nation's health care system. 
   Mr. Speaker, I wanted to draw your attention, today there was an excellent piece written in today's Wall Street Journal. This piece was on the editorial page, it was written by Dr. Robert A. Swerlick. It is entitled, ``Our Soviet Health System.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, Dr. Swerlick does such a good job of encapsulating a lot of the issues that I have been talking about here over the past several weeks and I just wanted to share a couple of quotes with you from his article as we get started. He is talking about the imbalance between supply and demand. He became aware of it when he found no trouble finding a veterinarian for his pet, but found difficulty finding a pediatric endocrinologist for a diabetic child. And the reason for the imbalance, Mr. Speaker, according to Dr. Swerlick, is because of some of the distortions of the marketplace and the inaccurate signals delivered to the marketplace because of our manipulation of those signals and of those market forces with the pricing structure we have in our Medicare system. 
   I am quoting from the article from today, and it says, ``The roots of the problem lie in the use of the administrative pricing structures in medicine. The way prices are set in health care already distorts the appropriate allocation of efforts and resources in health care. Unfortunately, many of the suggested reforms of our health care system, including the various plans for universal care or universal insurance or a single payer's system that various policy makers espouse, rest on the same unsound foundations and will produce more of the same.'' Going on and continuing to quote, ``The essential problem is this; the pricing of medical care in this country is either directly or indirectly dictated by Medicare. And Medicare uses an administrative formula which calculates appropriate prices based upon imperfect estimates and fudge factors rather than independently calculate prices, private insurers'', and Mr. Speaker, this is key, and many House Members don't realize this, let me slow down and say this again. ``Rather than independently calculate prices, private insurers in this country almost universally use Medicare prices as a framework to negotiate payments, generally setting payments for services as a percentage of the Medicare fee structure.'' 
   Then further on into the article, again quoting, ``Unlike prices set on the market, errors in this system are not self-correcting.'' That is, we make a mistake in our policy meetings, in our committee hearings, we make a mistake in setting the actual value to a medical service, and that mistake never gets corrected by market forces. It is insulated, it is anesthetized from market forces, and the consequence is it gets worse over time. And then we compound the error when we try to fix things at the committee level or at the level of the Federal agency. 
   One last thing that I would like to point out that the article does state so succinctly. Markets may not get all the prices exactly correct all of the time, but they are capable of self-correction, a capacity that has yet to be demonstrated by administrative pricing. 
   Again, a very worthwhile article. And I commend it, Mr. Speaker, to you. And perhaps some of our colleagues will also be interested in that article as well because I think it very succinctly sums up a lot of the things that I have been pointing out over the past several weeks here. 
   Mr. Speaker, in the few remaining minutes that I have left, I wanted to talk just a little bit about the physician workforce of the future, because that is something we have to focus on as we have this health care debate. A lot of times I worry we are getting the cart before the horse. Here is a cover of the Texas Medical Association's professional magazine back in my home State of Texas. Texas Medicine last March devoted a lot of the issue to the concept of running out of doctors. As a consequence, I am introducing three physician workforce bills tomorrow that will deal with the person perhaps thinking about a career in medicine, the young physician just starting out in either medical school or residency, and then finally, a third bill to deal with the iniquities in the Medicare pricing system that I just referenced in the article of today's Wall Street Journal. 
   The physician workforce crisis has to be approached on several fronts. The issue of medical liability is one that we need to take on, and we need to be quite serious about that. But when we look at perhaps the largest group of doctors that we may not have in the very near future because of the things we are doing in our Medicare pricing schedule, these are the areas where we really need to concentrate. Baby boomers are going to retire, they are going to get older. Demand for services are going to go nowhere but up. If the physician workforce continues its downward trend, as it is doing year over year, we may not be talking any longer about funding a Medicare program, we may be talking about why there is no one there to take care of seniors. 
   Year after year reduction in reimbursement plans from the Center of Medicaid and Medicare Services to physicians for services they provide for  their Medicare patients. This is wrong. It is not a question of doctors wanting to make more money, it's about a stabilized repayment for services already rendered. And it isn't affecting just doctors, it is affecting patients every day. It becomes a real crisis of access. Not a week goes by that I don't get a letter or a fax from some physician who says, you know what? I've just had enough and I am going to retire early, or I am no longer going to see Medicare patients in my practice, or I am going to restrict the procedures that I offer to Medicare patients. Unfortunately, I know this is happening because I saw it in the hospital environment before I left practice to come to Congress a few years ago. And I hear it in virtually every town hall that I do back in my district. Congressman, how come on Medicare, you turn 65 and you've got to change doctors? The answer is because their doctor found it no longer economically viable to continue to see Medicare patients because they weren't able to cover the cost of delivering the care, they weren't able to cover the cost of providing the care. 
   Medicare payments to physicians are modified annually using a formula called the Sustainable Growth Rate. I won't bare you with the intricacies of that formula tonight, I may do that at some other time. But because of flaws in the process, physicians get a mandated fee cut every year, year over year for several years to come. If no long-term congressional action is implemented, the SGR will continue to mandate fee cuts. Unlike hospital reimbursement rates, unlike reimbursement rates to HMOs or drug companies, those closely follow the cost of living index, but the physician's formula does not. In fact, Medicare payments to physicians cover only about 65 percent of the actual cost of providing the services. Can you imagine, Mr. Speaker, any industry or company that would continue in business if they received only 65 percent of what it cost to cover the care? Currently, the SGR links physician payment updates to the gross domestic product, which has no bearing in reality as to what it costs to deliver those services. 
   The problem is repeal of the SGR is very costly. The Congressional Budget Office currently scores that at about $280 billion. There are ways to approach this. There are short term and long-term ways. And we need to have the political courage, we need to have the political will to do the things necessary to ensure that we do repeal the SGR and the formula and pay doctors on a more rational Medicare economic index such as hospitals are paid that recognizes the increase and cost of delivering care. All of this information is technicomplex and it is even boring to listen to, but it is an incredibly important story for our country. It is a story of how the most advanced, most innovative and most appreciated health care system in the world needs a little help. 
   The end of this story should read ``happily ever after,'' but I am not sure we can reach that conclusion given where we are today. The last chapter should read ``a privatized industry leads to a healthy ending.'' 
   As I stated in the beginning, before I began this talk, we are in a debate that will forever change our health care system. We must understand what is working in our system and what is not. We cannot delay making changes and bringing health care into the 21st century. The only way that we can have this to work is to allow the private sector to lay the foundation for improvements. The pillars of this health care system we have must be rooted in the bedrock of a thriving public sector and not the shaky ground of a public system that has proven costly and inefficient in other countries and in fact in our own back yard. Again, I reference the article from today where the errors are self-perpetuating in the system and market forces are never allowed to correct those errors. 
   We must devote our work in Congress to building a stronger private sector in health care. History has proven this to be the tried and true method. We can bring down the number of insured, we can increase patient access, and we can stabilize the physician workforce, modernize our technology, and bring transparency to the system. All of these things are within our grasp if we have the foresight, the determination, the courage and the political will to get things done. 
   Thank you, Mr. Speaker, for your indulgence. The day is concluded, and I will yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chairman, this is a very simple amendment. The Secure Flight offset amendment will reduce the Department of Homeland Security Office of Under Secretary for Management by $15 million and increase the Transportation Threat Assessment account by $15 million. 
   The Department of Homeland Security Under Secretary for Management oversees the Audit Liaison Office at the Department of Homeland Security. This liaison office helps to oversee the Department's efforts to coordinate with the Government Accountability Office, the Office of Inspector General, and DHS component agencies. 
   The liaison officers have not been meeting the goal for which they were first funded, that is, to keep the agencies updated and to avoid duplication, to avoid gaps and to avoid inefficiency. The liaison officers have not been successful in providing a centralized and coordinated process. Therefore, this amendment reduces funding for this office by $15 million and increases the funding for the Transportation Threat Assessment Act by $15 million. 
   The funding would be used by the Transportation Security Administration to further the development of the passenger pre-screening program called Secure Flight. When fully implemented, Secure Flight will be able to more effectively compare passenger information to information that is contained within the Federal terrorist watch list. 
   Secure Flight will decrease the chance for compromised watch list data by centralizing the use of comprehensive watch lists. It will further provide earlier identification of potential threats, allowing for expedited notification of law enforcement and threat management. And, finally, it will offer consistent application of an expedited and integrated redress process for passengers who have been misidentified as a threat. 
   Secure Flight is a critical part of the TSA's overall strategy to secure the Nation's commercial air transportation system and deserves more money to be fully implemented as soon as possible. It will give cleaner and more efficient data to our air carriers. 
   Constituents throughout our country, certainly constituents in my district, have contacted my office because they have been misidentified by the Transportation Security Administration, and they simply cannot be removed from the watch list. Increasing the Secure Flight initiative would help that process, and it is time we did increase the funding for that. 
   Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chairman, I would just simply say this is a good amendment. I would encourage my colleagues to vote in favor of this. As someone who travels frequently, I want this program to be upfunded and running well. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Burgess). 
   The question was taken; and the Acting Chairman announced that the noes appeared to have it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SIMPLIFYING THE TAX CODE -- (House of Representatives - March 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. And I thank the Speaker. 
   Madam Speaker, it has been said over and over again that nothing in this life is certain except death and taxes. I was a practicing physician for over 25 years back in Texas and I've got to tell you, sometimes death seems a little less complicated than our Tax Code. The complexity of the Tax Code has done nothing but grow since the Federal income tax was first introduced in this body in 1913. 
   When it was first created, the Tax Code was 400 pages. This year, it is 67,506 pages, nearly a 17,000 percent increase, pretty typical of government math. Because I'm a visual person, I would like to show you what the statistics look like. 
   Here is a picture from the ``CCH Standard Federal Tax Reporter'' illustrating the exponential increase in the Tax Code. What this demonstrates, Madam Speaker, is way back here in 1913, we had one little 400-page book that was the Federal Tax Code, and then we fast forward to 2007 and 2008 and you see the number of pages now that fill the bookshelf, making the complexity of the code something that the average person, quite honestly just does not understand. 
   Madam Speaker, remember that one of the fundamental tenets of the American legal system, including the tax system, is that ignorance of the law is no excuse. Therefore, in theory, every single American who is merely trying to comply with the Tax Code and file their taxes by April 15 is supposed to be familiar with all of the 67,000 some odd pages that are contained within the Tax Code which comprise the tax rules. 
   Now, I don't know if my tax preparer back home knows all of the 67,506 pages and you have to wonder about other people in other congressional districts. What about the small business owner? What about the single mom who is just struggling to get by? How are they ever going to know all of the regulations contained within 67,506 pages of the U.S. Tax Code? 
   The complexity of the Tax Code is a result of countless deductions and exemptions aimed at steering a social agenda, quite honestly, when it's supposed to be a Tax Code. That's one of the fundamental problems with our tax system, is that we try to enforce social policy through the Tax Code rather than seeing the Tax Code simply as a vehicle for collecting those revenues that the government has to collect in order to run. Special interest groups run rampant through every single page of that 67,000 pages. Anytime Congress wants to punish a special interest group or reward another, Congress adds a new credit or a new law to the mammoth Tax Code. The result is a Federal law fraught with opportunities for avoiding taxes and loopholes to be exploited at the expense of fellow Americans. Everyone is familiar with the problems inherent in our convoluted Tax Code, and criticizing the American Tax Code is as American as apple pie and baseball, and for good reason. 
   Let me share just a few interesting facts on why we need fundamental tax reform. Each year, Americans spend 6.5 billion hours preparing their tax forms, and businesses spend 800 million hours complying with the Tax Code. The cost of compliance for Federal taxpayers filling out returns and related chores was $265 billion in 2005. The average taxpayer pays over $1,800 per household in compliance costs. In other words, that taxpayer works a little over a week just to pay for the cost of preparing his or her taxes for that year. 
   A study was done back in 1998 when the forms in 1998 were less complicated than they are 10 years later, and it surveyed 46 tax experts. Each expert came up with 46 different answers when determining tax liability. Forty-six preparers, each given the same set of data, 46 different figures to determine tax liability. The tax calculations themselves ranged some $34,000 to $68,000, almost a doubling of the original estimated amount. 
   The Tax Foundation prepared the following information that actually I think will be of interest to this body: 
   In the year 2007, a person spent 79 days working to pay for their Federal taxes and 41 days on State and local taxes for a grand total of 120 days. That's more than health care, more than housing, more than transportation. And, honestly, you can see an immediate return on those categories. It's a little bit more difficult to see the tangible return on Federal tax dollars, albeit those are the moneys that are required to have the Federal Government run. But when you look at the bite that taxes take out of the average income compared with all of the other expenditures, it truly is significant. 
   We all complain about paying our taxes. The fact is if the system was fair and simple, it would be a lot easier to take. Americans don't mind paying for roads. They pay for a strong defense. They pay for health care for your grandmother. It's the fact that one family makes exactly the same amount as the family next door, but they're forced to pay a higher share of the tax burden. The Declaration of Independence says all men are created equal, and that should apply to the tax burden as well. 
   Now, let me just show you a breakdown by congressional district. Most Members of Congress should be interested in this chart, also produced by the Tax Foundation. In 2004, the Tax Foundation ranked Federal individual income tax burden by congressional district. My district, the 26th District of Texas, falls here somewhere in the middle, and it is highlighted in yellow so its easy for me to see, but it compares the ranking of Federal income tax burden as a percentage of the adjusted gross income versus the ranking of the average income tax liability per return. In other words, with identical incomes, we have some States with a much higher burden and some States with a much lower burden. 
   Now that is an average across the population, so clearly there will be some differences, but we see New York represented in both the upper and the lower categories. We see California likewise represented in both the upper and the lower categories. So it's not inconceivable that the discrepancy should not be that large; but, nevertheless, because of the complexity of the Tax Code, that's one of the things we're left with. 
   435 Members of Congress and here is the data from the top seven compared to the bottom seven. You can definitely see varying tax liabilities throughout the country. Again, my district ranked 139th in regards to the Federal income tax burden as a percentage of gross income, but ranked only 127 as the average income tax liability per return. Again, that's more of the Federal Government's math for you. 
   And yet another aspect of complying with our Tax Code. Time is precious. We often don't have enough of it for personal things, those mundane things like earning a living, raising your family, spending time with your friends, and then there's the dollars-and-cents side of the equation where, in fact, time is money and valuable resources are misspent navigating tax law instead of spent growing the economy and creating jobs. Taken together, this is a strong prescription for real change in our Tax Code. 
   We know what works when it comes to changing the Tax Code because we got a glimpse of it when during Ronald Reagan's administration he cut the Tax Code in half in 1986. As a result of that reform, the economy grew, revenues increased and jobs were created. I can't think of a better prescription for our slowing economy today than replicating the reform of the Tax Code on an even greater scale. 
   So what should we do? The prescription is fairly simple. Flatten the tax, broaden the base and shift the burden away from families and small businesses. Simplify the Tax Code and make it easier for individuals and businesses to file their taxes and pay their fair share. Even the National Taxpayer Advocate, Nina Olsen, stated simplify the Tax Code as one of her recommendations in the 2007 Annual Report to Congress:  
   ``The complexity of the code increases the likelihood that honest taxpayers will make inadvertent mistakes, creates opportunities for taxpayers to avoid paying their fair share of taxes, and makes it difficult for the Internal Revenue Service to administer the tax system. Simplifying the tax law could improve the audit process and allow less taxpayer burden.''     
   Pretty simple stuff. Pretty straightforward. If the National Taxpayer Advocate thinks it is best for our constituents if we simplify the system, it would make sense that Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle would agree with this sentiment and work toward this goal. 
   Now, this next data I need to credit to some polling done by American Solutions. They conducted a nationwide poll on six different topics, with one being taxes and jobs. This poll crossed gender, ethnicity, economic and party lines, and they discovered the following opinions in America. Under taxes and jobs, 69 percent think the Federal income tax system is unfair. Seventy percent favor tax incentives for companies who keep their headquarters in the United States of America. What a great concept. Eight-two percent think the option of a single rate system would give taxpayers the convenience of filing their taxes with just a single sheet of paper. Pretty powerful stuff. Eight-two percent want to be able to file on a single sheet of paper. 
   Madam Speaker, it sounds to me as if America has spoken fairly clearly on this subject, and the evidence is that we do need real change in our tax system. The encouraging news is that we have a practical and effective blueprint for making this real change across-the-board. The blueprint is called the flat tax. 
   In 1981, Robert Hall and Alvin Rabushka proposed a new and radically simple structure that would transform the Internal Revenue System and our economy by creating a single rate of taxation for all Americans. Today, several States have implemented a single rate tax structure for their State income taxes and from Utah to Massachusetts, citizens are seeing the benefit. 
   In Colorado, a single rate generated so much income, so much revenue, that lawmakers actually reduced the rate 10 years after its implementation. In the State of Indiana, the economy boomed after a single rate went into effect in 2003, and in that time corporate income tax receipts have risen 250 percent. 
   In 1981, a simple concept put forth by Robert Hall and Alvin Rabushka, revisited in 1995 by my predecessor in this body, former majority leader Dick Armey, and, most recently, within the last couple of years, a book published by Steven Forbes on the flat tax revolution. All of those authors, all of those authors calling for the same type of reform in our Tax Code, to allow it to be flatter, fairer and simpler. 
   Now we have got several Members of Congress who are actually working on the problem. Certainly it is something that I remain focused on. Congressman David Dreier from California, the ranking member on the Rules Committee, and Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the ranking member on the Budget Committee, are all working to establish the single tax rate structure for the United States. Members are working on it in the other body as well. Each of us have our own ideas. The legislation proposed is a little bit different, but it all has at the center of it the concept that you should be able to file your taxes on a single form at a much flatter rate that will be fairer across-the-board, and, in fact, evidence has shown that it will actually increase revenue. 
   The bill that I introduced actually two Congresses ago, and I have continued to introduce it every year, H.R. 1040, it makes it easy to remember the number, H.R. 1040 allows for a person to opt in to a flat tax. They can't go back and forth from the old IRS code and the flat tax, but if they elect to go into the flat tax, they may do so. 
   If quite honestly they have constructed their family or business finances such that they have been trying to utilize the code to maximize their effectiveness, no one is going to require them to go into the flat tax. They may stay under the old IRS code. But for a lot of people like myself, regardless of whether I would come up better or worse under the flat tax, just to give up that shoe box full of receipts every year, to give up that quality time spent with my accountant every year, to give up that $1,800 or $2,500 that I spend every year on tax preparation, and I promise you, mine are not that complicated, I would gladly give that up to be able to simply file my taxes on a single page form, or, better yet, populate a field on a computer screen on the Internet, click a mouse, send it in, and be done with it for the year. 
   Now, we all may not agree on just a single rate. I have mentioned some other individuals that have other bills, and they do have different approaches. We may not all agree on whether it should be a single rate or two rates, as it was back when Ronald Reagan simplified the Tax Code. We may prefer a tax method that does allow for deductions for mortgages or charitable contributions. But regardless, regardless, each of them embodies the fundamental principle that each American should bear the burden of taxation equally and at the lowest rate possible; we think everyone should be able to do their own taxes without the help of a professional and should be confident that people who earn the same income pay the same taxes. 
   Madam Speaker, just as an aside, I remember back in the year 1993, I was just a regular guy working in a medical practice back home in Texas. It just so happened that that year, the President of the United States and myself had an almost identical income reported. And yet when you calculated what I paid as a percentage of income, it was in excess of 30 percent. When you calculated what the other individual paid, it was around 20 percent. So why the discrepancy? With the same amount of earned income, why should there be such a vast difference in the taxes owed and the taxes paid? That is really what got me to thinking about this subject, many, many years ago. 
   We all remember when the Tax Code was changed in 1993. It was changed retroactively so that we got both the rich and the dead involved in paying additional taxes. But it really got me focused. Then in 1995 when Congressman Armey published his book on the flat tax, I read it, I became a believer, and have continued to study the issue and have continued to talk about the issue. And this is the time of year to have these types of talks, because I do think it is important, regardless of which party is in power, that we take seriously the will of the American people. Eight-two percent, 82 percent, want to be able to fill out a single page form and be done with their taxes. 
   Just by way of comparison, according to the Wall Street Journal, citing a blog off the National Taxpayers Union website, there are about 1.2 million or more professional tax preparers during tax season, which equals roughly the population of Hawaii. There are 836,000 doctors in the United States. As a physician, I think that there is something a little askew with this number, that we require half again as many tax preparers in the country as we do physicians. Healers shouldn't be outnumbered by tax preparers. The government math stuff is starting to scare me, and really should start to scare a lot of Americans. 
   Also, according to the Wall Street Journal, more than half of the individual taxpayers now use a paid preparer for their income tax return. I do myself. Mine is not that complicated, but I don't dare go into the process without a professional guiding me, lest someone at some point say, hey, you made a mistake. I want a professional with me if I had to go in to justify what those numbers read on the form. 
   We actually anticipate the number of people using a paid preparer to increase this year. In 1960, less than a fifth of taxpayers used preparers. More than half now. Less than a fifth, less than 20 percent, back in 1960. In 2005, one of the most famous tax preparation companies garnered $2.4 billion in revenue from the United States in tax preparation, up from $841 million 10 years before in 1996. Pretty astounding. Pretty astounding figures when you stop and think about it. 
   Now, I respect and I fully appreciate everything that my tax preparer does for me, what my accountant does for me, what tax preparation companies do, and I think it is a shame that Congress has created a system that is so complicated that more than half of the  public feel a need to pay someone, to pay someone else, just to figure out how much they owe for their tax liability. The system doesn't have to be that complicated. 
   Now, bear with me, if you would, through one last poster, and this really sums it up. A faster, flatter, fairer tax structure, let me show you how it works. It is pretty simple. 
   Here we go. You put in a little bit of information, like your name; a little bit of identification data, income, personal exemptions, married filing jointly, single head of household; number of dependents. You add up your deductions. Taxable income is line 1 minus line 3. One subtraction equation on the form. And then calculate the amount of tax owed on this particular form, calculate by multiplying line 4 by 0.19. The tax is already withheld. Your tax refund you are owed or the taxes you are to pay. What did that take? According to the clock up there, a little less than 30 seconds. Thirty seconds, and your income taxes are done. 
   Now, in all honesty, I haven't started my taxes this year. Please don't tell my accountant. But I will spend the better part of a Saturday afternoon, probably this coming Saturday, going to all those places in the house where I have secreted away little receipts and things that I knew I would need when it came time to prepare my taxes. I will gather all of this stuff together and put it in a form that is presentable, take another half day and spend that with my accountant. He will spend several weeks churning it through whatever computer program that he uses. And then right before midnight on April 15th, I will get my tax form to sign, and I will send it in and I will either pay a little in taxes or I will get a little bit of refund. 
   But look at this. Thirty seconds. Your name, a little bit of identification data, a couple of numbers that are easy to obtain, and taxes are already withheld, your tax liability or your tax refund. No expensive tax attorney bills. No more hours of stressful research trying to figure out whether your military service or your marital status will adversely affect your return. No more headaches trying to determine where the estimated tax payments go. No more Congress taking one special interest group over the other trying to create social good works through the Tax Code. Instead, just a very simple and straightforward system. And remember that number: 82 percent of Americans want something simple like this for their tax preparation. 
   Now, in my opinion a single tax rate structure would eliminate taxes on capital gains, eliminate taxes on dividends and taxes on savings. You know, we always hear that our savings rate in this country is really pretty low, and that in fact is one of the things that may be behind some of the financial crisis that we find ourself in now. 
   I will just tell you there was a time when I was in business for myself that I thought the prudent thing to do would be to hold three months, three months, of operating capital in some easily convertible security, like a CD, something that was fairly liquid, earn a little bit of interest along the way, and have that money in case the dire wolf was ever at the door and I needed those funds to continue to operate my business. It seemed like a prudent think to do. 
   But here is the deal. You earn some interest, but guess what? It is taxed at regular income rates. So it is suddenly eroded by, at that time almost a half, now around a third. And then if you ever get to the point where, okay, I am going to bring that money back into the business and pay it out in salary, well, guess what? If you have held it for over a year in that money market or CD, your business had to report that and pay taxes on it at the end of that first year, and then when you do dispense it as earnings to the owners of the business, guess what? It is taxed again. So it got taxed twice. 
   So for doing the prudent thing, the prudent thing, holding 3 months of capital in a relatively liquid account so you can get to it if you need it, for doing the prudent thing, you are punished on the interest you earn. So that is not a good deal. You have got to pay taxes on it from your business, and, oh, by the way, if you ever do pay it out to yourself in salary, you get taxed again. So you have been taxed three times on that money that you thought you were doing the right thing. You were putting it away against perhaps a lean month or two. Maybe those Medicare payments didn't come through as fast as I would like, or, God forbid, the SGR cut my payment again for Medicare reimbursement, I would have a little cash to fall back on. But, guess what. If you do that, if you do that, you are actually hurt.     
   If we were to change the Tax Code, again, with a single rate structure, no capital gains tax, no taxes on dividends, no taxes on savings, which is extremely important, and I personally would eliminate the Clinton tax on Social Security earnings, what would happen? Personal savings would increase. 
   Would that be a bad thing? Does anyone in this body think personal savings would be a bad thing, particularly given our current economic situation? Businesses might just actually expand and create jobs. Would that be a bad thing given our job creation numbers this past month? We lost a bunch. We didn't create anything. 
   Without the heavy corporate income tax, which is currently the second highest in the industrialized world, companies would have less incentive to offshore their headquarters and offshore their earnings. If they had less incentive, and those earnings and headquarters stayed in this country, wouldn't that ultimately be a good thing for the state of our economy? 
   So it really comes down to an all-American principle of freedom, and it comes in a prescription. The decision to move to a single-rate system would be entirely up to the business, not up to the government. This would be an optional program. If someone has constructed their domestic finances or their business finances to maximize their earnings under the current Federal Tax Code, stay in the code, that would be your choice. 
   But if you are tired of the shoe box, if you want to fill out a single-page return, single-page form, and then have the rest of that time, that half day I am going to spend on Saturday and that other half day I am going to spend on a week, if you would rather have that day to spend with your family, take a personal day off, go fishing, whatever, earn more money, whatever, that's yours. You don't owe it to the government any more. 
   A flat tax would be less costly. It would save taxpayers $100 billion a year and would reduce cost of compliance by over 90 percent. The resulting increase in personal savings, well, wait a minute, didn't we just pass a big stimulus package? That would have an immediate effect on our American economy by putting that money back in the hands of productive people in this country. 
   As I said earlier, recent polling by American Solutions shows that over 80 percent of Americans favor an optional, single-page, one-page tax form with one rate. After all, is anybody really going to complain if this one time, this one time Congress does something worthwhile and actually makes something easier? After all, who could complain about making something easier, especially a process that comes with such a high cost? 
   One of the things we haven't even talked about, and you now hear talked about all the time, is the compliance gap, the 200 to 300 to $350 billion that it's estimated that is owed in taxes but it's not paid in taxes because it's simply too hard to go through all that you have to go through to comply with the IRS code or you are worried about making a mistake and going to jail for misrepresenting yourself on your tax form. 
   So that compliance gap, the tax gap as it is called, you will hear people talk a bit on both sides of the aisle. They want to utilize, well we are going to go out and do a better job of collecting the taxes, so we will use that $350 billion to offset an increase in the farm program or AMT patch, or, God forbid, we would fix the SGR formula for patients and doctors across the country. But you always hear people talk about that tax gap that they are going to collect that $300 billion and put it to some other good work, but this gets rid of the tax gap. It's gone tomorrow. 
   You wouldn't have to worry about people not complying with the code because it would be so simple. The cost of not complying would be high. The cost  of complying would become much more bearable. 
   Well, guess what? This is a very political year. Everywhere you go, people are talking about change. 
   I will tell you what, I haven't heard the word ``change'' so much since I was an intern at the newborn nursery at the Parkland Hospital back in the 1970s. Everyone is talking about change. You turn on the television, people are talking about change. 
   Let's consider how that change could improve one of the most complicated of institutions, the Internal Revenue Service. More importantly, let's consider how that change could deliver prosperity, deliver time back to America's families and to America's taxpayers. 
   You know what, when it gets right down to it, that's a stimulus, that's a stimulus that every American could understand and every American could be for. That's a stimulus package that everyone on the floor of this House should consider and vote for. 
   I have got a bill, H.R. 1040. Ranking Member Dreier has a bill, Ranking Member Paul Ryan has a bill. I think all of those are worth looking at. I would like to see those brought up in the appropriate committee of Ways and Means, the Subcommittee on Taxation. Let's have the debate; let's have the argument. Let's do it out in the open. Let the American people hear our debate, and let them decide who is arguing on their behalf and who is arguing on behalf of the special interests. I think it would become quite clear after just a few minutes of that debate. 
   Again, here is an opportunity to give time and money back to the American people. That is a stimulus package of which this body, both sides of the aisle, could be justifiably proud. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SUSPENSION BILLS: MAJOR POLICY DECISIONS BY THE LEADERSHIP OF THE MAJORITY PARTY -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I came to the floor of the House this morning to talk about energy. But I just want to say a word about what was just discussed. 
   We have had major policy decisions in health care come to the floor of this House, not through my Subcommittee on Health in Energy and Commerce, not through the full Committee on Energy and Commerce. No. It comes directly from the Speaker's Office to the floor of the House. It comes up under suspension because who wants to vote against health? Who wants to vote against doctors? 
   But the reality is major changes in public policy are going on with no discussion in committee, no ability to amend or improve a bill on the floor of the House, no ability to offer an alternative before we vote because they are brought up under suspension. 
   This is wrong and this is indicative of the type of leadership that this House has had for the last 20 months. This is what the American people say they want changed. When they talk about change, they're talking about change from the top, and it's high time it happened. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (CHILDREN'S HEALTH AND MEDICARE PROTECTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - August 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman. One minute is scarcely enough time to discuss what we need to discuss today. So I would, just like the chairman of the full committee, put my entire statement into the Record. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want to confine my comments today to issues that surround issues for physician reimbursement. I had two amendments last night in Rules Committee that were not made in order that would have vastly improved physician reimbursement. Instead, we have language in the Democratic underlying bill that provides a small uptick for the next 2 years, then you fall off the cliff, and then you're frozen for the next 10 years. Hardly measures that will encourage people to go into the practice of medicine in the future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (AMERICAN HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - January 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I come to the House floor tonight to talk, like I often do, a little bit about health care. And this is the first day that the Congress is back in session after the December recess. And legitimately, someone might ask is it maybe a little early to begin this type of discussion. But the reality is, since we didn't finish our work in the last year, it is entirely appropriate for us to begin this year talking about some of those same things that were left undone at the end of 2007. Specifically, the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program. An 18-month extension was passed at the end of the last Congress. I was grateful for that. I voted in favor of that. But the reality is this Congress should do its work and reauthorize this program for the full 10 years as it was intended when the reauthorization was up last September. 
   We had a lot of opportunities to do this in my committee, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, but we failed to have a markup in subcommittee. We had a markup in full committee that was little more than a charade. We brought a very bad bill to the House floor in August. It was passed, but was not taken up by the Senate because the bill was so flawed. 
   Then we had the Senate bill come to the House floor and it was a new bill, not a conference committee report. We had ample opportunity to debate that and take it back to committee and have a subcommittee hearing and subcommittee markup, a full committee hearing and a full committee markup, but we chose not to do that. We brought that same bill to the floor and voted on it. The House passed because they have a majority on the other side, and the President vetoed it and the veto was sustained. 
   The same bill was brought up a second time in early October. The same result. The bill was passed, and the bill was vetoed and the veto was sustained.  
   In the interim, many of us worked to try to overcome some of the obstacles to passage for this bill because we felt this was the correct thing to do. But the reality was that politics trumped policy. And at the end of the day, the best we could muster, at the end of December, at the very last minute, was to pass an 18-month extension. 
   Madam Speaker, perhaps I should be grateful for that, because with an 18-month extension we will be past the next Presidential election before we are forced to look at this bill again. But I hope this Congress does not take that tactic. I hope this Congress takes seriously its obligation to study this problem and find out where the difficulties occurred last time and see if we can't come to the floor with a bill that could be broadly supported by both sides of the aisle. I think that is a possibility. But the reality, again last fall, some people thought the politics were more important than the policy. And the end result, well, we saw what the end result was. 
   The same thing happened with our Medicare proposals. We have every year this mad scramble at the end of the year. If Congress doesn't do something because of the odd formulas by which we pay physicians in this country, physicians that we have asked to take care of our Medicare patients, but we have a very odd formula by which we reimburse those physicians. And as a consequence, every year at the last minute we are left scrambling, seeing if we can't do something. It is called the physician fix. It is almost like something that will happen on the winter solstice every single year, because if we don't do something by January 1, massive pay cuts are administered to the physician corps in this country. Again, the very physicians whom we have asked to take care of some of our sickest and most complex patients, and these physicians this past year faced a 10 percent pay cut. 
   Now, at the last minute, we did do something to forestall the pay cut. We passed a rather modest bill to give a one-half percent positive update to physicians who take care of Medicare patients. But we only did it for 6 months' time, which means we literally kicked the can down the field. And the reality is we will have to face this again in June. And guess what? The deeper we go into this year, the more politics will take over, because it is a Presidential election year, and it is a Presidential election year the likes of which this country has not seen since 1952, or perhaps even 1928, when both sides are running for essentially what is an open seat in the United States Presidency. 
   Well, I did come to the floor tonight because I wanted to have a candid conversation about health care. I think many in this Congress know I had a life before Congress. I was actually a practicing physician for 25 years back in my home State of Texas. So I feel I can approach this problem from both the provider level, on the basis of that 25 years in practice, as well now as the policymaking level, the legislative level, because obviously we do deal with a lot of health care here on the floor of the House of Representatives. 
   I want to talk in some greater detail about the issues pertaining to Medicare, and I will get to that, but let me step back and talk about where the status of health care is in this country, because when you watch the Presidential debate, it seems everyone is talking about health care. Perhaps that is a good thing. In reality, the conflict in Iraq is not as divisive as it was a year ago. And as a consequence, you hear less talk about this country's involvement in Iraq. And as a consequence, you hear more talk about domestic issues. Health care and the economy have replaced some of the rhetoric that we heard during the 2006 fall election and some of the rhetoric that we heard on the floor of the House a scant year ago regarding this country's foreign policy. In reality, that is a good thing. 
   It is a strange phenomenon when this country is prevailing in a conflict that we stop talking about it. I can't think of any other time in American history when that was the mindset. Nevertheless, that is what is occurring now. Again, as a consequence, we are talking a good deal more about health care. 
   When you hear the talk about health care out on the campaign trail, you recognize there are some fairly different ideas that are out there and being talked about. And it is not that one person has any quarter on the best ideas, but it certainly lays the issue at the feet of the American people that there are very different ways of dealing with this problem, very different ways of setting the goal, very different ideas about what the goal should be, and obviously very, very different ideas about how to accomplish that. 
   In fact, there is a lot of discussion about should we talk in terms of reform of our system of health care or is, in fact, the situation beyond the reform and we need to talk about actually transforming our method of health care in this country. And we will hear that debate play out. We will hear talk about things like mandates and universal coverage. Those are debates we should have at the national level, and those are debates where there should be broad participation. 
   Madam Speaker, we lost a very good friend in Texas at the end of December. Ric Williamson was the chairman of our Texas Department of Transportation. He died 
   rather suddenly at the end of year, an individual who was younger than I am; so needless to say, it was unexpected. During the memorial service that was held for Mr. Williamson later that week, a lot of discussion of how he had been a State legislator before he took the position with the Texas Department of Transportation, and many of his friends and former colleagues got up to talk about Ric Williamson's life. And almost to a person they talked about how Ric Williamson regarded politics as a full contact sport. That is you went at it with everything you had, but you do it openly. You do it in the committee room. You do it in the light of day. You don't do it behind closed doors in some secret conference in the middle of the night and cut a deal one side with the other. 
   That is what this debate should be. It may be hard. We may come at each other again with full body contact in this debate, but it should be done on the floor of the House. It should be done on the floor of the committee rooms and not in a back room where a deal is cut at the last minute. 
   Many options face us in this country. And again, we will hear a great deal of debate about things like universal coverage and mandates. We will hear a great deal about things like do we in fact craft policies that people actually want, or do we decide what policies people want and then administer them accordingly. 
   But, Madam Speaker, freedom is the foundation of life. In my home State of Texas, that is very much the case. We thrive on unlimited options. Two years ago when we had the great Medicare part D debates, I remember at first there was a lot of criticism that no one will sign up to deliver these plans. There will be no plans. There will be a default government plan. 
   So guess what happened? In my home State of Texas, we had 45, 46, 47 companies sign up to provide these drug plans. And then we were told there were too many choices. The reality is Americans thrive on choices. And choices are what this debate, in my opinion, a lot of what this debate should be about. It is what has made this country great. And, in fairness, it is what has made, at least from a scientific basis, the health care in this country the envy of the world. 
   Well, again, the same kinds of options are going to be out there facing Americans during the debates, and I urge them to pay attention at every level. I know I must direct my remarks to the Chair, Madam Speaker, but if I could speak directly to the American people, I would encourage them to pay a great deal of attention to what is talked about, who is offering what, are they believable, and, in the end, do we think anything will really change no matter how many times they mention the word. 
   When it comes to innovation, the United States of America is undisputably the world's leader. In the last 25 years, 17 of the past 25 Nobel Prizes in medicine have been awarded to American scientists working in labs. That is a phenomenal record. Four out of the six most important discoveries of the last 25 years have occurred in this country, things like advanced scanning techniques, things like statin drugs to lower cholesterol, things like coronary artery stints and bypasses,  things that have extended life to citizens who 30 years ago, quite frankly, there might not have been any help, there might not have been any hope. 
   Now, innovations can improve health and life expectancy. It certainly does not mean that can't improve on a good thing, that we step back and rest on the accomplishments that are already there. But it certainly means in the environment that we provide in this country, quite honestly an environment that tolerates uncertainty from time to time, an environment that rewards risk-taking from time to time, that environment is a good thing for the furtherance of the science of medicine and ultimately a good thing for health care in this country. 
   Madam Speaker, one of the lead articles in this week's New England Journal of Medicine, and I apologize, I have forgotten the author's name. I just read it briefly on my way up here this morning, but it talked about how doctors now need to be prepared for a patient coming into their office and saying, I just had extensive genetic testing done on my own at a low cost, and now I have some information about my own human genome, and I would like you to help me interpret that.     
   Indeed, that day has arrived. And doctors in this country do need to be aware of these changes and do need to be prepared to answer their patients' questions and provide insight and direction where insight and direction occur, and be able to provide the type of environment that will allow continued learning about this new science that has just arrived on our doorstep. 
   Two companies now offer genetic testing, genomic testing, more appropriately, simply taking a swab of the inside of a cheek and sending it off to a company and waiting a few weeks and they come back and tell you all kinds of things about what your genomic makeup is. 
   Madam Speaker, when I think back to when I first entered the doors of Parkland Hospital in July of 1977, I would have never believed, never believed that this type of technology would be available in my lifetime, let alone that this type of technology would be available for a reasonable cost, and such a reasonable cost that people just simply elect to have it done to find out a little bit more about themselves and perhaps underscore some risk factors that they already knew were there and perhaps alleviate some concern about risk factors that may not carry the weight that the patient thought they did. 
   It's a phenomenal time that we've entered into, truly a transformational time in medicine. 
   And it has happened before. During the last century, I can think of three times when the scientific advances were so rapid and so solid, and at the same time, there was so much social change brought by bodies that legislate, bodies that govern, that the practice of medicine was forever changed. 
   Look what happened back around 1910. We were coming from a time where blistering, burning and bleeding were thought to be the peer-reviewed, the evidence-based proper treatments to administer to patients who were in distress. And very abruptly, the world changed. And the world changed because we found out more about the practice of anesthesiology. The world changed because we found out a little bit about blood-banking. The world changed because we found out a great deal more about the science and manufacture of vaccines. And then at the same time when all of that science was consolidating in the practice of medicine, we had the Flexner Commission and subsequently the Flexner Report commissioned by the United States Congress. And those activities now administered more at the State level; but suddenly we had that consolidation of medical school curricula across the country. Medical schools used to be able to teach all manner of things. Suddenly, they were conscripted or somewhat conscribed in what they could teach, but they began to teach evidence-based scientific fact in the medical schools. And it was just at the right time, because the scientific body of information was changing very rapidly. 
   And if we fast forward to the middle of the 1940s, a country at war, 10 or 12 years before, Sir Alexander Fleming had found an unusual curiosity in his laboratory petri dish: a penicillin mold could inhibit the growth of bacteria. Well, that was an astounding discovery, but it was really little more than a laboratory curiosity until an American company came up with a method of producing large quantities of this substance that inhibited bacterial growth, and thus began the modern pharmaceutical industry in this country. But it was a good thing, because we were a country at war. And, indeed, that infection-fighting antibiotic went from a laboratory curiosity that was intensely labor intensive to produce and intensely expensive to administer, and it went to something that was available to the average person in this country. And, indeed, antibiotics were available to treat our soldiers who were injured during the landing at Normandy, and I dare say many life and limb were spared because of the availability and the inexpensive availability of that antibiotic. 
   Another rather astounding scientific accomplishment that occurred at the same time, cortisone had been discovered several years before but cortisone was not commercially available. The way they got cortisone back then was to extract it from the adrenal gland of an ox. Well, if the ox was not anxious to give up their adrenal gland, you can imagine that was a pretty labor-intensive process. 
   But an individual that we honored on the floor of this House during the last Congress, Dr. Percy Julian, a Ph.D. biochemist, came up with a way of producing cortisone from a plant precursor, from a soybean precursor. Again, same situation: suddenly you had a medicine that was profoundly useful, but only in limited application because it was so expensive and so hard to obtain in the amounts necessary to treat a patient, and now suddenly it was readily available and it was available at a very low cost because it now could be mass produced. 
   Well, these two striking phenomena occurred in the 1940s. And what else happened in the 1940s? Again, we're a country at war. The President wanted to prevent an inflationary spiral, or an inflationary cycle; so he enacted wage and price controls. Employers wanted to keep their employees working. They didn't want someone else stealing their employees away, because employees were at a premium. The vast majority of Americans were off involved in fighting the war. So employers came up with the idea of maybe let's offer some fringe benefits, health insurance, retirement benefits. And wait a minute. Don't think we can do that because of the wage and price controls. But a court case ensued, as so oftentimes happened, and the Supreme Court ruled that indeed these benefits could be offered, and not only were they not in violation of the wage and price control statutes, but they also could be administered as pre-tax expenses. So suddenly we had the vast social change of employer-derived health insurance arriving rather suddenly in the 1940s; and at the same time you, doctors, for the first time in the history of medicine had a cheap, inexpensive way of combating infection and treating people with other inflammatory conditions with cortisone. 
   Again, fast forward to the 1960s. Big changes were on the horizon. In fact, in 1945, President Roosevelt died of malignant hypertension, died of a stroke. 
   In the mid-1960s we were beginning to develop medicines that treated accelerated hypertension, or malignant hypertension. We were developing medicines that could treat psychoses. We were developing the first medicines that were now known as antidepressants; a lot of changes on the horizon. 
   And what else changed in the mid-1960s? For the first time, the Federal Government got involved in a big way, in a big way, in paying for health care with the passage of Medicare in 1965 and, subsequently, Medicaid thereafter. And now we're at a time in our country's history, where almost 50 cents out of every health care dollar that's spent originates right here on the floor of the House of Representatives, because of the vast expansions of the expenditures in Medicare, Medicaid, VA system, Federal prison system, Indian Health Service, a lot of different ways where the Federal Government has a participatory role in health care, one that quite frankly was never envisioned 40 years ago.  
   So the world indeed has changed because of some of the social changes that was brought about by changes in this Congress. 
   Well, I submit, Madam Speaker, that the world of medicine is on the brink of another such transformational change. I've already alluded to the changes that are going to happen in the realm of genomic medicine, a lot of advances in the types of scanning that are available, the types of imaging that are available. Medical care in this country is going to become a great deal more personalized with the development of genomic medicine. It is of necessity going to be more participatory, but at the same time more preventive. And these are good things. These are reasons to make one excited about a career in health care and in some ways I'm envious of the young people today who look up from their desk in high school or college and say, I want to do that; I want a career in health care. I know it takes a long time. I know the government's interfering at a lot of different levels, but I want a career in health care because it's so exciting. And there's still that basic altruistic feeling inside of a lot of us in health care that we want to do that because it's the right thing to do. 
   Well, we are on the cusp of a true transformational time in health care in this country. Now, can Congress properly interact with that transformation as it occurs? It's very difficult, and our history is not great in that regard because Congress is inherently a transactional body. We take money from here and we move it over here. We create winners and losers in this system. And all too often the transactional can be the enemy of the transformational. And it is our job, our job, every one of us who sits here in a seat in this House of Representatives, to ensure that our transactional bias does not interfere with the transformation as it's occurring under our very feet. 
   Congress can't legislation the transformations going on in health care. It's happening anyway. It's happening whether we want it to or not. But Congress can certainly interfere with that transformation if we don't set the proper regulatory tone, if we don't provide the proper liability environment, if we don't provide the proper incentives. Congress can actually be the enemy of transformation. 
   And, Madam Speaker, there are several more things that I want to cover this evening. But I see I'm joined by one of my colleagues, one of my colleagues in the House of medicine as well as one of my colleagues in the House of Representatives. And I would like to yield to the gentleman from Georgia such time as he may consume to likely address the issue of medical liability, because that is a big aspect of when we talk about health care reform in this country. It's a big part of the equation. So I'll yield to my friend from Georgia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (AMERICAN HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - January 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I appreciate my friend coming to the floor tonight. In fact, let's stay on the concept of electronic health records, electronic medical records for just a moment. 
   I have a confession to make to my friend from Georgia. I haven't always been a big proponent of electronic medical records. There has been some debate from time to time in our literature as to whether the savings is actually as great as what is anticipated. I've used the two separate prescribing platforms in my private practice back in Lewisville, Texas, with sort of marginal success, but became a believer in the availability of an electronic medical record sometime after Labor Day in 2005. 
   And the reason I became a believer was because after Hurricane Katrina ravaged the Louisiana and Mississippi gulf coasts, I had an opportunity on several occasions to travel to the city of New Orleans. In January of 2006, in fact, we had a field hearing in New Orleans. As part of that field hearing, we visited Charity Hospital, Charity Hospital one of the venerable old hospitals in this country, one of the hospitals that is responsible for training some of our medical pioneers. In fact, through good fortune, I had a chance to sit down with Dr. DeBakey late last fall, and he talked a little bit about his time of training in the city of New Orleans. 
   Charity Hospital, again, one of the venerable old institutions, now likely lost to us forever. And down in the basement of Charity Hospital was a room that had been underwater for weeks. In fact, there was still water on the floor. This photograph doesn't really do that justice. There was still water on the floor after the city had been dewatered. I didn't know ``dewatered'' was a verb. But after the Corps of Engineers had dewatered the city and they were able to go back down to the records room of Charity Hospital, this is what they encountered. These are records that had been submerged for weeks in brackish water, water contaminated with goodness knows what, and what we see here is now smoke or soot damage on these medical records. This is, in fact, black mold that is growing on the medical records. And the reality is you could not send anyone in there to retrieve this information because it would simply be too hazardous, but also, the records themselves had been submerged for weeks at a time in seawater, brackish water, and the ink itself, many of these records were written in ballpoint pen by people over decades. And that ink washed off the pages so those that aren't ruined by the black mold are rendered illegible. Doctors' handwriting is hard to read anyway, but you submerge it for several weeks in brackish waters, and it truly becomes something you cannot read. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (AMERICAN HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - January 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Let me just point out, though, one aspect of the Federal Government's involvement in electronic medical records and one of the reasons we have to be so careful. 
   When I said earlier that the Congress, being a transactional body, can sometimes be the enemy of transformation, a year ago a lot of us heard stories about some difficulties out of Walter Reed Hospital here in the city of Washington, DC. 
   And I traveled out to Walter Reed and visited that Building 18, and indeed, there were some significant problems. But the young man who showed me around Building 18, Master Sergeant Blades, said, You know what's really, really at the heart of a lot of this frustration is that my guys here on medical hold have to go through their medical records. They will go through this long arduous process of compiling their record, yellow highlighting the important features, all done on paper, and that will be delivered to someone's desk where it sits for 2 weeks and then gets lost, and they've got to start all over again, which increased the frustration to be sure, but also increased the time that these young men who were at Walter Reed on medical hold trying to decide whether they went back with their unit or whether they were going to be discharged and cared for in the VA system, while all of that was sorted out, the paper record did indeed seem to be an impediment to that process. 
   But we do have an electronic medical record system at the VA, and one I've never used it myself, the Vista system, multisource software. I understand it works very well. And we also have an electronic medical record at the Department of Defense, but the problem is that the two won't talk to each other, and as a consequence, our soldiers are caught in between. And the result, at least a year ago at Walter Reed Hospital, was concerning to many of us here, and it has taken a good deal more time than I would have thought necessary to get this problem solved to bridge that gap between one set of electronic medical records and another.     
   So we do have to be careful at the Federal level. We don't always have the best solutions. 
   So sometimes what our approach needs to be is to provide the right regulatory environment, to provide the right liability environment, to provide the right incentives, perhaps establish some standards, as Dr. Gingrey said, and then get out of the way and let the people who know how to develop these things actually be in charge and not have Members of Congress responsible for writing software. 
   The gentleman also brought up some very good points about the formula by which we reimburse physicians under the Medicare system. I thought the gentleman would enjoy seeing, and I know I'm not supposed to go through this because I'm accused of being too much into the process, but this is the formula by which we pay physicians, by which we reimburse physicians under Medicare. It's called the Sustainable Growth Rate Formula. It's been around for a while. It looks a little daunting, but it's, perhaps, understandable when you look at it. We have a relative value unit for work, plus a geographic modifier, another relative value unit for practice expenses and another geographic modifier, and a relative value unit for liability insurance, and a geographic multiplier. 
   And then we see all these terms defined here. There is actually a misprint on this page, and it's the fault of the Congressional Research Service, not the person who made this poster for me. But it's almost applied at the end by CF, which is a conversion factor, referred to here as CV, the conversion factor. Well, that's an interesting thing. How do we get the conversion factor? Well, we've got to go to another formula. And here we're going to be able to calculate the conversion factor. And I won't go through all of this because I'm told I shouldn't, but at the very bottom of the page you see we need to know the UAF before we can calculate the conversion factor, the update adjustment factor. And how do we get the update adjustment factor? I'm glad you asked. The update adjustment factor is here, yet another formula. 
   Now, I don't show these to impress people with my ability to go through the mathematical formula, but I do use this to point out that the system by which we reimburse physicians, it needs some attention. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (AMERICAN HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - January 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
   And here's the deal with this formula: what it results in is a vastly different universe for physicians who are providing care to our Medicare patients when you compare them with hospitals, nursing homes, HMOs, drug companies. Each one of those entities receives a positive update every year based on, guess what? It's kind of like a cost-of-living adjustment; it's called a market basket update. The physicians formula, though, unless Congress intervenes, which it did on every one of these years, unless Congress intervenes, this adjustment factor is going to go down, and it's projected to go down year over year for the next 10 years' time to the tune of approximately 35 to 37 percent, clearly an untenable factor. 
   You know, if a doctor goes into his banker's office and says, here is my business plan, Mr. Banker, and I want you to help me get my business established, I've got this business plan where I'm going to earn about 10 percent less each year over the next 10 years' time, do you think you will be able to fund me some money? No, sir, I don't think that would happen. In no business would we ask someone to stay in business where the cost of reimbursement is going to go down year over year. And we all know, is it going to cost any less for energy to heat and cool that physician's office over those years? No. The answer is, of course not. Is it going to cost any less to have the employees in the office? Is it going to cost any less for the liability insurance? And the answer is ``no'' to all of those questions. 
   Mr. Speaker, I know we're running a little short on time, but I wanted to give the gentleman from Georgia a chance just to talk a little bit about what is happening in the arena of liability reform in the House of Representatives, because I know that is an issue that's been important to both of us. 
   We have done some things in Texas over the last 4 years' time which I think, from my perspective, have been very positive. There are other concepts out there that are talked about, concepts such as medical courts, concept such as earlier offer. We had a bill similar to the Texas bill that came through the House of Representatives, as the gentleman pointed out, for the 108th and 109th Congress; but I would like to yield to the gentleman just for a moment to talk a little bit about liability reform. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (AMERICAN HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - January 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman for his participation this evening. I actually thank you for bringing up the issue about Congressional Budget Office scoring. We're about to the time in this Congress where you hear us talk a lot about the budget, and we will be developing the parameters of the congressional budget shortly after the President gives his State of the Union message here in a few weeks. The President delivers his budget, and then we come up with a congressional version of the budget. 
   The last year when we were working on the budget, I brought essentially what was the Texas medical liability reform model to the Budget Committee, had it scored by the Congressional Budget Office, and it scored in a savings just under $4 billion over the 5-year budgetary window, not an enormous amount of money; but for a body that spends $3 trillion a year, it was savings worth looking at. And the Texas legislation, as the gentleman from Georgia pointed out, the law passed in California back in 1975 seems like forever ago. The Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975 passed in the State of California, signed by the Governor, who at the time was Jerry Brown. This same concept in Texas was developed. And the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975 in California capped noneconomic damages at $250,000. The Texas bill was a little more flexible than that: it allowed for a trifurcated cap of $250,000 on the physician and $250,000 on the hospital, and $250,000 on a second hospital or nursing home if one was involved. 
   But that trifurcated cap allowed for a little more flexibility in trying to establish just compensation for a patient who, indeed, had been injured; but it also acknowledged the reality of our system in that you cannot have an open-ended amount of compensation for noneconomic damages because it throws so much indecision into the system that people can't make rational decisions. 
   So by trifurcating the cap, and interestingly enough, in the State of Texas punitive damages were still allowed to stand, we also had periodic payments for large settlements, and we also had a Good Samaritan rule. This bill passed in 2003. It was upheld under a constitutional amendment election in September of 2003 and has now been the law of the land since that time. And we have seen phenomenal success in Texas, not only with holding down the cost of medical liability premiums, which were going up year after year after year, but we also saw medical liability insurers leaving the State in vast numbers. In fact, we've gone from 17 down to two. And you just don't get very good competition between insurance companies when you only have two of them. 
   So we now have brought more insurers back into the State. They've come back into the State without an increase in premiums. In fact, Texas Medical Liability Trust, my last insurer of record, has reduced premiums by 22 percent over the last 4 years compared to double-digit increases for each of the last 5 years prior to 2003. 
   So it really is a phenomenal success story. Smaller, mid-sized not-for-profit community hospitals have had to put less money into their contingency funds to cover possible liability pay-outs, and as a consequence they've been able to return more money to capital investment, hiring nurses, just the kinds of things you want your smaller community not-for-profit hospital to be able to do when released from some of the constraints of the liability system. 
   I'm not saying that this is perfect; I'm not saying that this is what we should all aspire to. Certainly there are reasons to consider concepts like medical courts. Certainly there are reasons to consider concepts like early offer. But the fact of the matter is we can do a lot better than what we're doing today because the system that we have today only compensates a small number of the patients who are actually injured. And, moreover, the time it takes for a patient to recover money under the current system is far too long.     
   And if you will, the administrative costs, that is, costs of the medical experts and the legal system and the lawyers' costs, consume about 55 to 58 percent of every dollar that's awarded in a settlement. Well, we wouldn't tolerate a health insurance company that had an administrative cost of 58 percent. We'd call them profiteers and we'd bring them up before hearings, but yet we tolerate it in our medical justice system every day of the week. And it's not right. 
   I want to so much thank my friend from Georgia for joining me here tonight. This is an issue that we will get to talk about a lot over this next year. Obviously, we have got a 6-month window of opportunity on getting the physician payment formula right. I believe that means taking a short-term, mid-term, and long-term approach to the problem, which I have tried to do in the past. And we will be working with other people here in the House of Representatives, I hope on both sides of the aisle, to try to craft a solution to this problem, which has vexed this Congress for a number of years. But suffice it to say, we will be able to be back here on several more occasions talking about this and other issues as they relate to health care in this country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SCHIP -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I come to the floor tonight for what was to be the leadership hour, but the hour has gotten so late that this will really only be a few minutes of discussion on the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program, the program known as SCHIP. 
   This program was introduced 10 years ago by a Republican House of Representatives. It was a bipartisan plan to help low-income children to have health care coverage. This program was to be reauthorized in 10 years' time. That 10 years is up on September 30, 2 months from tonight. 
   We all agree, on both sides of the aisle, that we want to make sure children of low-income families have the health care coverage that they need. But, Madam Speaker, we are also anxious to be certain that we don't do so at the expense of senior citizens on Medicare. We would like to make sure we don't raise taxes to do this. And a lot of us are concerned about permanently expanding yet another entitlement program. Anyone who reads the newspaper today knows that we already have trouble with the entitlement programs that are already there. 
   The problems with the bill that has been introduced by the Democrats that we had read in our committee last week: the Democratic bill reauthorizes the SCHIP program as a permanent entitlement, $159 billion over 10 years. One of the biggest problems is there is no income limit for SCHIP eligibility. Current SCHIP guidelines are for families at or below 200 percent of the Federal poverty limit. Some States go higher than that. But, Madam Speaker, look what happens when you go to these higher levels: 
   The current authorization, again, is for 200 percent of the Federal poverty  limit; 50 percent of those children actually already are covered under a private insurance or Medicaid. As you go to successively higher income limits, between 300 and 400 percent of poverty, nearly nine out of ten children are already covered on a private insurance plan or Medicaid. The SCHIP program, by expanding it to these levels, will crowd these individuals out of private insurance and drive them onto government-subsidized health care. I would ask you if that is the best expenditure of our Federal health care dollar. 
   The open-ended Federal funding in the program proposed by the Democrats allows States to go over their budget. It shifts children participating in private insurance to government insurance. A child is now defined as an individual up to 25 years of age, and, once again, adults are covered under this plan, which really has been one of the failings of the previous SCHIP authorization. 
   A big problem is cutting Medicare Advantage plans by $157 billion, denying seniors access to plans that have enjoyed widespread popularity in areas where they have been introduced. It cuts Medicare provider payments, reduces inpatient hospital payments, cuts skilled nursing facilities and home health care, and reduces payments for imaging and oxygen or mobility devices. 
   It does increase taxes. It creates an entirely new tax, one that has yet to be scored by the Congressional Budget Office on all private health insurance plans, an assessment, if you will, on private health insurance plans. It increases taxpayer liability for immigrants and illegal aliens. It eliminates the 5-year waiting period for people who are in this country legally to participate in Medicaid and CHIP. Wisely, a moratorium for 5 years was placed on SCHIP and Medicaid so that people would not seek to come to this country simply to participate in the welfare state but would come because they wanted to be good citizens and be workers and produce in this country. More pernicious, in my opinion, is allowing illegal aliens to receive Medicaid and SCHIP by weakening citizen verification standards. 
   A net cost of $76 billion over 10 years certainly flies in the face of fiscal responsibility. And, more importantly, it repeals the trigger that was put in the Medicare Modernization Act 3 years ago that would require the President and the Congress to reaffirm if Medicare expenditures went above a certain amendment. 
   Madam Speaker, there is a right way to do this, and I don't want to get too bogged down in process because the time available to me is very short, but recently we underwent an FDA reauthorization bill in my committee, the Committee on Energy and Commerce. It went through subcommittee. It went through full committee. And at the end of the day, we had a bill that was much better than the bill that was originally delivered to us, the committee print of the bill. 
   We weren't allowed to do that on the SCHIP bill. The subcommittee legislative markup was completely eliminated. We just bypassed it. We didn't even do it. The committee print was dropped on the minority members of the committee some 24 hours before we had the legislative markup in full committee. There was no time to evaluate this nearly 500-page bill that had many, many new provisions in it. And as a consequence, many of those on my side of the aisle felt it was inappropriate to deal with such a large transformational piece of legislation in such a short time interval. 
   Now, it is important to note that there is a Republican alternative out there. It is called the Barton-Deal SCHIP reauthorization, and I think this is a balanced approach to actually getting back to the original intent of what the State Children's Health Insurance Program was, in fact, to be: a program for low-income children. The original intent was to cover those children whose parents made too much for them to be covered under Medicaid, but not enough to be on private health insurance. That gap between 150 percent of poverty and 200 percent of poverty was identified as the level at which SCHIP benefits really would have the maximum impact. 
   And in the Barton-Deal reauthorization legislation, it allows States to continue that program, but after a State covers at least 90 percent of the children that should be covered, they can then expand that coverage up to 250 percent of the Federal poverty level. The Federal poverty level for a family of four would be about $41,000 per year at the 200 percent of poverty. At 250 percent of poverty, it is about $51,000 or $52,000 a year for a family of four 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SCHIP -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, under the Barton-Deal plan, new enrollees would be strictly limited to services provided to children and pregnant women with household incomes under 200 percent of the Federal poverty level. And, again, when those States can demonstrate that they are covering the 90 percent of the kids in the bracket, then they could expand to the 250 percent of poverty level. 
   Under the Barton-Deal plan, it does require citizenship to be verified. Many people in my district, certainly many people across the country, feel very strongly about this position, and I have heard from constituents even just this morning in a community coffee in a small town in north Texas. This was something that people were very vocal about it. 
   Once again, we need to reaffirm that the SCHIP program was designed for children who were in need, not for children who had access to health care coverage by other means. The Barton-Deal plan does allow for some individual choice in health care and really, once again, reaffirms that the ``C'' in SCHIP stands for children. And, indeed, that is as it should be. 
   I also want to draw Members' attention to the fact that in the Democratic bill they do attempt to deal with the physician payment cuts that many doctors are going to see. The way they have gone about this, though, I believe is a flawed process. A much better process is one that has been put forth in H.R. 2585, which would actually be a repeal of what is called the SGR formula. That is the thing that has been bedeviling physicians for years and years, certainly since I first came to Congress. This is good legislation that should be looked at. If a Member is concerned about being able to provide or postpone or eliminate those provider cuts that are going to happen to physicians in future years, I don't think the SCHIP bill gets you there. I don't think it takes you far enough to where you want to be. Indeed, there are exclusions for 2008 and 2009, but what happens after 2010? You basically fall off a cliff again. And that is the problem we have had year in and year out with doing these 1- or 2-year fixes on physician reimbursement. H.R. 2585 is a much more sensible way to go about this because it actually puts you on a trajectory for repeal of the SGR and getting out from underneath the tyranny of that SGR formula once and for all. 
   And, again, one of the other final things I would mention is that there is nothing in this SCHIP bill that makes any impact on one of the fundamental problems we have in the practice of medicine today, and that is dealing with the liability crisis that we have had in this country and that we still have in this country. My home State of Texas has made significant strides towards sensible, commonsense liability reform. I was hoping we could see language incorporated via the amendment process in the SCHIP reauthorization, but apparently that is not to be, either. 
   Madam Speaker, I know it has been a long day on the floor of the House. I appreciate the indulgence of the Chair in allowing me the extra time 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - October 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I appreciate you letting me come to the floor tonight to talk, as I often do, about health care, the state of health care in our country. 
   This is a unique time in our Nation's history. We are kind of coming up on the 2008 Presidential campaign, and the reality of unfettered election-year politics intersects harshly with the perennial challenge, the perennial challenge we face in this House, how do we refine, transform, transform this Nation's health care system. 
   The history of health care in America over the last century and the very beginning of this century, it's a fascinating, fascinating subject. Medicine is a very highly structured, highly ordered, scientific-oriented, disciplined, scientific process, the scientific method. And then coupled with a number of governmental policies, we would like to think that they are science driven, we would like to think that they are fact based, but oftentimes they are more emotionally based, and how those policies interact with the scientific basis of the fundamental world of medicine and how, when we enact those policies and what seems like with every good noble intention in the world, how those policies then affect things decades into the future in ways that most people who enacted the policies would have had no idea what became of them. 
   Now, last century, in the 1940s, really a pivotal year in health care, medical care in America, both from a scientific aspect and from the policy aspect. From the scientific aspect, it was a time of great discovery and great excitement. 
   Mr. Alexander Fleming, the famed British scientist, isolated penicillin in 1928 in his laboratory, didn't quite know what he had or what to do with it. Certainly the substance produced by this mold in a petri dish inhibited the growth of the microorganism staphylococcus, a known cause of infection. For the first time, mankind had an agent to battle these unseen microscopic entities that plagued mankind for centuries. 
   Now, 1928 is not exactly 1940, and I referenced 1940. What happened in 1940 was American scientists, American scientists in this country, recognizing the value of this discovery, elucidated a method for mass production of penicillin. Penicillin, which had been a miracle drug before but available in very small quantities only for a very select few was now suddenly available for everyone, and available cheaply. 
   This affected our soldiers, who landed at Normandy on D-Day in 1944, the wounds that they suffered, which otherwise may have become infected and caused serious disability or even death were now even amenable to therapy with an antibiotic. Therapy with an antibiotic is something we now just take as almost second nature, just for granted. We get sick, we go to the doctor, they write a prescription for an antibiotic, we take it, we get well. In the 1940s, this was almost unheard of. So this was truly a breakthrough in the 1940s in the scientific realm in medicine. 
   Another discovery, that had actually occurred earlier, the discovery of cortisone. A very potent anti-inflammatory, cortisone was actually taken from the adrenal glands of oxen who were slaughtered. It was a very laborious, labor-intensive process to get small amounts of cortisone, so it really wasn't something that was amenable to treatment. 
   Then in the 1940s, a scientist that we, in fact, honored in this House during the last Congress, an African American gentleman, Percy Julian, who was a biochemist, not even a physician, a biochemist who worked heavily with soybeans and soybean products elucidated a method to mass produce cortisone, cortisol, which had not been able to be produced other than in very small quantities before, and now suddenly, again, it's available to very large numbers of people at a very reasonable price. 
   These two entities, antibiotics, anti-inflammatory, introduced in the 1940s changed forever the practice of medicine not just in America, but worldwide. What else happened in the 1940s? Obviously, World War II. 
   The Supreme Court made a decision in the 1940s that affects us to this day. During the Second World War, President Franklin Roosevelt, in an effort to keep down problems with inflation, it was a wartime economy, and he was worried about inflation taking hold and taking off, said we are going to have to have wage and price controls. 
   There was a lot of demand for labor in this country. We were producing materiel, things that were needed on the  frontlines in the war. Yet the workforce were all off fighting the war, so employers who were lucky enough to have employees to work wanted to keep them and keep them happy. How do you do that? You pay them more money. But the President said we better not do that or we are going to have trouble with the inflation. 
   Well, employers, being enterprising and ingenuous sorts, said, let's then offer benefits. Let's offer health care benefits, let's offer retirement benefits. A decision by the Supreme Court in the 1940s said, yes, you can do this. It does not violate the spirit of the wage and price controls. Not only that, you can pay these with pretax dollars. 
   So the era of employer-derived, employer-based health insurance was born, turned out to be enormously popular. People liked the idea, and, for decades into the future, that was the model that was followed in this country. 
   Then, fast-forward another 20 years and we are in the mid-1960s. What other health care policy happened at that time? Well, it was the institution of the Medicare program by President Lyndon Johnson. The Congress at that time who said, You know what? We are going to provide protection for our seniors. 
   Now, at that time, they provided protection for the doctors in the hospitals. Prescription drugs came 40 years later in the 108th Congress when we enacted the prescription drug benefit, but think how the interposition of the Medicare policies changed the fundamentals of how health care is paid for in this country. 
   The Medicare and Medicaid programs of the mid-1960s meant all of a sudden the government is in a position to finance a large portion of health care provided in the United States. Now, prior to the Second World War, most health care was paid for at the time of service and was a cash exchange. With the advent of employer-derived health insurance and the position of a large governmental program, most health care now is administered through some type of third-party arrangement. 
   That's useful in that it protects the individual who is covered by insurance from large cash outlays, but there is a trade-off. The covered individual is generally unaware of the cost of the care that he or she receives, as well as the provider, who remains insensitive to the cost of the care that that provider orders. 
   This arrangement has created an environment that permits really rapid growth in almost all sectors of health care and the cost of health care. America's challenge in the early part of the 21st century, America's challenge becomes evident. How do we improve the model of the current hybrid system that involves public and private payment for health care but at the same time anesthetizes most of us as to the true cost of that care?     
   It's also perhaps wise to consider that any truly useful attempt to modernize the system, the primary goal really has to be, first off, you protect the patient. You protect the person, not the status quo. And we also need to ask ourselves if the goal is to protect the system of third party payment or to provide Americans with a reasonable way to obtain health care and allow physicians a reasonable way to provide health care for their patients. Sometimes, with some of the legislation that I see come before my committee, Energy and Commerce, I wonder if we don't forget that fundamental rule. 
   In health care, the basic fundamental unit of production is the interaction that takes place between the medical professional, the doctor and the patient in the treatment room. That fundamental interaction, Madam Speaker, if you will, is the widget. That's what this large health care machine produces. And sometimes that concept also gets lost in the process when we talk about how do we reform health care. 
   The current situation subsidizes, makes payments to those indirectly involved with the delivery of that widget and, ultimately, that drives up the cost. Now, currently in the United States, about half of every health care dollar that's spent originates here in the United States Congress. 
   The United States gross domestic product, we spend about 15 percent of that on health care, and half of that expenditure is generated from the Congress. The gross domestic product currently is about $1.6 trillion. Medicare and Medicaid systems pay for or cost about $600 billion in aggregate. You've got the Federal prison system, the Indian Health Service, the VA system, all of the other interactions that the Federal Government has with paying for health care amount to about half. 
   What's the other half? Is it all private insurance? No, of course it's not. There are a certain number of people who are uninsured. 
   Private insurance, to be sure, occupies a significant percentage of that half that's not paid for by the government. Some is paid for by the individual. Some of it is self-pay, and I would include health savings accounts, medical savings account in that self-pay group because I think that's an important concept that sometimes gets lost in the discussion. 
   And finally, let's be honest. There is a good deal of care that is delivered that is simply a charitable offering by doctors, nurses, hospitals, a charitable offering that is given to patients who lack the ability to pay. 
   Again, the test before us, protect the people, not the special interests. Madam Speaker, we ought to define that which ought to be determined by market principles and that which, of necessity, must be left in the realm of the public provider, the government realm, and how, in all of this process, we preserve individual self-direction instead of establishing supremacy of the state. 
   Additionally, we must challenge those things that result in distortion of market forces, especially those market forces in health care, and acknowledge that some of that distortion is, in fact, endemic. We'll never be able to subtract it out of the system. Some of it is hidden. We'll never even know that it's there, and since it's hidden, or we can't subtract it out of the system, it's not readily changed. So recognize that and acknowledge that we're not going to change that part, but also recognize that there's part of it that is actually easily amenable to change. And the key here is how to maximize the value at the production level. 
   Again, I go back to that fundamental unit of production, the doctor-patient interaction in the treatment room. Yes, I know it may be the emergency room, the operating room, but that fundamental unit of interaction, how do we maximize value at the production level? 
   How do we place a patient who exists on a continuum between health and disease, how do we move that patient more in the direction of health and slow that movement in the direction of disease? 
   How do we allow physicians an appropriate return on their investment, their investment of time, their skill, their intellectual property? And that opens up a host of questions relating to future physician work force issues. 
   How do we keep the employer, if the employer is indeed still involved in providing health insurance for an employee, how do we keep the employer to continue to see value in the system? They get a quicker return to work for their injured or ill employee. Perhaps there's increased productivity, better maintenance of a healthy and more satisfied work force. All of these things are of value to the employer, and that ought to be recognized. 
   In regards to health insurance, how to provide a predictable and managed risk environment, remembering that insurance companies themselves, of necessity, they tend to seek a state of monopoly, and if left unchecked, that's the direction in which they're going to move. If that is a good thing, okay. If that needs to be monitored or regulated, we need to be willing to provide that regulatory expertise as well. 
   And finally, how do we balance the needs of hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, long-term care facilities and the needs of the community, as well as the needs of doctors, nurses and administrators? 
   Now, Madam Speaker, individual legislation, H.R. 2583, H.R. 2584, H.R. 2585 deal specifically with medical work force issues. And as some of the hubbub around the current health care debate dies down, I hope we get a chance to actually articulate and debate those issues. 
   Another bill, H.R. 2203, that was introduced in the 109th Congress would  provide low-income Americans with a direct subsidy to help pay for their health care and many others that would chart a path to true reform in our health care system. 
   But let's keep in mind some principles when we talk about legislation. And I would say the first principle that Americans, at least in my estimation from 25 years of practicing medicine, what do Americans value in their health care system? 
   They value that freedom of choice. They want to go see the doctor they want to see. They want to see them when they want to see them, not when the system says they can come in. When hospitalization is required, you know, no one objects to incentives, but freedom of choice must remain central. 
   Another principle that certainly a number of people talk to me about is a principle of ownership. Madam Speaker, I had a medical savings account before I came to Congress. The whole concept of having what we now call a health savings account or a medical IRA and being allowed to accumulate savings, a nest egg, dollars to offset future medical expenses, is a fundamental desire of many Americans, and I think we should encourage that. 
   These dollars that are then dedicated to health care should be properly owned by the individual. And guess what? When this individual leaves this life, those dollars stay in that individual's estate and they don't go back to any governmental body upon the death of the individual. 
   Another principle would be independence, the preservation of autonomy. The patient or the patient's designee should ultimately be responsible for their care or the ability to decline medical intervention. 
   Another principle that I think we need to keep foremost in our minds is that of high standards. One of the underpinnings of the American medical system has always been high standards of excellence and nothing, in any future change, should undermine that. And, in fact, the pathways to facilitate future growth in excellence should always be encouraged. 
   Again, it gets back to delivering value for the dollar. Innovative approaches. We Americans pride ourselves on innovative approaches. American medicine has always been characterized as embracing innovation and developing new technologies and treatments. Clearly, this must be preserved. 
   Madam Speaker, we just came through the FDA reauthorization bill earlier this year. The whole purpose, years ago, with the development of the Prescription Drug User Fee and the Medical Device User Fee Act was to provide additional funding so that inventions and discoveries and intellectual property that was developed, whether it be a pharmaceutical or a medical device, would not sit so long in the approval phase and could be brought, not just to market, but to be able to help patients more quickly. 
   The difference between practicing medicine in the 1980s, when we had the old system, and the 1990s, under the new system, was phenomenal, and the ability to deliver drugs and devices to the patient public was, in fact, vastly increased. I was grateful to play a small role in the reauthorization of the FDA process when we did that earlier this year. 
   In fact, Madam Speaker, we heard a lot of talk just a few minutes ago about the SCHIP bill. I would hold out the FDA legislative process as a model which this Congress should follow because that was truly a bipartisan process. The SCHIP bill that came through this House that everyone is now holding their breath waiting to see whether or not the other side has the votes to override a veto, but the reality is that bill came through this Congress in what I consider a very pernicious way that is likely to poison any future attempts at bipartisan cooperation because here was a bill that was simply thrown across the transom, rammed through committee, rammed through the House on a party-line vote. Then we go back to the Senate. Well, we can't really do a conference committee. So what do we do? We take up a brand new bill. But we don't bring it back through the committee. We don't bring it back through the subcommittee. No. We come right to the floor and take it or leave it. That's not the way America wants to see this Congress operate. America wants to see this Congress operate as it is supposed to operate. They want to see my committee, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, have a subcommittee markup on the bill. There might be a good idea out there on the Republican side. There might not, but there might be. 
   And what reason could anyone in this body give for saying, we're just not going to do that? They say it was in the interest of time. 
   Madam Speaker, every single Member of this body who stood in this House in January of 2007, raised their right hand and swore an oath to defend the Constitution, knew that at the end of September, what's going to happen? SCHIP expires. It was a 10-year authorization. It started in 1997. Time's up at the end of September. The fiscal year is over. So we all knew this was coming. Why did we leave it till the last minute? And then why did we bring such an imperfect product through and then ram it through at the last minute, without any of the usual consultative advise and consent that goes on at the subcommittee level and the committee level. I frankly don't understand. 
   If people are watching this process, if people are able to dig beneath the political rhetoric, they ought to be outraged at the way this was handled. But I'm getting off message. 
   When we talk about principles for health care reform, one of the things that we really have to focus on is timeliness. 
   Madam Speaker, we always hear about American comparisons to other health care systems around the world. But consider this: Access to a waiting list does not equal access to care. This was the message delivered by the Canadian Supreme Court to its medical system in 2005. We must diligently seek not to duplicate the most sinister type of rationing than that that exists in a system of nationalized health care which prevents citizens from getting care because it just simply takes so long to get to the doctor or get that needed procedure or get that needed hospitalization. 
   Another principle that really, I think, we ought to spend some time discussing and debating, not everyone agrees with this, but really this ought to be a market-based solution and not an administrative solution. The pricing should be based on what is actually indicated by market conditions, and not that that is assumed by an administrator, either an administrator at a private insurance company or an administrator at a Department of Health and Human Services or Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services. 
   Madam Speaker, we hear a lot of talk about mandates. Mandates, in general, in my opinion, lead to a restriction of services. State mandates cause more harm than good and impede competition and choice and drive up the cost and limit the availability of health insurance. 
   Employer mandates. We've heard various reform schemes that have been talked about that deal with employer mandates. That was the crux of the Clinton plan in 1993. Individual mandates, some of the things that have been talked about at some of the State levels. But employer mandates and individual mandates are likewise restrictive. A discussion of mandates should include an accounting of cost and whether those mandates limit the availability of insurance for those who may operate a small business, those who may be self-employed or self-insured. Remember, Medicare part D, the prescription drug program from 2 or 3 years ago, achieved a 90 percent enrollment rate with education, incentives, competition, and not a single mandate. We must not forget that lesson because that's been a highly successful program and one that, in fact, enjoys very high popularity in the population that it serves. 
   The concept of premium support. Premium support is kind of like a tax credit, kind of like a voucher, but not quite. 
   Let's be honest. Our Tax Code is complicated enough as it is. We don't need to layer more complexity on the Tax Code. I know that's a topic for a different discussion, but when we're talking about health care reform, I'm not such a big fan of tax credits. But if there is the ability for, whether it be the SCHIP program or the Medicaid program, to help someone buy down  the cost of that health insurance premium so they can, in fact, afford an insurance policy, I think the concept of premium support is one that this Congress really ought to investigate. In fact, that was an amendment that I had for the SCHIP process, but, again, we weren't allowed to amend that bill in subcommittee, full committee or here on the House floor.     
   You know, on the concept of the premium support, one thing that we could think about doing is some individuals receive some additional help to the earned income tax credit. Well, what if we made it not just a good idea but a requirement that people who receive money on the earned income tax credit that some of those dollars are actually earmarked for their health insurance? Maybe an idea worth exploring. 
   Another principle is that of antitrust enforcement. It has to be balanced. If the Federal Government picks winners and losers, we're going to further distort and make the playing field unlevel, and as a consequence, we are going to thwart our best efforts for health care reform. Creating winners and losers via the antitrust law actually erodes the viability of the American health care system. 
   Well, what about talking about some of the policies that actually may affect some change? For health care within the public sector model, the transformation after the experience with Medicare part D has been instructive. Six protected classes of medication, which were required of all companies who wish to compete and participate in the system, allowed for greater acceptance by the covered population and greater medical flexibility when treating patients. At the same time, the competitive influences brought to bear in that part of the program, indeed, have managed to control costs. In fact, the projection of the cost of the Medicare part D program is $130 billion less over that moving target we call the 10-year budgetary window. It's solely the result of competition. It is likely we will get some additional benefit, some additional cost relief by more timely treatment of disease and delivering more value for the health care dollar. But those concepts, those savings are going to necessarily appear later in the timeline of that process. But just from competition alone, a substantial amount of dollars savings were achieved under the part D program. 
   Madam Speaker, one of the most important lessons learned in the Medicare part D program is that coverage can be significant without the use of mandates. Ninety percent of seniors now have some type of prescription drug coverage, and this was achieved how? By mandates? No. But by creating plans that people actually wanted. What a concept. You don't mandate you have to do it. You build something that people want, and they come to it. We ought to follow that model more often when we are talking about health care reform in this country. 
   Ninety percent of seniors have prescription drug coverage, and providing that coverage means that incentives to sign up in a timely fashion had to be provided. And, indeed, that worked. It emphasized that the personal involvement responsibility was there to maintain some type of credible coverage if it already existed or to buy into credible coverage during the open enrollment period. And, in fact, people accepted that and behaved accordingly. 
   Employer-derived health insurance I think will be a significant player in the American health care scene. A lot of writers who write about health care insurance say the employer-based model is passe. It's dead and gone, never to return. I don't know that I agree with that. Certainly it is still a very viable presence, a very robust presence in the insurance market today. And while again there are some problems, it is hard for me to see that the day is coming where that will completely fall by the wayside. 
   I think that's because it adds value. It adds value to the contract between the employer and employee. It rewards loyal employees and builds commitments within the organization. Businesses can spread risk and help drive down cost. 
   Now, one of the features that is inherent in that model is the proposed associated health plans that the previous Congress and the Congress before that have voted on on several occasions. We have never been able to get that concept to pass in the Senate, but maybe it's time to look at that again. Associated health plans are allowing small businesses of a similar business model to pool together to get the purchasing power of a larger organization. It gives, say, a group of Realtors or a group of doctors' offices the ability to go out and perhaps achieve some of the same kind of discounts that Verizon or AT&T or Wal-Mart get because they are such big employers. This is a very powerful concept to put in the hands of employers. 
   In fact, it was a concept that was so good it was actually first proposed on the floor of this House by Bill Clinton in 1993 in his September speech to this body when he outlined his proposals for health care reform. Associated health plans were part of that reform package. I don't know what happened to them on the way to the end of the legislative process, but somewhere along the way, people stopped talking about them. But they are a good idea. Again, the concept has passed this House twice, in the 108th Congress and 109th Congress. It's a mystery to me why we don't take it up again. I think that is something the American people would be interested in our doing, and, goodness knows, they would like to see us work on something meaningful when it comes to health care. 
   Now, regardless of whether the system is public or private, what have we seen in the way that information is transferred and handled? Have there been any changes in the last 100 years? Yes, I think so. Are there going to be changes in the next 25 years? I think you can bet on that. Vast changes in information technology are going to occur whether doctors want them to, whether hospitals want them to, whether insurance companies want them to. Those changes in how information is handled are going to occur, and they need to be facilitated. We are coming up to a time of rapid learning, and because of improvements in health care technology, the ability to manage databases, retrieve data in a timely fashion are going to be critical for the delivery of health care and protection of patients in the future. 
   Madam Speaker, if I could, let me just share with my colleagues in the House a picture. When I was first elected to Congress in 2002, I have got to say I wasn't a big believer in electronic medical records. They are kind of cumbersome. When you are first learning them, they really slow you down. Your productivity suffers because you have got to learn this system. 
   But 2 years ago at Charity Hospital in New Orleans, one of the venerable, venerable health care institutions of this country, the whole city of New Orleans was hit with Hurricane Katrina and then the flooding to follow the hurricane. Well, here is a picture from January 2006. So 5 months after the hurricane, the water has been pulled out of the city. Here is the medical records room at Charity Hospital. These records haven't been burned. This black stuff here, that is black mold. You could not send anyone in there to retrieve data off of one of these charts without imposing a significant health risk. I don't know what's contained within there, maybe a bone marrow transplant, childbirth, kidney transplant, heart attack. All of that information lost to the ages because they were contained on paper records. 
   Again, I wasn't a big believer in electronic medical records, but walking through the records room at Charity Hospital that day, how many hours have I spent in the records room doing my medical records when I was on staff at various hospitals. It looked a lot like our records room at Parkland Hospital back in the 1970s. 
   These records are lost. This patient's data are now forever irretrievable. And at some point we are going to have to come up with a system that allows that data to be stored in an area where it is not vulnerable to this type of degradation and that it is readily retrievable. And then guess what. If a patient is being seen in New Orleans and treated for a condition but they happen to travel to Fort Worth, Texas, and their medical records are needed, they are accessible online and immediately available to the treating doctors in the destination city.  
   Another issue that I think we will have to pay some attention to is quality reporting. In my opinion, quality reporting should be voluntary, but it is important. Programs need to be generally available. They have got to be accessible to the medical personnel who desire to participate. 
   Currently, I think in all 50 States, we have got quality improvement organizations, and they currently do a good job. They provide information, timely information, information back to the provider as to how the care was delivered. Was it delivered in a timely fashion? Was it delivered in a fashion that was utilizable? 
   There are other ways of establishing quality. Legislation that passed in this House last time to establish a medical home also will result in the accumulation of some quality and some utilization data. I think that data needs to be available to the treating physician. It doesn't have to be widely disseminated publicly, but you make that data available to the physician, and physicians being naturally competitive sorts are going to ask the question, Well, that's interesting. I wonder if I could do better or how have I done in comparison to the people around me? And that will be useful information to provide to physicians and hospitals. 
   Any of the quality reporting methods that are out there have to be generally available and accessible to all of the physicians practicing in a community. Yes, I would like for it to be voluntary, but if it is not generally available, ultimately it is not going to be useful. 
   Now, this approach was a component of the Medicare physician update proposal by, at that time, Chairman JOE BARTON of the Energy and Commerce Committee. He offered that late in 2006. I think it is a concept that should be revisited. 
   Within the individual market, and, again, within the individual market I would include self-pay and also that individual who is the owner of a health savings account, within that portion of the market, transparency of information is critical, and that is another area where we are going to see rapid evolution and rapid change. It is going to require that there is adequacy of the reports that detail the information about cost, price, and quality, and they are not all the same. This information has to be linked to data detailing things like complications and infection rates. 
   Web-based programs. We have got a good one in my home State of Texas. Web-based programs will begin to build databases and actually build familiarity with the consuming public so that these will become useful in the future. And www.txpricepoint.org is a Web-based program that is up and functioning in Texas. It's just beginning. Some people will look at it and say, well, that information is really pretty rudimentary, but currently it allows patients, say, in my home county of Denton County where there are four hospitals, to compare the costs of treating a fractured femur, episode of childbirth. How do those four hospitals compare in the area? Is there one that is significantly cheaper or one that is significantly more expensive than its counterparts? Maybe if that information is present, then to begin to ask the questions why and for the consumer to begin digging a little deeper and finding out more information about the hospital, whether or not they want to choose that hospital for their care. Again, not for people who have Medicare, Medicaid, SCHIP, or private insurance, but for the individual who is paying out of pocket or the individual who has a health savings account with a high deductible so, again, is probably paying out of pocket for a portion of their care. This is a useful exercise, and, again, I encourage people, particularly people in my home State of Texas, www.txpricepoint.org. 
   Now, crafting a readily affordable basic package of insurance benefits perhaps modeled after what we already do in the Federally Qualified Health Center program is another important opportunity for reform that this body could look into. Currently, Federally Qualified Health Centers are required to provide a basic level of primary care. They also provide dental and mental health services. Providing a basic package of benefits along this line that is affordable and available with the option of adding on additional benefits at additional costs, that could be a powerful option for many Americans. This could remove some of the influence of some of the special interest groups, which I talked about earlier, and, again, allows us to focus on the patient and certainly allows a functioning business model to replace some of the draconian institutional standards that are now required. 
   Providing a truly affordable basic package of benefits, that coverage which insurance companies then would want to market to segments of the uninsured population, you've got to believe that companies like Aetna, United look at 47 million people who are uninsured and say that's a potential market share. If we only had an affordable product that we could deliver to that population, we actually could perhaps provide a good deal of coverage for that population. 
   Madam Speaker, let's not forget that care that is truly charitable: Organizing and providing a tax credit for donated services by doctors, nurses, even hospitals, I think that is something that is fundamental to the American psyche and something to be readily embraced by the American people.     
   We could provide additional protection under the Federal Tort Claims Act, perhaps a legal safe harbor from lawsuits where, in good faith, charitable care is provided and, in effect, allow providers who are retired or semiretired to return and fill some of the vacuum for indigent care. 
   I had an acquaintance whose father is a physician. Hurricane Katrina hit, obviously, the next-door neighbor State of Louisiana, but a lot of people left Louisiana and came to Texas. There were a lot of areas that were strained in their availability to deliver health care in that time 2 years ago. 
   This acquaintance's dad was a physician. He was a retired physician, no longer carried insurance, and said, well, I'm going to go down to the shelter where these people are being received and offer my services. And my friend was quite concerned about his dad and said, you don't have insurance. If you go down there and something bad happens and you get sued, you have no coverage for that. Maybe we ought to provide a mechanism for providing that coverage for someone who truly, out of the goodness of their heart, wants to respond to a national emergency, wants to respond to their country in a time of need, allow them the opportunity of doing that. 
   And along those lines, we ought to have a system of emergency credentialing so that when people just show up on a scene of a disaster, whoever is in charge, the first responders in charge will have a way of quickly and rapidly assessing whether this individual, indeed, possesses the credentials that they purport to have. And that would go a long way towards alleviating, frankly, some of the confusion that occurred on the ground in various health care sites, not just in Texas, but back in Louisiana as well. 
   Madam Speaker, the late President Ronald Reagan used to say, ``trust, but verify.'' Trust the market to make correct decisions, and to the extent that distortions can be removed, remove those distortions, but remember that some guidance from market principles will always be required, whether the system is completely public or completely private. 
   Finally, as part of this discussion, there must be a rational breakdown of the numbers of the uninsured. We want to talk about, how do we cover the uninsured? We don't have accurate numbers, not for the total number of the uninsured, but who comprises that population? We just say 47 million uninsured. And we're happy to talk about that in a political sense, but we need the data on the breakdown of those numbers so we know how to better craft policies that will provide coverage that's needed for those individuals. Is it just that some people aren't bothering to buy insurance? Maybe we craft a policy that would encourage them to do that. 
   I don't like mandates. I prefer incentives. Other people may like mandates. But let's have that discussion. But if we don't know how big the population is who just choose not to have health insurance but has the means to pay for it, we will never be able to enter into that discussion because we don't know. We just say 47 million uninsured. We hit each other over the head with it.  We go home at the end of the day and feel like we've done a good job, the American people say not so much. 
   Finally, just a point of contrast. And we've heard it a lot because of our health care discussions this week. My good friends on the other side of the aisle want to expand a culture of dependence on the state, while on my side of the aisle we want to expand the number of individuals who actually own and direct their own care. Which system would you choose? Which system gives you the greater liberty, the greater freedom that we all treasure and cherish as Americans? The answer for me is obvious. 
   Finally, Madam Speaker, we talked about this a little bit at the beginning of this discussion, but the concept of American exceptionalism. The American health care system has no shortage of critics, critics throughout this body, critics throughout the city, critics throughout the world, but it is the American system that stands at the forefront of innovation and new technology, precisely the types of system-wide changes that are going to be necessary to efficiently and effectively provide care for Americans today and on into the future. 
   Now, Madam Speaker, I would rather this information not be widely disseminated, but from time to time I pick up and read the New York Times. An article in the New York Times from October 5, 2006, a year ago, by an individual named Tyler Cowlan, he writes, ``When it comes to medical innovation, the United States is the world's leader. In the past 10 years, 12 Nobel Prizes in medicine have gone to American-born scientists working in the United States, three have gone to foreign-born scientists working in the United States, and seven went to researchers outside this country; 15-7, America, the rest of the world.'' 
   He goes on to point out that ``five of the six most important medical innovations of the past 25 years have been developed within and because of the American system.'' Now, comparisons with other countries may be useful, it may be information that we want to go out and seek and consider when crafting health care policy, but it is important to remember that it's the American system that's always reinventing itself and always seeking to improve itself. It is precisely because of the tension inherent in our hybrid system that creates the impetus for change. A system that's fully funded by a payroll tax, well, that's what they've got in Sweden. I think it's 7.1 percent that they pay on their payroll tax, and it funds their health care system. But quite honestly, Madam Speaker, there is no reason for them ever to seek improvement; and as a consequence, a system like that faces stagnation. 
   And indeed, if such a system, if it becomes necessary to control costs, guess where they look? Doctor, they look at you. They look at the provider. You know this. It's happening in the Medicare system, cuts projected for as far as the eye can see. Make no mistake about it, if the Democrats are successful with this SCHIP system that they are proposing to vastly expand, it's going to drive kids off of private health insurance onto an SCHIP program. The difficulties faced by providers within the Medicare system on an ongoing basis are certainly witness to this. 
   The fact is, Madam Speaker, the United States is not Europe. American patients are accustomed to wide choices when it comes to hospitals, physicians and pharmaceuticals. Because our experience is unique and because it's different from other countries, this difference should be acknowledged and embraced when it comes time to talk about reform or transformation, whether it's contemplated in a purely public or private health insurance model within this country. 
   One final point that's illustrated in a recent news story that was covered by a national Canadian television broadcaster about a Canadian Member of Parliament who sought treatment for cancer within the United States. The story itself is not particularly unique, but the online comments that followed the story I thought were pretty instructive. 
   To be sure, a number of the respondents felt that it was unfair to draw any conclusion because this was, after all, an individual who was ill and was seeking treatment. 
   No argument with that concept. I hope she got the treatment that she sought, and I certainly pray that she got better. No one could argue this point. But one writer summed it up, ``She joins a lengthy list of Canadians who go to the United States to get treated. Unfortunately, the mythology that the state-run medicine is superior to that of the private sector takes precedent over the health of individual Canadians.'' 
   A further comment from another individual: ``The story here isn't about those who get treatment in the United States. It's about a liberal politician who is part of a political party that espouses the Canadian public system and vows to ensure that no private health care is going to usurp the current system. She is a Member of Parliament for the party that relentlessly attacked conservatives for their ``hidden agenda'' to privatize health care. The irony and the hypocrisy in that position supports the notion that the rich get health care and the rest of us wait in line. All because liberals' fear-mongering that does not allow for a real debate on the state of the health care system in Canada.'' 
   One final note from the online postings, ``It's been sort of alluded to, but I hope everyone who is reading this story realizes that, in fact, we do have a two-tiered system in Canada. We have public care in Canada. And for those who have lots of cash, we've got private care in the United States, which is quicker and better.'' 
   Well, Madam Speaker, a little over a year ago, maybe now a year and a half ago, Alan Greenspan came and talked to a group of us one morning before he left Capitol Hill. And as it often happens with Chairman Greenspan, the talk came around to entitlements and entitlement spending. And the question got around to Medicare, how are we going to pay for Medicare. And the chairman acknowledged this is going to be a tough problem. But after he thought about it, he also said, ``When it comes time, I think that the Congress is going to end up doing the right thing and it will find a way to pay for Medicare.'' He said, ``What concerns me more is, will there be anyone there to actually deliver the services that you want?'' That's a pretty profound statement, and one that certainly has stuck with me for the past year and a half or more. 
   Now, in March of this year, back in my home State of Texas, the official magazine of the Texas Medical Association, Texas Medicine, put out a story. In fact, their cover story that month was, ``Running Out of Doctors.'' I think that's something we need to pay some attention to in this body. With all of our discussion about health care reform, all of our talk about changing the system this way or that way, more public, less public, more private, less private, if we ain't got the docs on the front line, it doesn't matter what we do because the care won't be there for the patients. We see this in the Medicare system. There is probably no other issue that I deal with with more frequency than the program cuts that are going to happen to Medicare physicians, again, literally, as far as the eye can see; 5 percent cut this year, 5 percent cut next year, oh, by the way, we've got to make up that 10 percent cut from last year. The problem is, the formula by which we pay physicians is different from the formula by which we reimburse hospitals, HMOs, drug companies and nursing homes. 
   Bear with me for just a moment because, wouldn't you know it, I have a poster that illustrates that. And I apologize, this one has gotten a little bit dated. The 2007 number has an asterisk beside it because that was projected, and now we're well into 2007. 
   This didn't happen because we held it back at zero. So it looks like there is no recording here for physician reimbursement under 2006; in fact, it was held at zero. Again, by a last-minute maneuver last year, we held it at zero for 2007 as well. 
   2002, pretty big cut. We did some last-minute changes in 2003, 2004 and 2005, which prevented the program cuts. We were unable to come up with any additional money in 2006 and 2007. Now, for 2008 and 2009, move this bar graph over a notch for those 2 years because that, after all, is what we're looking at, Medicare Advantage, hospitals, nursing homes, they're basically reimbursed on a cost of living adjustment, it's called the Medicare Economic Index. Physicians ought to be reimbursed on the  Medicare Economic Index, but they're not, and we need to fix that. It's not easy to fix it. It's going to cost some money. The Congressional Budget Office puts a very big number up there. Deep down in my heart I don't believe it's a real number, but nevertheless, we do need to be sensitive to that fact and we do need to fix it. 
   I would encourage Members to look at H.R. 2585. It is a way to sanely repeal the sustainable growth rate. It doesn't do it next year, waits a couple of years to do it, but because of some adjustments to the baseline, physicians won't, in fact, take a cut for 2008 and 2009. We need to keep them involved. And then in 2010, the SGR is repealed, with savings that are going to occur over the next 2 years. And we know savings are going to occur in the Medicare program over the next 2 years because that's the history that we've seen in the last several years. 
   The trustees' report that came out just this past June had some good news and some bad news. The bad news was, we're still going broke; but the good news is we're going to go broke a year later than what we told you last year. The reason is because 600,000 hospital beds weren't filled in 2005 that they thought would be filled in 2005. And why weren't they filled? Because the doctors were doing a better job. They were keeping people out of the hospital. Maybe the prescription drug benefit was allowing them for more timely treatment of disease, to treat disease earlier. So we didn't push them on that health disease continuum in the arena of disease, we kept them on the side of health. Things that are done in ambulatory surgery centers that are billed to part B, the physicians' part of Medicare, are actually savings that accrue in part A. Let's take those savings, sequester them, wall them off, a lock box, like we used to talk about back in 2000. Remember that? Put those savings in a lock box and use them to offset the cost of repealing the SGR in 2010.     
   That is the type of innovative thinking that is going to be required to get us out of this conundrum. And why is it important? Again, Alan Greenspan said, ``What worries me more is not how you pay for it, but is there going to be anyone there at the bedside to provide the service?'' 
   I don't want to make light of what is a very serious situation. Yeah, there will always be someone there at the bedside, but I don't know that you want to look up and find it is Dr. Nick who is delivering your care, Dr. Nick, the famous physician from Springfield, Somewhere, U.S.A. who can do any operation for $199.95. That may be the physician of the future. We don't want to leave that legacy for our children. We need to correct this situation now. We can do it in this Congress if we just have the political will to work together to get this done. 
   Now, my time is almost up. This discussion on health care is likely to consume the better part of the next 2 years of both dialogue here on the floor of the House, dialogue on the Presidential campaign trail, and indeed dialogue in the general public. The United States is, indeed, at a crossroads. It is incumbent on every one of us here who believes, who believes in the American system of providing health care, that we be educated and we stay involved and we be committed to being at the top of our game every single day, whether we agree on every principle or not. We have to be on the top of our game every single day. 
   This is one of those rare instances where it is necessary, certainly on my side, to be prepared to win the debate because we don't have the votes to win much of anything in subcommittee, committee or the House floor. But it is an important topic. It is one of that the American people believe that we should be involved in. 
   If we adhere to the principles that I have outlined here this evening, I think that ultimately we are going to post a win for the health of the American people and for generations yet to come. That is the central task in front of us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009 -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chairman, the amendment I am offering tonight provides $400 million towards new construction projects. This money will be used to put American workers, pipe fitters, engineers, construction workers to work and build refineries that produce the specialized types and grades of fuel used by each branch of the service for their equipment. The refineries will be located on existing or former bases under the purview of the Department of Defense, and will represent the first refineries built in the United States since 1976. And the time to do it is now. 
   The Air Force isn't going to have a fleet of plug-in hybrid fighter jets, and the Navy isn't going to have a solar battleship in the near future. They need fuel, plain and simple. 
   Investing in critical infrastructure and protecting the Nation are our top responsibilities in the Federal Government. Today I am offering an amendment that provides Federal funds for the construction and design of one refinery for each branch of the military to produce the petroleum products required by that branch, combining these two critical roles for the public good. 
   Prices are high. So is demand. Let's address both sides of the energy equation, and let's put our Americans back to work to help the military protect the Nation. 
   We have heard a lot about exploring and drilling for American sources of energy. Hands down, Americans agree on this point. It is an 80 percent issue across the country and, indeed, it is even higher in my district and other districts of north and central Texas. Polls show the vast majority of Americans favor drilling offshore in the ANWR. 
   The United States Department of Defense is straining under record high prices. In 2007, with operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, the United States armed service consumed 16 gallons of fuel per soldier per day, or about $3 million worth of fuel every day. That is a lot of fuel, and that is a lot of opportunity for American energy and American jobs. 
   But this is not regular gasoline. All military planes, vehicles, generators and heavy equipment in areas of foreign operation use jet petroleum to avoid transporting and carrying different fuel grades and accidentally putting the wrong type of fuel in their equipment. 
   Right now global refineries are operating at a very tight capacity. This, in turn, limits the quantity of gasoline and other products that they can produce. This squeeze impacts the consumers, domestic refiners and the military as the cost of refining comprises between 10 and 20 percent of the price at the pump. It means the taxpayers are getting hit with higher costs twice, and it also leaves military fuel supplies vulnerable to disruptions from terrorist attacks and natural disasters. 
   And then there's the question of importing refined products. We already heard under the colloquy about how important it is to use an American product, American-made steel. Well, how about we use American-made gasoline? Use the gasoline that is produced here in America. 
   Domestic refinery production has declined as industry operates with tight profit margins and lower inventories of crude oil to cut gasoline costs, and these constraints mean a greater proportion of gasoline demand has to be met with imported products. We know what that means. We buy it from people who don't like us. We are funding both sides in the war on terror. 
   Four of five of the top suppliers of military fuel are foreign companies or foreign state-owned entities. This poses a serious threat to our national and our economic security and must be addressed. 
   Let me stress that this is a win/win for America. These military specific refineries could produce and protect specialized military fuels from capacity limitations that squeeze supply and increase prices for everyone; would free up commercial refining capacity and ensure that we are not forced to outsource a significant portion of our defense when we buy from foreign refineries. 
   Military commanders say you can't kick behind without tanker gas, or something like that. The Air Force isn't going to have a fleet of plug-in hybrids, as I already said. Our national defense and our national economic security are too important to risk on shortages of refinery capacities when we are faced with natural disasters. 
   We have a Strategic Petroleum Reserve. What good is it if there is no strategic way to refine it? 
   And this amendment would provide the beginning of that strategic way to put the refineries in areas that are already cleared environmentally, already have the security in place, and it makes sense. 
   We have also heard tonight that we need to pass a clean bill. It is important to get this bill done because our veterans and our military need the monies that will be appropriated in this bill, and I agree with that very much. It is my understanding this bill has been ready to go for 4 or 5 weeks. 
   I don't know why we have not seen fit to bring it up before tonight. I don't know why we had to bring it up under a modified closed rule. But those are the rules the majority has set. Those are the rules under which we will play. 
   So I thank the chairman for hearing this amendment. I think it is an important concept that needs to be furthered. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009 -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chairman, I will not dispute the point of order. I believe that the amendment is germane because it is a military construction bill. But I understand the concept of authorizing. I would point out Congressional Budget Office does score this as a savings, so as the old saying goes, it doesn't cost, it pays. And I was willing to offer this money in the spirit of bipartisanship. But also in the spirit of bipartisanship I will, at this time, ask unanimous consent to withdraw the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - December 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I come to the floor tonight to talk, as I often do, a little bit about health care, the state of health care in this country, where we are, where we've been, where we're going. 
   Tonight, I do want to focus on one particular issue that is before this Congress. It's a critical issue facing our doctors in this country who provide care for Medicare patients, because if this Congress does not act before midnight on December 31, those physicians are facing a rather significant reimbursement reduction, and that would have an adverse affect on their ability  to see patients, to care for patients and, indeed, would have an adverse effect upon access. 
   So I do want to spend some time talking about that, why that is the case and what we in this Congress can do about it and what we need to do about it. And again, that action has to take place prior to December 31 of this year. It's not something we can punt into next year and then come back and try to collect our thoughts and make another run at it. We have to fix it with the time we have remaining in this first half of this Congress. 
   Another issue that I want to address is the issue of the physicians workforce. Of course, the Medicare reimbursement rates directly affect the physician workforce, but we can't forget physicians who are at the very beginning of their training, physicians in residency, and we certainly can't forget those individuals who might even be contemplating a career in health care and how can we help them make the correct decisions. 
   I do want to talk a little bit and focus a little bit on medical liability reform because that does play an integral role in the overall quality and makeup of the physician workforce. 
   I'd like to talk a little bit about the history of medicine, some of the things that have happened in the last 100 years and some of the things I see just happening and just over the horizon as we begin the dawn of the 21st century. 
   And finally, I do think we need to talk a little bit about the status of the uninsured and, again, some of the other current events that surround health care in this Congress. 
   Madam Speaker, we pay doctors in our Medicare system under a formula known as the sustainable growth rate formula, and this has been the case for the past several years, and it has led to problems, certainly every year that I have been in this Congress, and I took office in January of 2003, and the problems actually predate that for some time. 
   The difficulty with that formula is it ties physician reimbursement rates to a number based upon the gross domestic product which, in fact, has no bearing on the cost of delivery and the volume and intensity of medical services delivered. 
   And Medicare, of course, many people know Medicare is supposed to be an integrated program but, in fact, in many ways it is high load. You have part A that's paid for with a payroll deduction just much the same as Social Security. Part A, of course, covers hospitalization expenses. 
   Part B covers physician expenses. That is paid for out of member premiums that citizens purchase every year, and it is paid for out of, 25 percent by law by the premium dollar and 75 percent comes out of general revenue. 
   Part C, the recently enacted Medicare prescription drug benefit, had money budgeted for that purpose. Remember that was all the fight of November of 2003 when we enacted that law, but money was actually on the budget and dedicated for that purpose. And those moneys exist and, indeed, are appropriated automatically year over year. I beg your pardon, part C is the Medicare HMO. Part D is Medicare prescription drug. Part C is funded again, likewise, out of the general Treasury. 
   Part A, part C and part D each have essentially a cost-of-living adjustment that's made every year. So that the cost of delivering the care doesn't exactly keep up, but it more or less keeps up with the costs and with medical inflation, but not so part B, which pays the physician. And the part B part of Medicare is governed under this sustainable growth rate formula. 
   And really, Madam Speaker, I know I'm not supposed to talk to Members directly, only supposed to address the Chair, and I will confine my remarks to the Chair, but just talking to the Chair, if I were able to talk to people directly, I know I run some risk of people turning off their televisions, but I do want to take you through what is known as the sustainable growth rate formula because I think it's instructive. Even though not every person can understand every nuance of the formula, I think it's instructive to actually look how the formula is constructed and how we come up with the dollar figure every year. 
   Madam Speaker, I know people who are particularly astute will notice there is a typographical error on this graphic. I would point out that the typographical error was actually made by the Congressional Research Service and not by my crack staff. Again, the very gifted will be able to pick that up right away, but we'll get to that in just a moment. 
   Here's the calculation of the payment formula under the physician's fee schedule. Here we see payment equals and here's a whole bunch of letters that follow along, and the explanations are given underneath the formula. The relative value unit for work versus, rather multiplied by a geographic index; a relative value unit for practice expenses, again multiplied by another fudge factor for geographical location and geographical practice expenses; a relative value unit for the cost of medical liability insurance, again also adjusted for geographic location; all multiplied then by what's called the conversion factor, CF, at the end. And this CV down here actually should say CF, and that would stand for ``conversion factor.'' 
   Well, that's all very interesting, and obviously the conversion factor plays a big role in this, so let's just dig a little bit deeper into how that conversion factor or that adjustment factor is calculated. And here we see a sample calculation for the formula for the year 2007, and again, we won't get into all of the nuances of this formula, but you see the update adjustment factor, UAF, the prior year adjustment component plus a cumulative adjustment component, and the formula for 2007 is calculated as follows, where the target 2006 minus the actual spending in 2006 divided by actual spending in 2006 multiplied again by conversion factor. 
   I want to draw your attention, Madam Speaker, though, to the fact that every year the prior adjustment component, and then added into that is the cumulative adjustment component, that's significant, because every year for the past 5 years that I have been here the United States Congress has come in at the last minute, at the last minute with some way to prevent these physician cuts from going into effect. 
   But as the Congressional Budget Office calculates this number year over year, this cumulative adjustment component grows over time such that we are told in order to repeal the cost of repeal of the sustainable growth rate formula, when I first came to Congress in 2003 was around $118 billion over 10 years.     
   A pretty significant amount of money, no question about it. But that number has increased with every year that we have postponed the cut, that we have come in at the last minute, the last of December and prevented the cuts from happening. Those moneys actually don't just go away. The moneys that were to be saved in that cut don't just disappear. The Congressional Budget Office adds them onto the total expense of the repeal of the sustainable growth rate formula such that the price tag for repeal of the sustainable growth rate formula last year, the last session of Congress, when I introduced a bill to repeal the sustainable growth rate formula, was $218 billion. It increased almost $100 billion over 3 or 4 years' time, and this year is calculated to be $268 billion. If we do manage to get something done before the end of the year, those moneys again the Congressional Budget Office will add on with that cumulative adjustment component. 
   One last graphic on this issue is the calculation of the update of the conversion factor, where, again, we see the current year is equal to the prior year plus the conversion factor update. And the conversion factor update is calculated as being 1 plus the Medicare economic index increase divided by 100, multiplied by 1 plus the updated adjustment factor. 
   You can see this is pretty complicated stuff, and for that reason many Members, when you try to talk to them about changes in the sustainable growth rate formula, will just simply tune you out because we all have a little place where we put in our minds things that are too hard to deal with. And the SGR formula is one of those things that most Members will put into the too hard box. It's something that I have got to come back to later because I really don't understand it. And it is  an understandable human reaction to a situation that's terribly complex. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, let me just illustrate for you what will happen if Congress does not do its duty and does not do something to prevent the physician cuts, the Medicare payment cuts, that are already on line to occur January 1 unless Congress acts legislatively prior to that time. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services on November 1 of this year, after running through the formula, they said, okay, this year based on what we budgeted for and what the actual spending was, we are going to have to downwardly adjust physician payment rates by 10.1 percent. That's 10.1 percent, a pretty significant amount of money. If we don't do something, that's what is going to hit January 1. 
   You say, well, okay, Medicare payments aren't that great anyway and a lot of physicians' offices don't rely just strictly on the Medicare reimbursement they get to keep their doors open; so it won't really affect my doctor's practice. But one of the things that we forget in this House of Representatives, one of the things that we just conveniently again stash away in that part of our brains where we put things that are too hard, almost every commercial insurance company in the United States pegs their reimbursement rates to Medicare. So what happens when Congress or the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services mandates a 10 percent physician fee cut in Medicare and we don't do anything to correct it before the end of the year? That has an extremely deleterious effect on almost every practicing physician's office in this country. There are very few who will be absolutely isolated from that. I realize some in academic medicine may not actually feel it. Some doctors who practice in federally qualified health centers may not see that or may not feel it. But the bulk of the practicing physicians, the men and women who are out there every day seeing us when we get sick, seeing our kids when they get sick, those are the ones who are going to feel the brunt of this inactivity by this Congress. 
   I bring this up tonight not because we were inherently any better at doing it when the Republicans were in charge, but it's so important to get this work done and to get it done in the limited time that we have left this year. 
   I introduced just this week a resolution in the House of Representatives, House Resolution 863 for those who are keeping score at home, and House Resolution 863 is a pretty simple bit of legislative language. I will be honest. It doesn't do a whole lot. It doesn't really save any money. It doesn't spend any money. It's more or less like sending a get well card to the doctors who participate in our Medicare system and take care of our seniors. But the sentiment, just like when you send a get well card, the sentiment is important. And for Members who feel they could sign onto this bill, I think it would send a powerful message to House leadership over the next several days if we could, in fact, put a number of names with this House Resolution because I think that would get the attention of leadership. Even though leadership is of the other party than myself, I think they would have to pay attention if the bulk of the Members of House of Representatives sign onto this resolution. 
   And the resolution, as most go, is multiple whereases followed by a ``resolved.'' And the resolved says that it is the sense of the United States House of Representatives to immediately address this issue, the physician pay cuts under SGR, and halt any scheduled cuts to Medicare physician payments and immediately begin working on a long-term solution, and implement it by 2010, that pays physicians a fair and stable way and ensures Medicare patients have access to the doctor of their choice. 
   Fairly simple language. What does it mean? It means stop the cuts, repeal the SGR. We know we can't repeal the SGR straight up right now, that it will take a time line in order to do that, and that is why I suggest 2010. I would be open to other suggestions. But that seems like a good time line for us to follow. It gives us a little over 2 years to get that done. 
   When we face a problem as complicated as the formula that I put up in front of you tonight, some of those things are just too difficult to tackle head-on all at once. So you need a near-term, a mid-term, and a long-term strategy to deal with these very complicated problems, and I have outlined it here tonight. The near-term, the short-term strategy, stop the cut. Find some money. There's plenty of money. In a $3 trillion budget, you tell me we can't find someplace to save some money in a $3 trillion budget to pay the doctors what they are fairly owed for taking care of the patients we have asked them to take care of. 
   So the near-term solution is stop the cuts. The mid-term solution is we sit down and work together with the common goal of the long-term solution, which is the repeal of the sustainable growth rate formula, and begin to pay physicians on the same sort of schedule that we pay our hospitals, that we pay our HMOs, that we pay our drug companies. Put them on a cost-of-living-type adjustment. It's called the Medicare economic index. It's not something that is unique to me. I didn't make it up. I didn't make up the term of how it is calculated. But this is a known number put out by the Medicare Payment Advisory Committee, and year over year it suggests a modest update in physician reimbursement to keep up with the cost of delivering care. 
   Let's be honest. From a Federal Government standpoint, Medicare reimbursement rates were never meant to match private insurance rates. Someone explained to 
   me one time if you practice medicine and do a lot of Medicare, you're going to go broke. You'll just go broke a little more slowly because we bleed you to death more slowly. Not a pleasant analogy, but Medicare never has been designed to completely cover the cost of delivering the care. The problem is we have now ratcheted that number down so far that physicians across the country are honestly looking at the situation and saying I don't think that this is something that I can legitimately continue to do. I've got to find other ways to make a living. 
   It's House Resolution 863, and I do urge Members to look that up on-line. It's up on Thomas. Have a look at it and see if it is not something that you can't support because, again, I think it would send a powerful message to House leadership. If over the next several days prior to the time that we are slated to adjourn for this year, I think it would send a powerful message that Members of the House want this fixed. And I know they do because every time I talk to a Member of the House, whether it be on my side of the aisle or the Democratic side of the aisle, if you just ask a simple, straightforward question: Do you ever hear from your doctors? Do your doctors ever talk to you about what is happening to them in Medicare reimbursement? And the answer is almost immediately, Oh, yes, I hear it all the time. Do you have something that will fix that? And the answer is, Yes, sort of. I've got something that will focus our attention, I hope, on getting this problem resolved. 
   It's a shame we didn't take this up earlier in the year. I introduced several pieces of legislation to try to do that both in the last Congress and in this Congress. It's a shame we didn't take it up this year. It seems like many times this year we'd rather fight about almost anything we can think of to fight about and not solve the problems that the American people sent us here to solve. Well, here's one we can work on, and cosponsoring House Resolution 863 would go a long way toward moving us in that direction. 
   Let me just put up another slide, and this one is a little bit dated. This slide is a year old, and I should update it for the current year except that I don't know what is going to happen in the current year. But this is illustrative. This is demonstrative of what happens to physician reimbursement rates under the sustainable growth rate formula for physicians. And this is a comparative payment analysis of the various updates that have gone on since 2002, the year before I came to Congress. And this particular graph goes up through an estimated fiscal year 2007. And, again, actually it needs to be updated for this year. 
   But as you can see, Medicare Advantage plans, they're doing pretty good. Hospitals, it's up and down a little bit, but generally their market basket update that they receive every year is hitting about 3.6 to 3.8 percent, and all  in all the hospitals are doing generally well under that scenario. Nursing homes, a little less generous. And, again, it does bounce up and down a little bit. But as you can see, year over year a positive update, certainly a positive update that's in excess of 2 percent. And many times for nursing homes it approaches 3 percent. 
   But look over here at the doctors in 2002, and this was the last year I was practicing medicine. And sure enough, we got a 5.4 percent pay cut just right across the board for any Medicare procedure that we performed. 
   Now, for the next several years, 2003, 2004, and 2005, we did manage to find the money to provide a little bit of a positive update. Notice even in these years when physician practices were flush with cash from Medicare payments, they really never even approached what nursing homes were receiving in updates and certainly were nowhere near what hospitals and Medicare Advantage plans received. Medicare Advantage plans, I would point out, did not exist prior to 2004. That's why they start with that darker line there. 
   Then in 2006 there is nothing recorded on the physicians. We euphemistically termed that a zero percent update. Anything else that we do in the Federal Government, if we say we are going to hold you at level funding for this fiscal year, people would be coming out of the woodwork crying that's a cut, that's a cut because you're not keeping up with the cost of living. It didn't seem to bother us a bit to do that to America's physicians. But at least a zero percent update is a whole lot better than that what was originally proposed in 2007, which was, again, about a 5 percent negative update. We actually were able to stave this one off and keep that again at a zero percent update for 2007. And now for this next year, 2008, whatever color we decide to put on the bar for that will dip down to almost the bottom of the chart because a 10.1 percent negative update is going to have a significant deleterious effect, a significant pernicious effect on our practicing physicians. Again, our physicians that we have asked to take on the burden of seeing our Medicare patients. 
   Now, I do spend a lot of time on the floor of this House talking about physicians workforce issues. This is the cover of the March 2007 periodical that is put out by my State medical society, the Texas Medical Association, appropriately titled ``Texas Medicine.'' And the cover story last March was ``Running Out of Doctors.'' And this was a fairly significant graphic for me when I saw that at the time.     
   About a year before this publication came out, Alan Greenspan, in one of his last trips around the Capitol right as he was retiring as Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Chairman Greenspan came and talked with a group of us one morning. And the inevitable question came up, how are we ever going to find the funding for the unfunded obligations that Congress has taken on? How are we going to pay for Medicare when the baby boomers retire? And the Chairman thought about it for a moment and he said, you know, ``when the time comes, I trust that Congress will make the correct decisions, and that the Medicare program will continue.'' He stopped for a moment, thought some more, and then added to that, ``What concerns me more is, will there be anyone there to deliver the services when you want them?'' And that is one of the critical issues facing us today. 
   And of course it's this inequity in supply and demand, supply and distribution of the physician workforce that's driving a lot of the problems that we find in health care today. And no question it has some effect of elevating prices, and just the fact that it takes so long to get in to see some types of physicians. There was a very compelling article here in the Washington area a few months ago about the travails and toils a reporter had with trying to get their child in to see a pediatric neurologist. You hear these sorts of stories. I travel, not a lot, but some around the country to visit with medical groups in the country, and you will hear all those stories from all over the country. It's not unique to one geographic location. 
   Three bills that were introduced earlier this year to deal with physician workforce issues, H.R. 2583, H.R. 2584 and H.R. 2585. Now, H.R. 2585 deals with what I like to term ``the mature physician.'' So, it deals a lot with the sustainable growth rate formula and the inequities of the sustainable growth rate formula as it pertains to how the Federal Government compensates its medical workforce. 
   The thrust behind 2585 was to, again, take that short-term, mid-term and long-term approach to the problem such that we would fix the problem, we would stop the cuts in 2008 and 2009 and 2010. We would gear towards absolute repeal of the SGR formula. Again, remember I said that it's going to cost money when that time comes. And that has always been the difficulty when trying to talk to Members about, I want you to help me repeal the SGR. The next question always is, Well, how much does it cost? You tell them, and, oh, my gosh, it's a bridge too far. We've got other priorities and we just can't get there. Well, let me tell you a little secret. That money that we have to come up with to repeal the sustainable growth rate formula, guess what? We've already spent that money. We've already sent that money to physicians' offices across this country and they've already spent it. 
   So, it is merely a bookkeeping adjustment that the Congressional Budget Office has to make to reconcile its books to compensate for, remember, that cumulative index that I showed you, one of those earlier poster boards. That is the difficulty. It's essentially a bookkeeping entry that has not yet been made. The money has been spent, it's gone. It's not sitting somewhere in the Federal Treasury drawing interest. It is a bookkeeping entry that has yet to be made. 
   We have to take this on. We have to do this. It's the moral thing to do; it's the right thing to do. We want our Medicare patients taken care of. They are arguably some of the most complex clinical situations that a doctor encounters on a daily basis, and we ought to do the right thing. 
   Now, how do you do that and be able to encourage Members to look at this seriously when the published price tag is so large? When I initially tried to do this in the last Congress, a bill I introduced called 5866, when, remember the cost of repeal was $216 billion, I thought at that time perhaps the correct way to go about this was just to work on the repeal straight up, maybe look for the pay-fors later as we got toward the conclusion of the process. And I was hopeful that hospitals, nursing homes, other medical entities that draw on Medicare funding would perhaps come forward with their own suggestions of where savings could be made because I don't think there is a single person in this Congress who doesn't feel that there are some inefficient ways that the Federal Government spends money in the Medicare system, and perhaps if we collected those together, we could find the monies to help cushion the offset expense of repealing the sustainable growth rate formula. But I was wrong, no one was willing to come forward. And as a consequence, I never really got the traction or the momentum that I needed on 5866. And again, the 109th Congress ran out before we could get anything done. 
   So, early in this Congress I thought, I need to get something out there quickly. I need to get people to understand this problem. We certainly don't need to leave it until the last minute this year, but unfortunately that's what has transpired. So, the idea behind 2585, introduced earlier this year, was to get that concept out there earlier, get Members talking about it. 
   How was I going to approach it? Well, 2008 and 2009, remember, we don't repeal the SGR. So, many doctors looked at that and said, Well, if you don't repeal the SGR formula in 2008 and 2009, I'm going to take significant hits those years, and I can't afford to do that. But actually, there is another bookkeeping entry you can do; it's called readjusting or resetting the baseline on the SGR formula. And by doing that, you actually then can score a modest positive update for 2008 and 2009 for physicians who participate in this program. In fact, interestingly enough, in 2008, it's almost equal to the Medicare Economic Index update. In 2009, it's a little bit less than that, but still a positive update, a fairly generous positive update of just under 1 percent for 2009.  
   During those 2 years' time, the run-up to the repeal of the sustainable growth rate formula, we recognize that we are saving money, we are doing things better in medicine today than we did yesterday. And how do I know this? What is a metric that I can use? Well, the Medicare Trustees Report that came out in June of this year pointed out that the bad news is Medicare is still going broke, but the good news is it's going to go broke a year later than what we told you the year before. So in other words, somewhere along the line there had been some savings in the Medicare system. And where did that savings occur? Well, one of the places it occurred, as identified in the Trustees Report, was 600,000 hospital beds weren't filled in the year 2005 that were expected to be filled. Why weren't they filled? They weren't filled because, again, the doctors were doing things on a more timely basis, more accurate diagnoses, the whole ability to timely treat disease with the prescription drug benefit now available for seniors in the Medicare program. All of these things had a bearing, and as a consequence, more patients were treated as outpatients, treated in the doctor's office, perhaps treated in an ambulatory surgery center, perhaps treated in a day surgery center, but these patients were kept out of the hospitals, and so those hospitalizations were avoided. 
   Remember when I talked about the funding silos for Medicare. Although we will talk about Medicare as an 
   integrated program, part A, which pays for the hospital expense, is funded out of a payroll deduction just like the FICA tax, just like Social Security. Part B is funded out of member premiums and general revenue. By law, only 75 percent of it can be funded out of general revenue; 25 percent of that number has to come from member premiums. 
   So, if we're saving money on the hospital side, we're saving money for part A. But why are we saving the money? We're saving the money because we're working better, smarter, faster in part B. So it would only make sense to have CMS identify those savings that right now are going on the books as savings for part A, identify those savings, aggregate those savings, collect those savings, and use them to offset the cost of repealing the sustainable growth rate formula in part B. 
   You know, remember, Madam Speaker, the lock box from the year 2000, in the Presidential race everyone was talking about a lock box and they were going to put Social Security in a lock box, and with all the discussion of whose lock box was bigger than whose? But we've still got the lock box. We can put these savings that we're creating in part A, put them in a lock box, 2 years later open it up, and we offset some of the cost of paying down the so-called debt in repealing the SGR formula. 
   There were some other things that I identified in the bill as other ways to perhaps enhance savings. Certainly we asked CMS to try to identify the 10 diagnoses where most of the money was spent, and let's really focus our efforts on those 10 diagnoses and see if we can't create greater and greater efficiencies in treating those 10 conditions that lead to the greatest expenditures in the Medicare system. And let's look honestly at what we can do on the preventive side. Remember what our mothers always taught us, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. If we want that pound of cure, let's go ahead and spend a little bit for that ounce of prevention on the front end so we don't have to spend so much for that pound of cure on the out end. And then let's take that pound of cure that we've saved and use it to offset the cost of repealing the sustainable growth rate formula. 
   Well, another way we could save some money is, any of the monies that are recovered by the Department of Justice, the Inspector General for Health and Human Services, and the so-called Medicare audits, money that is fraudulently taken from Medicare and then recovered, again, that's money that's stolen from part B. Let's not just put that money into the coffers of somewhere else. Let's let that accrue as part of the savings that we put in that lock box that we use to offset the cost of repealing the sustainable growth rate formula. 
   Two other things that I did in the bill, which I think are important as far as gaining some overall efficiency in the system, was added some voluntary positive updates for physicians who were willing to voluntarily participate in quality reporting exercises, and physicians' offices who were willing to voluntarily participate in improvements of health information technology. 
   We don't have, and certainly in Congress, certainly the Federal Government does not have all the answers as to what creates the perfect health information technology platform. In many ways, private industry is light years ahead of where the Federal Government is. And maybe, you know, Madam Speaker, some days, honestly, I just wonder if we should get out of the way with some of our regulatory burdens, some or our stark laws and let private industry develop these platforms, because clearly, in the last 5 years that I've been here, we've had a lot of talk, we've had a lot of bills introduced, we've had a lot of debate, we've even passed some bills in the House during the last Congress, but we are no closer to having any sort of a national standard for health information today than we were when I first got here 5 years ago. I believe the individual's name was William Brailer who was in charge of that project. He is now, unfortunately, no longer with Health and Human Services. 
   The project has, for all intents and purposes in my mind, been a disappointment, but it doesn't mean that health information technology has just been stagnant. Other stakeholders, other participants in the health care system in the United States have created and drafted and are working on their individual platforms. And at some point they will reach critical mass in the private sector where there will be general acknowledgement that, yes, this is the health information technology platform of the future and the one to which we all should subscribe. It would have been a useful function of the Federal Government had we been able to do that, but honestly, I don't see us there yet, and I don't see us there in the foreseeable future. You would think the Federal Government would have had a significant role to play in that because if you look at health care expenditures in this country, almost 50 cents out of every health care dollar that's spent in this country has its origin right here on the floor of the House of Representatives. 
   When you consider what we spend in Medicare, what we spend in Medicaid, what we spend in the VA system, what we spend in Indian health service, the Federal prison system, a lot of health care dollars are generated through the authorization, the appropriation process in this Congress. And as a consequence, Congress has a big stake in trying to get some efficiencies and some improvements. But in this instance, in developing the health information technology platform of the future, I almost think that we need to get out of the way and let the entrepreneurs, let the bright folks who can do these tasks, let them proceed with that. 
   Let me just talk about a couple of things that will illustrate that.     
   I will just tell you, Mr. Speaker, I did practice medicine for 25 years. In fact, I started medical school 30 years ago this year in 1974. I can't tell you that I was a big acolyte of electronic medical records when I was a practicing physician. I dabbled in it some. I would listen to people talk who came to sell us various packages. 
   We had to buy a new computer right before the Y2K scare where all of our computers were going to lock up at midnight and we wouldn't be able to get anything done the next day. So like everyone else, I went out and bought a new computer system. I asked what it would cost to add an electronic medical records package on to the basic computer system that I purchased for my five-physician office. The basic computer system itself cost about $60,000 or $70,000. Some other contracts we had to sign for maintenance and upkeep were not cheap. Adding a medical records package to that was 30 to $40,000 for a five-physician practice. Quite honestly, at the time, it seemed way too expensive for a small group such as mine to participate in. So I really wasn't sold on the concept of electronic medical records. Then in the end of August 2005, we saw probably the  worst hurricane to hit the United States that certainly has happened in recorded history, Hurricane Katrina that hit New Orleans, and then the subsequent flooding after the levees broke. Touring New Orleans 5 months later with the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, we were permitted to go into the basement of Charity Hospital into their records room. This was the basement of Charity Hospital. You can see the temporary lighting that they have got strung along the ceiling. There is actually still, it doesn't show in this photograph, there is still water on the floor 5 months into this process. And you can see the paper medical records. There was shelf after shelf after shelf. 
   Remember that Charity Hospital was one of the venerable old institutions in this country. It was one of the hospitals that has trained many of the premier physicians in this country. Charity Hospital had been there for a long time. They had multiple racks and stacks of medical records. But look at these things. This isn't smoke damage. This isn't fire damage. This is black mold that is growing on the paper, on the manila folders and on the paper in the medical records. Clearly, these are medical records that in all likelihood now are lost to the ages. I don't know. The water was up to the top shelf when the building was underwater. A lot of the ink and writing may well have washed off. But you honestly could not ask someone to go in here and pull a record and provide you some of the medical information that might been contained therein, because clearly it would simply be too hazardous to ask anyone to go in there and retrieve it. 
   Well, when I visited the basement of Charity Hospital that day, I became a convert for recognizing that medicine does need to come into the 21st century. It is going to be expensive. There is going to be a learning curve for, again, mature physicians like myself to have to learn this new technology and to have to learn how to use a keyboard. But it would be an investment that we would have to make. 
   I think we have to pay for it. I don't think we can simply say to a doctor's practice, you are going to have to just do this. It is part of the cost of doing business. And although you can't attribute any direct revenue increase to the fact you are making this $100,000 expenditure for a five-physician practice, you are just going to have to spend the money. Well, we are probably going to have to help that. Number one, we are not paying doctors enough, anyway, and number two, if we ask them to go out and do this, there will be a lot of resistance, and a lot of practices just simply won't do it. They will drop out of Medicare and whatever insurance company requires electronic medical records. 
   If we pay for it, if we allow an increase in reimbursement for physicians who voluntarily undertake this kind of training and upgrade, I think that's a very reasonable return on investment. So included in the bill that I introduced to initially repeal the sustainable growth rate formula was a 3 percent positive update for physicians who voluntarily undertake to modernize their recordkeeping and to embark upon the 21st century sojourn of creating electronic medical records. 
   But I think that is the way we have to do it. It has to be voluntary. You can't force people to do these things. You can't force them to learn these techniques. You can't force them to devote the time necessary to learn these techniques. It does have to be done on a voluntary basis. That is the correct way to learn things, not through mandates, but through creating programs that people actually want and getting their participation voluntarily, not because the Federal Government has said thou shalt. 
   Now, it stands to reason that after a certain period of time, part of that funding for that infrastructure will be completed. And this positive update does go away after a period of time, but it does provide a bridge for physicians who are using paper records today. It provides them a bridge, an opportunity to go into a electronic medical record system. 
   The reason I spend so much time on this is we had introduced in the Senate last week a bill that would require electronic prescriptions. Well, it's a good idea. The theory is a sound one, electronic prescriptions. The Institute of Medicine says that doctors' handwriting is terrible. I am here to tell you mine is. The ability, though, to whip off a written prescription takes about 10 seconds. The time involved for filling out an electronic prescription, even on a little handheld is going to be somewhat longer than that, particularly at the beginning of the learning curve. 
   Well, the average physician practice as I had back in 2002, you would have to see between 30 and 40 patients a day in order to pay the overhead and have something to take home at the end of the day. You add a minute or 2 on to every patient's encounter, and that is going to be adding about an hour a day on to that physician's practice time, an hour that they are simply going to be filling out an electronic form for E-prescribing. Clearly, again, they have to be compensated for that time. 
   The bill that was introduced I think recognized that and said there would be a 1 percent update for doctors, a 1 percent bonus for doctors who indeed undertook that. Well, just doing a little bit of the math, a moderately complicated Medicare patient return visit probably didn't pay as much as $50 a visit, but let's say for the sake of argument that is what it paid. Well, a 1 percent bonus for that patient's encounter if you use an electronic prescription will be, what, 50 cents. So you can see about four of those patients in an hour's time, so that is an additional $2 an hour that we are paying for that. It doesn't seem like a lot. I say that, too, because you look at all of the various stakeholders and interest groups, the insurance companies, the pharmacy benefit managers, the community pharmacists who want this done see value in it, and they see the potential for deriving great value, particularly the vendors who are selling the electronic prescribing modules. There is going to be significant financial return for them. 
   So why are we low-balling it at the doctor's end with simply a 1 percent bonus? And then the other part 
   of that concept that I found disturbing was, it was kind of billed as a carrot and stick approach, the carrot was the 1 percent bonus, the stick was when 5 years, 4 years or 5 years, I forget which, Doctor, if you're not doing this, we're going to penalize you 10 percent. So wait a minute. I go from if I do this, I am going to make an extra 50 cents on that patient encounter or $2 an hour additional if I do this. If I don't do it in a few years, I am going to be down $20 an hour for not participating. The inequity of that just strikes me as being, again, ``disturbing'' is probably the kindest word that I can use in this context. I honestly think while, again, I will agree with the theory, the application is flawed, and we have to think of a better way to do that. That is why when I was crafting 2585 it was a voluntary participation. It stayed voluntary. 
   I think if you show physicians that you are able to deliver something of value, eventually, we are a very competitive lot. That is why we become doctors. And we will want to have the practice that has the newest and latest and greatest, and if other physicians' offices, hey, they are doing this e-prescribing and it is great, by the time I get to the pharmacy after my doctor's visit, the order has already been e-mailed to the pharmacist, it's been filled, it is sitting there waiting for me, and the insurance stuff is already filled out, patients are going to see value in that, and they will begin to ask that of their doctors. But to do this in a terribly punitive way, I think we are going to drive more doctors out of taking care of our Medicare patients, and that really should not be our goal. 
   The two other bills I introduced dealing with the physicians workforce dealt with physicians who might be contemplating a career in health professions and dealt with physicians who were in their residencies. We recognize that we are facing a shortage of primary care doctors, a shortage of general surgeons, OB-GYNs, gerontologists. And these bills were geared toward getting more of those doctors to consider medical school, getting more of those newly minted doctors into residency programs near their homes. Because doctors do possess a lot of inertia, and if you train those doctors in the places where they are needed, they are likely to stay within a 50-mile, 100-mile radius of where they  have undergone that training. That is one of the thrusts of the article from the Texas Medicine piece, that doctors do tend to locate close to where they are trained, so if we can expand the number of primary care residencies in medically underserved areas with high-need residencies, we will find that we actually attract more physicians to those areas. That is a vastly preferable way of dealing with some of the manpower shortages than just simply telling people where they have to go. 
   Under the issue of medical liability reform, let me just share briefly some of the experiences we have had in the State of Texas because it has been a good story. The State of Texas in 2003 passed some reforms that were based off of the 1975 law that was passed in the State of California called the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975, you see the acronym for Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act, and this has been an astounding success in the State of Texas. Medical liability insurers were leaving the State in droves. We were down to two liability insurers my last active year of practice 2002, and let me tell you, you don't get much price competition when you have only got two liability insurers in your State. By invoking this bill and passing a constitutional amendment that allowed the bill to stand placing a cap on noneconomic damages, $250,000 for the doctor, $250,000 for the hospital, $250,000 for a second hospital or nursing home, if one is involved, by trifurcating that cap for noneconomic damages, we really feel that we have a system in place that does adequately compensate patients who are injured, and at the same time provide some stability in the medical liability insurance market that they needed to be able to look to Texas as a place where they wanted to do business. And they have. They have come back to the State. We have got many more insurers now than we, in fact, had before the exodus started in the early 2000s. 
   Most importantly, they have come back into the State without an increase in premiums. Texas Medical Liability Trust, my old insurer of record, the premium reductions and the dividends paid back to their shareholders aggregate to about a 22 percent reduction in medical liability insurance. And mind you, my last year of practice, I recall medical liability premiums going up by significant amounts year over year over year, and now we have seen an aggregate 22 percent reduction since passage of this bill in 2003. 
   A lot of times when I talk about medicine, I talk about the fact that I am optimistic. I think medicine is on the cusp of a significant transformation. When you look at the last century, and there was kind of some instructive periods, the period of 1910 when, boy, we are really coming out of the dark ages of medicine. Prior to that time, the accepted methods of practice, blistering, burning and bleeding were what were practiced by physicians, and everyone thought you were a good doctor if you did those things. We were leaving those days behind. We were coming into the time of anesthesia, we were coming into the time of modern blood banking, vaccinations had become available, new ways of looking at public health and public sanitation. And at the same time, all those advances happening in the science of medicine, we had some social change that was occurring as well, and part of it occurred up here at the United States Congress with the commissioning of a group called the Flexner Commission. Ultimately they produced what was called the Flexner Report that directly addressed the discrepancies in medical training and in medical schools across the country. It was the standardization of medical school curricula as a result of the Flexner Report, and albeit that function was then taken over by States, but it was that standardization of medical curricula that allowed for medicine to capitalize on all those good things that were happening around that time. 
   Well, jump ahead to the middle of the 1940s, we are in the middle of the Second World War, penicillin had been discovered a few decades before, but it wasn't really commercially available because no one had really perfected the process. 
   During the war, an American company working in this country was able to produce penicillin on a scale never before imagined. It was cheaply commercially produced for the first time in 1943 or 1944 and, in fact, was available to treat our soldiers who were injured at the landing of Normandy, and many lives and limbs that otherwise would have been lost as a consequence of infection following those wartime injuries were, in fact, saved because of the introduction of penicillin. It went from being a laboratory curiosity to something that was readily available, inexpensive and available to almost any doctor practicing. 
   At the same time, cortisone, again introduced many years ago before but a commercial process developed by Percy Julian, a Ph.D. biochemist, an African-American that we honored in this House during the last Congress because of his contributions to medicine. He developed a way to mass-produce cortisone using a soybean as a precursor. 
   So suddenly you had an antibiotic and you had a potent anti-inflammatory. These two powerful medical tools placed into the hands of our practitioners in this country, and, again, at the same time you had a significant social change because of the Second World War and wage and price controls that President Roosevelt put into place to prevent inflation, those wage and price controls were putting a damper on employers being able to keep their employees satisfied and happy. So they said, look, can we offer benefits like retirement plans and health insurance. The Supreme Court weighed in and said yes, you can, and not only that, you can provide those as a pretax expense.     
   Well, suddenly you go just almost overnight to the era of employer-derived health insurance. And it was extremely popular, extremely popular. It persisted after the war was over and wage and price controls were removed. But, again, it was a time when the science of medicine was changing rapidly and the social structure around medicine was changing rapidly. 
   The same can be said for the middle 1960s. For the first time we had anti-psychotic medications available. Prior to that, we had only restraints to treat people who were badly mentally ill. We also had the introduction of antidepressants. 
   We had the introduction of newer hypertensive drugs. Remember, just a generation before we lost our President, Franklin Roosevelt, to the ravages of unchecked hypertension. In the 1960s we could treat that. 
   At the same time, we had the introduction of Medicare and then subsequently Medicaid. Suddenly the Federal Government had a large and profound footprint and a profound influence over the practice of medicine. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think we are on the cusp of just such a transformational time right now. I think the changes occurring in information technology, the speed with which we learn things, is now unlike any time in this country's past. 
   Think of this: People are going to be able to go and with a relatively inexpensive test have their human genomes sequenced. They will be able to know, as more and more is found out about the human genome, what diseases may pose a risk for them in the future, what things they are not at risk for, powerful information that is going to be in the hands of our patients. 
   They are going to come to the office with this information in hand. It won't be a test that we order them to take or that we request them to take, but think of the difference in the practice of medicine. In the 1980s, I would tell someone a diagnosis. They would ask me what I was going to do about it. In the 1990s, I would give a diagnosis. They would go home, look it up on the Internet and come back and tell me what I was supposed to be doing about it. Now patients are going to come in with genetic information in hand say, this is what I am at risk for. What are you going to do to prevent it, doctor? 
   It will be an entirely different way, an entirely new paradigm, an entirely different way of approaching the practice of medicine, a transformational time. Yet, at the same time, if Congress does not, does not invoke the right policies, Congress is inherently a transactional body. We heard the House Policy Chairman talking about that in the last hour. Congress is inherently transactional. We redistribute income. We take things from one group  and give it to another. The transactional can become the enemy of the transformational. 
   Our former Speaker, Newt Gingrich, is famous for saying ``real change requires real change.'' I believe that to be true. I think that is his second principle of transformation. And, more to the point, this is a time of real change, and medicine is really changing under our feet. Whether we like it or not, whether we think we can control it or not, it doesn't matter. Medicine is changing. That real change requires us to change how we think about and how we approach these problems. The old ways, the SGR formulas of the 20th century, aren't going to work in the 21st century. They cannot be allowed to impede the incredible transformation that stretches before us. 
   Mr. Speaker, before I wrap up, I do want to mention one additional bill that I introduced recently, and Members may want to consider adding themselves as cosponsors. It is H.R. 4190. 
   This is an interesting bill, because we talk in this House about what are we going to do about the uninsured. And we all sit back and think big thoughts about what we are going to do about the uninsured. Well, H.R. 4190 actually moves that process along in kind of a different way. 
   H.R. 4190 would take health insurance benefits away from Members of Congress. Yes, it would provide a voucher to Members of Congress to buy health insurance, but we would no longer be participants in the Federal Employee Health Benefits Plan. We would become uninsured, and it would force us to look at the market, what is available for someone who doesn't have insurance. 
   It might cause us to be a little more clever about some of the things we do in our Tax Code, and perhaps we wouldn't be so punitive toward people who want to individually own their insurance policy as opposed to someone who wants to get it from their employer. So it would be an entirely different way for Members of Congress to approach this problem. Quite honestly, I don't expect a long line of cosponsors when I get back to my office later tonight, but I would like for Members to think about this. 
   It is terribly difficult for us to come up with solutions when we are sitting back in a situation where we are insulated, we are anesthetized, where we are never going to have to face those types of decisions and those types of problems that our constituents face on a daily basis. 
   We also need to be more careful about how we talk about people who are uninsured. We toss around numbers and basically use them as political bludgeons or political wedges. We need to be more specific when we talk about the specific demographic groups that are contained within that large number of people who are labeled ``the uninsured.'' 
   A significant number, 10 percent in some estimates, are people who are university students or just graduated from the university. These are people who are generally healthy and relatively inexpensive to insure. We ought to find a way to make that happen. We ought to find a way to at least allow the possibility and ability for that demographic group to purchase insurance. Twenty percent of the number actually earn enough money to buy health insurance. They just don't see the reason or necessity in doing so. 
   A lot of that is cost driven. It is price driven. We have done things to insurance policies to make them so expensive. We are unequal in our tax treatment for individuals who want to individually own their policies. 
   We need to look at those things, because, again, if we made the product affordable, if we made it desirable, again, if we put products out there that people would actually want, then they are more likely to participate. I think that is vastly, vastly superior to simply saying there is going to be an individual mandate or a State mandate or an employer mandate where people will be required to line up and file into these programs. 
   Let's approach it differently. Let's create the programs so that people want them, rather than creating the condition that forces people into programs that maybe they want and maybe they don't want, but we will never know because we never ask. 
   But we can be more insightful. In fact, we can be more valuable to the American people if we will think about things in terms of who is involved in the demographics of that large group of the number of uninsured, and how can we best approach that in a way that we are producing or providing the environment for them to be able to have that insurance coverage that they desire. 
   Well, there is a lot left unsaid at this point. I do appreciate the indulgence of the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (IRAQ AND THE MIDDLE EAST -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and the notation made of the exception of the last 3 or 4 minutes, and I will do my best to accommodate that. 
   I get asked by a lot of people, why in the world did you make this sixth trip to Iraq in July. You knew what was going on there. What did you expect to see that was going to be different? But I knew we had today's hearing coming up. I knew it was coming down the pike at us fairly fast. I knew the news hadn't been good out of the country of Iraq for about the 10 months before July. I had been in Iraq in July of 2006, had thought there was some measure of success that was beginning to be felt then, but then we had August, September and October, pretty rough months by anyone's estimation. And so I will admit, I was significantly pessimistic when we made that trip back in July. 
   But I knew we were going to hear from General Petraeus today. And I knew that every time I had been to Iraq before I came away learning something that I hadn't seen on CNN or even Fox News. There was information that can only be available to you by going for yourself and looking for yourself, feeling, touching, smelling the situation on the ground. 
   Now, I get a lot of concern from people when I go back home in the district who say, yeah, that's all great what we're doing for Iraq, but we don't know that we care that much about the Iraqis. I will tell the citizens of this country, it is in America's best interest that we succeed. Where we cannot be successful in Iraq, and you've heard other people talk about it this evening, let's be honest, it's not a political party that loses a car, it's not a Congress that loses a war, it's not a President that loses a war, it is a country that loses a war. 
   And again, I reiterate, it is in America's best interests that we be successful because an Iraq that is stable, an Iraq that is able to participate in its own 
   security, an Iraq that is able to act as an ally or partner for peace in  the Middle East, what a difference 20 years from now looks like with that scenario compared with an Iraq where we leave prematurely, descends into chaos, is enveloped by Iran, Syria, Saudi Arabia, you name it. And the chaos that has been evident in Iraq in the past suddenly envelopes the entire Middle East, with a country like Iran emerging as the victor. 
   Now, the surge or the reinforcements that we talked about really since January of this year, I think it's probably worthwhile to just touch on the timeline that we've been through this year. Remember, it was January 26, not that long ago, that General Petraeus was unanimously confirmed by the Senate, sent off with a pat on the back out the door, and no sooner had the door closed behind him when the Senate began sniping and criticizing his activity. He hadn't even gotten into the country yet. 
   Ambassador Crocker. You heard my friend from Georgia talk about the wonderful resume of Ambassador Crocker. Many of us who were here in the spring of 2003 remember Ambassador Crocker as one of those stalwarts who came at 10:30 every morning and briefed us in the Armed Services Committee room, whether we were members of the committee or not, came with General McCrystal and briefed us every morning as to what was going on on the ground in Iraq. And I was really very grateful to Ambassador Crocker for having taken the time to do that so meticulously when the active combat phase was going on. 
   On May 26, we finally passed the emergency funding and Bush signed it into law. Mid-July, we took a trip over to Iraq. Again, I didn't know what I was going to see. I was prepared to accept bad news if bad news was all we were going to find. But the reality was the city of Ramadi, which was absolutely off limits to me in July 2006, that's the first place we went. After we landed in Baghdad, we got on the Black Hawk helicopter and immediately went to the city of Ramadi, had a briefing by the Second Marine Expeditionary Force, had a briefing by Colonel Jacobsen there on the ground. After the briefing, instead of just shaking hands and parting ways, we went downtown. We went to the market. We walked through the market. We talked to children in the market. We saw things for sale in the market. We talked to a man who was concerned that one of our JDAMs fell on his building. And I will tell you, it doesn't do much to drive up a deal if that happens to your building. 
   But nevertheless, we had a very one-on-one, close-up discussion with Iraqis on the street in Ramadi. And a year ago, no one in their right mind would have taken a Member of Congress to Ramadi; it was far too dangerous. 
   Now, you can imagine how gratified I was. We got back. We got a call from the White House, and we were invited down to present our findings. I even tried to downplay it a little bit; well, there's some good news, but we've got to be careful because we've had nothing but bad news out of Iraq. And then a week later, two guys from the Brookings Institution, a place that I don't normally agree with, two guys from the Brookings Institution come up with an op-ed that says, this is a war we just might win. 
   Throughout all of that, for the last week we have seen the steady drumbeat of efforts to undermine the credibility of General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker prior to their hearing today. 
   Today, we did have the House hearing, tomorrow there is going to be the Senate hearing. Arguably, there was not a whole lot new that was discussed because everything had been leaked in the New York Times in the weeks leading up to the hearing. And General Petraeus did say that he expected there was a possibility he would bring one of the Marine units home before the end of September, and that there was reason to be optimistic if things continued on this course, there was reason to be optimistic that other troops could be brought home early, beginning in December, much prior to fulfilling the 15-month rotation that was originally posed to them.     
   That would be good news. I hope he is correct in that. I hope he is successful. 
   The data collection that went on leading up to this briefing, always for the last year you can pick data points out of the air wherever you want to make them. But the discipline to evaluate the trend lines is what is so critical. Today we saw those trend lines established and the data meticulously collected before those trend lines were established. Not all of them showed good news. But a preponderance of them show a positive effect that has happened in Iraq since our reinforcements arrived. 
   None of us can predict what is going to happen beyond the end of this year. I will tell you, Mr. Speaker, as we sit here tonight on the eve of the anniversary of 9/11, I am terribly concerned about what might even happen tomorrow. None of us knows what tomorrow holds. Didn't we learn that lesson Monday, September 10 in 2001 when it seemed like there just wasn't much happening in the world? We have another tape from Osama bin Laden. We are told there is another one out there. What does all this mean? None of us knows for sure. But I reiterate that we are living in a very dangerous time. Now is the time for us not to show weakness and retreat from Iraq. Now is the time for us to redouble our resolve, make certain that we are successful, and for every one of us to give thanks that we have leaders like General Petraeus and Ryan Crocker to lead us in this perilous time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (COMPLEXITY OF TAX CODE -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, you know, it is said that nothing in the world is certain except death and taxes. And I'll tell you, being a physician in my former life, that sometimes even death is a little less complicated than our tax system. 
   The complexity of the tax code is a consequence of countless deductions and exemptions that are aimed not at collecting revenue, but steering a social agenda. And the result is a Federal law that is fraught with opportunities for avoiding taxes and full of loopholes to be exploited, all at the expense of fellow Americans. 
   My criticizing the tax code is as American as apple pie and baseball, and for good reason, because every year Americans spend billions of hours and billions of dollars, and that's not counting the billions of hours that we spend complaining about the tax code. Time is money, and time should be spent growing the economy and creating jobs. 
   There is a strong prescription for real change in our tax code. We caught a glimpse of it when Ronald Reagan cut the tax code in half back in 1986. As a result of that reform, the economy grew, revenues increased, and jobs were created. The prescription is pretty simple: Flatten the tax, broaden the base, and shift the burden away from families and small businesses. 
   And we do have a practical and effective blueprint, it's called the flat tax. Back in 1981, Robert Hall and Alvin Rabushka proposed a radically simple structure that would transform the Internal Revenue Service and our economy by creating a single tax rate for all Americans. Today, several States have implemented a single rate tax structure for their State income tax, and from Utah to Massachusetts citizens are realizing the benefit. 
   In Colorado, a single rate tax generated so much income that it was reduced 10 years after its implementation. In Indiana, the economy boomed after a single rate went into effect in 2003, and since that time the corporate income tax receipts have grown by 250 percent. 
   Now, several people in Congress are working on the problem. I have a bill, H.R. 1040, which is a voluntary flat tax. A companion bill was introduced by the senior Senator from Tennessee just this past week. We have bills from David Dreier, the gentleman from California, Paul Ryan from Wisconsin, all trying to accomplish the same goal, and it is so simple. You have a single rate, you have a single piece of paper. You put in your name, just a little bit of identification data, write in your income, there's a line for personal exemptions, calculate your deductions from personal exemptions and calculate your taxable income, multiply it by a flat rate, subtract the taxes already withheld, and you're done. And what did that take? Not even 30 seconds. No more expensive tax attorney bills, no more hours of stressful research, no more headaches. It is much less costly, saving the taxpayers more than $100 billion per year. And it would increase tax compliance. The result: Increase in personal savings, and there is a stimulus package that would have an immediate effect on our American economy. 
   Recent polling by a group called American Solutions shows that over 80 percent of Americans favor an optional one-page tax return form with a single rate. Now, we hear a lot of talk about change this year. You practically cannot turn on the television without some political commercial talking about change. Well, let's consider how change could improve the most complicated of institutions, the Internal Revenue Service. And more importantly, consider how that change could deliver prosperity and return time, the precious commodity of time, to the American taxpayer. Now, that's a stimulus package worthy of everyone's vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (THE FUTURE OF MEDICINE -- (House of Representatives - April 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I come to the House tonight to talk about something that isn't number one or number two or perhaps even number three on the list of things that people are concerned about, it is number four, it is health care, health care in our country that is provided by the private sector, that is provided by the public or the government sector. It is a debate that we will be hearing a lot more about as we get deeper into a year that's going to be consumed by presidential politics. 
   Right now in our country we have an amalgam, if you will, of health care, part paid by the government, part paid by the private sector. I am oversimplifying for the purposes of debate, but the public or government sector, in pure dollar amounts, accounts for about 50 percent of the health care expenditures in this country. The private is sector insures about 160 million Americans, and that is roughly 50 percent of the lives covered by private insurance in this country. And we will have the debate, as the presidential  year unfolds, more government, more private sector. But tonight, what I really want to do is focus on the physician workforce, the physician workforce that we have now and the physician workforce that we might expect to have in the future. 
   Alan Greenspan, about a year and a half ago, right as his last days at the Fed were winding down came and talked to a group of us one morning, and inevitably the question came up about Medicare. In fact, we saw the trustee's report yesterday; everyone is concerned about the funding for Medicare, the future obligation that is there in Medicare. And Mr. Greenspan was pretty circumspect, he said, ``At some point I expect the Congress to deal with the problem of funding.'' And then he went on to say, ``What concerns me more is will there be anyone there to provide the services when you want them?'' That really struck a cord with me. And in fact last month, the month of March, back in my home State of Texas my Texas Medical Association puts out a periodical every month called ``Texas Medicine,'' and the cover story was in fact dedicated just to that concept, ``Running Out of Doctors.'' And the thrust of the article is how do we keep the medical students that we graduate from Texas schools, how do we keep them practicing in Texas, particularly in the high-need areas in Texas? And concentrating on the physician workforce is what I want to do during this discussion, in the time that I have available for the discussion this evening. 
   My perspective, of course, 30 years ago I graduated from medical school in Houston, Texas, so I do have the perspective of looking back over the last 30 years. But I also want us to look over the horizon to the next 30 years. What about the young man or woman who is graduating from medical school this year, what kind of world do they want to find themselves practicing in? What type of practice environment do they want to see that we have laid out for them 30 years from now? It is going to be important that we take the correct steps today in order to provide the correct practice environment 30 years from now. 
   Since we're talking about the physician workforce, the part that the government pays for is paramount, that is critical. And really the thing that I want to focus on of that government sector is the pricing and the payment schedule in the Medicare program itself.     
   Medicare, a good program, just celebrated its 41st or 42nd birthday. We had the second anniversary of the prescription drug benefit part D, which in my first year here we passed in 2003 and was added on in the year 2006. 
   Medicare is an integrated program. Part A is the hospital, part B is the doctor's care, part C is the Medicare, what is now called the Medicare Advantage Plans or the HMOs, and part D is the prescription drugs. But while it is an integrated program, the funding for Medicare actually exists in funding silos. 
   If we look at the comparative payment updates from the year 2002 to projected 2007, you see that there is something wrong with this picture. And what is wrong with the picture is that physician reimbursement in part B is significantly lagging behind the payment updates for the Medicare Advantage Plan's hospitals and nursing homes are shown on this graph. And there is a reason for that. It is really not a very difficult reason: Medicare Advantage Plan's hospitals and nursing homes receive every year essentially a cost-of-living update. It is a market-basket update that they receive based on the cost of inputs from the previous year. CMS has actuaries that go back and figure this out: What did it cost the hospitals to provide the care that they delivered to our seniors? 
   Part B is calculated differently. Part B is what is described as a volumetric formula. It weights volume and intensity. But basically you have a fixed amount of money, a finite pie, that if more and more people are submitting claims, the slices get progressively smaller. And in 2002, you can see there was a big drop. The reason 2003, 2004, 2005 are not a downward projection is because in fact at the last minute, Congress swept in and said we are going to do something to prevent this from happening. And, in fact, doctors got a modest update in 2003, 2004, 2005. 2006 doesn't really show up because that was a zero percent update. 
   Now, Madam Speaker, I have not been in Washington all that long, but I have learned some of the parlance and the lexicon that we use here. And in any other Federal program or any other federally funded program, if you are held to a level funding or a zero percent update for that year, anyone else would regard that as a cut. But we told the doctors that was great, you are going to get a zero update for that year and you will be happy for it. 
   Projected for 2007, if we don't do something, is going to be a substantial decrease. Once again, we may very well ride in at the last minute and do something to blunt the effect of that; but year in and year out, this problem continues; and the real insidious part of this is the dollars to fix the problem get higher and higher every year. 
   Last year I introduced a bill to just simply do away with the SGR and replace the SGR with a market-basket update. It is called the Medicare Economic Index. And it is not my idea; a group called MedPac, a Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, worked this out in actuarial fashion some years ago. And the Medicare Economic Index would in fact provide a 2 to 2 1/2 percent update for most years based on the cost of input for the physicians providing the services to the patient. 
   The cost last year scored by the Congressional Budget Office of replacing the SGR formula with the Medicare Economic Index was $218 billion. Clearly, that is a lot of money, and it disrupts any budget that either party might put up there. So, as a consequence, I didn't get a lot of activity on that bill last year. It is still important to do. And every year that we delay doing something, and even those years that we come in and it looks like we fixed it a little bit, we actually just compound the problem and make it worse in subsequent years. 
   So in just very general terms for this evening's talk, we have got a lot of people who are going to be joining the Medicare generation. As the baby boomers age and retire, the demand for services is going to go nowhere but up. And if the physician workforce trends continue as they are today, we may be not talking about funding a Medicare program, we may be talking about there is no one there to take care of the seniors. 
   In my home State of Texas, the number of physicians between 1995 and 2005 increased by 46 percent or nearly 5,000. Okay, that is good, it went up. However, the State is still below the national average, the national average being 230 physicians per 100,000 population. In Texas the ratio, even with the increase, is 186 to 100,000 residents. 
   The American Academy of Family Physicians predicts serious shortages of primary care doctors in five States, including Texas, and says that all States will have some level of family physician shortage by the year 2020. The Council on Graduate Medical Education, a congressionally authorized entity, estimates that after 2010, growth in the physician workforce will slow substantially; and after 2015, the rate of population growth will exceed the rate of growth for the number of doctors. In other words, we won't be keeping up anymore. At the same time, the demand is only going to increase year over year, resulting in critical shortages, particularly in primary care, but the reality is all specialties may well be affected. 
   So my thesis, my proposition, is that Congress needs to approach this sort of as a three-pronged attack or a three-pronged solution to mitigate this shortage for the future, to improve payments to current doctors, keep them in practice longer, improve Federal assistance to medical students, encourage students to go into high-need specialties, and increase the number of residency training programs, particularly in rural and suburban areas, and keep the physician pipeline open. 
   To do that, I am going to be next week introducing three bills to deal with those three areas. The first, to insure the physician workforce, really deals with the Medicare funding and the SGR. You talk to doctors my age, those who graduated from medical schools 30 years ago, and their concerns are really consistent. They are concerned about the liability environment, which is not part of tonight's  discussion but one that we certainly need to have and I hope we do have in this Congress this year. Their concern is the year-over-year reduction in payment that the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services comes up with for physician reimbursement. And it is not just a question of doctors wanting to make more money; it turns to be a real patient access problem, because there is not a week that goes by that I don't get a letter or fax from someone who says, you know what, I have just had enough and I am going to retire early, I am no longer going to see Medicare patients in my practice, or I am going to restrict the procedures that I offer Medicare patients. 
   Unfortunately, I know that is happening because I saw it in the hospital environment before I left the practice of medicine to come to Congress. But I also hear it in virtually every town hall that I do back in my district. Someone will raise their hand and say, How come on Medicare, you turn 65 and you have got to change doctors? And the answer is, because their doctor found it no longer economically viable to continue to see Medicare patients because they weren't able to pay the cost of delivering the care, let alone making any money on top of it. They weren't able to cover the cost of providing the care. 
   So in the bill to address that, the bill that I introduced last year, again, just simply repealed the SGR outright. The difficulty that I had with that was, again, just the cost was too high. But if we do that over time, perhaps we can bring that cost down to a level where it is manageable. 
   Getting the payment policy right in Medicare is going to be the first order of business for preserving the physician workforce. Paying physicians fairly will extend the careers of many physicians who are now in practice who would otherwise opt out of the Medicare program, seek early retirement, or restrict those procedures that they offer to their Medicare patients. 
   It also has the effect of insuring an adequate network of doctors available to older Americans as this country makes the transition to the physician workforce of the future. 
   In the bill, the SGR formula, this volume-based formula would be repealed in 2010, 2 years from now, but also provide incentive payments based on quality reporting and technology improvements to protect the practicing physician against that 5 percent cut that is likely to happen in 2008 and 2009. That would be voluntary. No one would be required to participate in the quality program or the technology improvement, but it would be available to those doctors or practices who wanted to offset the proposed cuts that will occur in physician reimbursement in the 2 years until the formal repeal of the SGR happens. 
   Now, why do it that way? Why not just bite the bullet and let's go ahead and get the SGR out of the way and get it repealed? Remember, it costs a tremendous amount of money to do that. Another problem that we have in Congress is we are required to submit all legislation to the Congressional Budget Office to find out how much it costs. If we are going to be spending the taxpayers' money, how much are we going to spend? Over what time will we spend it? 
   So that is not unreasonable, but because of the constraints of the Congressional Budget Office, we are not allowed to do dynamic scoring. We all knew, for example, when we began the prescription drug benefit 2 years ago, that if you deliver medications in a timely fashion, the timely treatment of disease, you are going to get better patient outcomes. And, in fact, that is what the trustee's report for Medicare that was released yesterday, although it still shows that we have got a big problem in paying for Medicare, the actual outlays for Medicare were down. And the reason they were down, I suspect, is a compendium of things; but part of it is treating disease in a timely fashion, not always catching it at the end stage but treating it at the beginning, you are going to end up with more functional individuals, to be sure, so they are going to continue to be productive in society. But the overall cost of Medicare is going to go down. 
   Unfortunately, we can't do that look-ahead with the Congressional Budget Office and say, you know, I think if we do this, we are going to save some money. So give me credit for that against that SGR score that you always rate my bill with. They won't and they can't do that. 
   So by postponing the repeal of the SGR by 2 years' time, taking the savings that occurs during that time and applying it to the SGR formula, actually may give us a number that is doable as far as releasing the SGR and replacing it with the Medicare Economic Index. 
   One of the main thrusts of this bill is to require the Center for Medicare and Medicare Services to look at their top 10 conditions that drive the highest percentage of payments in Medicare part B, and require CMS to adopt reporting measures relating to these conditions that have already been developed. It is not reinventing the wheel. The AMA Physician Consortium has already developed those reporting measures that drive that spending so high. 
   You know, the old famous bank robber Willie Sutton when he was asked why do you rob the bank, he said that is because that is where the money is. Let's go to those top 10 things where the greatest amount of money is spent, because that is where the greatest amount of savings can occur. If we can deliver care in a more timely fashion and if we can improve outcomes, we are actually going to spend less. And by focusing on those top 10 programs, at least initially, that will be the greatest return on investment for CMS and ultimately will be the greatest return on investment for retiring the SGR. 
   The same considerations may apply to the Medicaid program as well, so it will be a very useful exercise to go through that and identify those top 10 conditions. And where cost savings may be most easily gathered, not only will it have an improving effect on Medicare, but I suspect on Medicaid as well. We are going to establish quality measures focusing on these core conditions, and that is where the add-on payment for those 2 years, that is where half of it will come from. A 2 1/2 percent update for those physicians who do voluntarily report quality measures on those top 10 conditions, that is where the protection from the continuation of the SGR for 2 years, that is where that protection will derive from. 
   We are going to report back to doctors on what their volume and intensity is. This information will not be made generally public, but it will be made available to the individual physician so they can see how they are doing, how they are doing relative to other doctors in their practice, other doctors in their community, other doctors around the country. 
   But the important point here is these are voluntary measures that will protect the physicians from the cuts that are inevitably going to occur as a result of the SGR program until the SGR can actually be repealed.     
   But, physicians can opt to take advantage of the bonuses, and it is going to return some value back to their businesses and return value to the taxpayer. Again, there may be an unintended benefit for the parallel Federal program to cover poor Americans under the Medicaid program if some of these programs deliver the benefit back that it is anticipated that they will. 
   The quality measures are going to be built around these high-cost conditions, and strive to improve the quality of care not only for those conditions and patients, but to drive down the cost of delivering Medicare. 
   There is also going to be a provision in the bill to help physicians' offices to bring their information technology, their infrastructure, hardware and software, bring it up to a standard where it will begin to derive benefit to not only the patient and the practice but to the Medicare system in general. 
   The percentage add-on payment is proposed to be 2 1/2 percent, so those two bonus payments in aggregate would be 5 percent. And again, that is designed to be a protection against what are the anticipated reductions in payments that would occur in 2008 and 2009. 
   The provision will also create a safe harbor that will allow clinics, physicians' offices, and hospitals to share health information technology platforms, and the standards will be established and available to physicians' practices so they will understand how they need to comply with this. The  standards must be established no later than January 1, 2008. 
   Madam Speaker, I wasn't always a big proponent of things like electronic records. I wasn't sure if it would deliver the payoff that people said it would. But here is a picture of the medical records department in Charity Hospital in New Orleans. This picture was made in January 2006, about 4 or 5 months after Hurricane Katrina and the downtown flooding that occurred. It is the medical records room. These records are ruined. You can see, this is not smoke or soot damage, this is black mold that is growing on the records. You look there and it almost goes on to infinity, tens of thousands, hundred of thousands of records that were active, ongoing charts of people's medical conditions absolutely now unavailable. No one is going to get into that medical records department and risk inhaling the spores from the mold that is covering those charts. 
   This is the kind of problem that you can get into with a paper medical record. Of course the youngsters of today, the college students of today, the young physicians of today, they understand this very well. They are all connected and wired in. They would no more imagine turning in or doing a paper for one of their classes where they just had a single copy, a single paper copy, the old adage ``the dog ate my homework,'' most students will have a paper on a disk, on a flash drive and readily accessible and retrievable in many forms. We should do no less with our medical records. 
   But it costs money to do this. It is going to require a push for the private sector. I prefer to think as a bonus payment as being an inducement, an enticement for physician's offices to participate in this type of program. But it is also just good medicine. It is good patient care. 
   We all heard about the troubles at Walter Reed Hospital a few months ago. I went out to Walter Reed probably the week after the story broke in the Washington Post and talked to this young man who took me around Building 18. Yes, there was some concern. It was a crummy building. But his biggest concern was spending hours and hours with his medical record, his service record, going through the various parts of that and highlighting things. He had a yellow marker, a highlighter, highlighting parts of his medical record because this is how he was going to establish the benefits that he was going to receive in the VA system for his disability. 
   He said I can spend 20 man-hours putting this medical record together and it ends up on someone's desk and it doesn't get picked up, and then no one can find it and I have to start all over again. That was his main message to me that day. 
   Now the VA system has been indeed very forward-thinking in its embrace of electronic medical records and its investment in information technology. The problem is the medical records from the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs do not possess the interoperability necessary to make this type of activity unnecessary. 
   So clearly delivering value to the patient, particularly a patient in that situation, is of paramount importance. And it is my contention that if we do make the bonus payment generally available to physicians, this will be something that they will embrace. There is a learning curve, to be sure. It is going to slow people down a little bit initially. But ultimately, the rapidity of the system will be impressive. And even in a smaller physician's office the ability, just think, never having to wait while they find your medical record because somebody didn't put it back in the right place. I know it happened in my medical practice, and I suspect it happens in offices across the country on a regular basis. If nothing else, you will save that time and embarrassment of not being able to locate a patient's record. 
   One of the problems last year when we dealt with trying to provide the health information technology bill that we passed here in the House and were never able to come to agreement with the Senate, part of the difficulty was being able to have the hospital and the clinic and the physician, there may need to be some relaxation in what are called the star clause to allow safe harbors so that these conditions can be met. 
   But the reality is that once people become used to this technology will embrace it. The other unintended consequence, the other unintended benefit of this is the rapidity with which the system can learn. When I say the system, the entire health care system because wouldn't it be nice to know which treatments deliver on the promise of getting people better faster at a lower cost. Wouldn't it be great to have that information and know what treatments were effective and what treatments were only marginal? That information can be literally at a physician's fingertips with the right type of computer architecture and technology environment. I believe the time has come that we do need to embrace that. 
   So the bill will include a Federal incentive to implement health information technology along with provisions providing safe harbors for the sharing of software, technical assistance and hardware, as well as the creation of consortiums. 
   Now, it is not just about physicians my age, because we have got to also concentrate on helping the younger doctors with residency programs. The funny thing about doctors is we to have a lot of inertia. A lot of us tend to practice very close to where we did our training. So the idea to get more training programs in areas that are underserved, rural areas, inner city areas, to get more training areas where the doctors themselves are actually needed. 
   So the second bill or the second prong of this three-pronged approach would be to develop a program that would permit hospitals that do not traditionally operate a residency training program, allow them the opportunity to start a residency training program to build the physician workforce of the future. 
   This bill would create a loan fund available to hospitals to create residency training programs where none has operated in the past. The programs would require full accreditation and generally be focused in rural, suburban, inner urban or frontier community hospitals. 
   On average, it costs $100,000 a year to train a resident and that cost for a smaller hospital can be prohibitive. The other issue is in 1997 the Congress passed what was called the balanced budget amendment and within that there is a residency cap that also limits resources to nontraditional residency hospitals such as smaller community hospitals. For the purposes of this bill, the loan amount to any institution would not exceed $1 million, and the loan itself would constitute start-up funding for a new residency program. And the start-up money is essential. Since Medicare graduate medical education funding can be obtained only once a residency program is firmly established, the cost to start a training program for a smaller, more rural or suburban hospital can be cost prohibitive because these hospitals operate on much narrower margins. 
   The overall bill would authorize a total of $25 million to be available over 10 years. The fund, of course, would be replenished because these are constructed as loans and the Health Resources Service Administration may make the loans available to new loan applicants or extend loans to increase the number of residency slots available at existing programs or a loan to continue newly established residency programs to hospitals that have been approved. 
   To be eligible, a hospital must demonstrate that they currently do not operate a residency training program, have not operated a residency training program in the past, and that they have secured preliminary accreditation by the American Council on Graduate Medical Education. 
   Additionally, the petitioning hospital must commit to operating an allopathic or osteopathic residency program in one of five medical specialties, or a combination of these specialties: Family medicine, internal medicine, emergency medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, or general surgery. Again, the hospital may request up to $1 million to assist in the establishment of this new residency program. Funding could be used to offset the cost of the residents' salaries and benefits, faculty salaries and other costs directly attributable to the residency program. 
   The bill would require the Health Resources Services Administration to  study the efficacy of this program in increasing the number of residents in family medicine, internal medicine, and primary care, and whether the program led to an increase in the number of available practitioners in these specialty areas, particularly in underserved areas. The loans would be made available beginning January 1, 2008, and the program would be sunsetted in 10 years time, January 1, 2018, unless Congress elected to reauthorize the program. 
   The third prong of the physician workforce for the future would be ensuring the availability for adequate future physicians, and provide medical students with assistance and incentives to practice in shortage specialties and shortage areas. 
   The third bill would establish a mix of scholarships, loan repayment funds, and tax incentives to entice more students to medical school and create incentives for those students and newly minted doctors to become primary care, family physicians, general surgeons, OB/GYNs and practice in shortage areas such as rural or frontier areas. 
   This bill would provide additional educational scholarships in exchange for a commitment to serve in a public or private nonprofit health facility determined to have a critical shortage of primary care physicians.     
   Such scholarships will be treated as equivalent to those made under the National Health Service Corps Scholarship Program and penalties apply for those that take advantage of the scholarships but do not go into one of those practice areas. 
   This will be a 5-year authorization, authorizing these loans and grants to be $5 million a year. The scholarship amounts will not exceed $30,000 per year. The scholarship amounts may be adjusted based on financial need, geographic difference and educational costs. 
   Again, this is going to be administered through the Department of Health and Human Services, specifically through the Health Resources Service Administration. 
   This program will have an established repayment program for students who agree to go into family practice, internal medicine, emergency medicine, general surgery, or OB/GYN, and practice in underserved areas. Again, HRSA will administer and promulgate the requirements. Recipients must practice in the prescribed specialty and prescribed area, which is designated as an underserved area, and the practices may include solo or group practices, clinics, public or private nonprofit hospitals. Again, a 5-year authorization at $5 million per year. 
   This will establish the Primary Care Physician Retention and Medical Home Enhancement grants to help ensure that primary care physicians continue to provide coordinated medical care to patients in underserved areas or high-risk populations. Now, I know we can all think of areas like that in our home districts and home States. 
   Also, in an area such as the gulf coast area where so many physicians left after the devastating twin hurricanes of Katrina and Rita a year and a half ago, it has been very hard on doctors in those areas. Many doctors have left. It is going to be difficult to attract doctors back to that area, and this will be yet one more tool, one more way, to get doctors to consider practicing in an area where the need is great. 
   This encourages States to establish Physician Workforce Commissions, especially in rural areas and in certain practice specialties such as family medicine, again basically primary care, by exempting from income tax any amount paid by the Physician Workforce Commission in the form of salary to a physician who has signed a contract with the political subdivision to practice in that area for any amount of time, no fewer than 4 years. 
   Every year there would be a report back to Congress about the effectiveness of this program, that is, once again, are we spending our dollars wisely, are we getting what we thought we would get when we initiated that program. 
   So, Madam Speaker, those are three bills that, again, I will be introducing during the week next week after we get back. I think these, while they may not be the answer to all the problems, certainly focus on where the problem areas exist, that is, physicians who are my age, 50 years plus or minus a little bit, who are in the Medicare program but looking to drop out or opt out because they can no longer continue their practices because we in Congress are cutting reimbursements to the point where we are no longer paying our fair share. We are no longer paying the freight on taking care of Medicare patients, but in addition to that, looking over the horizon to the future, being sure that we have the physician workforce of the future, to provide care for the baby boomers who are getting older, but just being able to provide that care in general. 
   In fact, we are not even talking about just the Medicare population here. We are talking about doctors who are going to work in primary care in a medically underserved area in a specialty which is in short supply in that area. That dual approach of increasing the number of residency slots, again, doctors tend to go into practice and stay in practice where they trained, and the other, a loan forgiveness program and a tax incentive program to young physicians getting out of school, may have several hundred thousand dollars in debt from their undergraduate and then their medical school training, this is a way for them to begin their careers without having that incredible debt load to carry with them, a loan forgiveness, a tax incentive program, provided they are willing to give back some time in a medically underserved area in a specialty that is in high medical need. 
   I believe that by taking these three steps, Madam Speaker, we really will go a long way towards alleviating the physician shortage. There is no question that we are going to need to devote a lot more time and energy to how we approach the problem dealing with health care in this country and dealing with the uninsured. I expect to have many more hours on subsequent evenings in the coming weeks to talk about just this problem and just what are some of the approaches that may be taken. 
   We had a fairly long hearing in committee this morning, in my committee, the Health Subcommittee of Energy and Commerce, hearing from a variety of people about how to provide additional care for the uninsured. Again, it is going to be a lively debate, what happens in the private sector or do we just simply give it over to a government program, perhaps bring the age for eligibility for Medicare down lower and lower, expanding the SCHIP program higher and higher, and then the two programs will meet in the middle and provide coverage for everyone in the country. I do not think that is necessarily a good way to go. 
   I think there are some reasons that the private practice of medicine does bring value to the entire American medical system. There is no question we have no shortage of critics in this country and around the world about the system of health care in this country, but my opinion, it is the American system that stands at the forefront of innovation in new technology, precisely the types of system-wide changes that are going to be necessary to efficiently and effectively provide care for Americans in the future. 
   There was an article in the New York Times published October 5, 2006, by Tyler Cowan. He writes, ``When it comes to medical innovation, the United States is the world leader. In the past 10 years, for instance, 12 Nobel prizes in medicine have gone to American-born scientists working in the United States, three have gone to foreign-born scientists working in the United States, and just seven have gone to researchers outside of the country.'' 
   But he does go on to point out that five of the six most important medical innovations of the past 25 years have been developed within and because of the American system. 
   The fact is the United States is not Europe. American patients are accustomed to wide choices when it comes to hospitals, physicians, and pharmaceuticals. Because our experience is unique in this country, because Americans indeed are exceptional and we are different from the types of programs that are in other countries, this difference should be acknowledged and embraced, whether we are talking  about public or private health insurance programs. 
   Madam Speaker, it has been a long day and we have gone fairly late into the evening. I appreciate the time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (GENETIC INFORMATION NONDISCRIMINATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - April 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, it's my feeling that this bill should have been brought to the floor under a rule to perhaps allow additional improvement and amendment, as pointed out by Mr. Stearns. There is the opportunity, perhaps in conference, to further improve the bill. I don't think our work is quite done. 
   One improvement that I was able to effect in our committee, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, is the exclusion of title II for covered entities already subject to regulation under HIPAA statutes, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act statutes. Dual regulation of communications, uses, disclosures and other aspects and activities, subject to regulation, currently regulated by the Department of Health and Human Services, by GINA, would have had disastrous consequences for coordination of care. 
   We need to make clear that providing health services is not the same as hiring, firing or job promotion. Genetic information is medical information and is not restricted under the House bill for employer-sponsored services that are covered in entities under HIPAA. Also, nothing in this bill affects the practice of medicine. That is not the intention, and this is among the principles that I have sought to ensure. 
   I would note that the current HIPAA regulations are extremely sophisticated. They are the result of over 5,000 communications and comments. We are not going to trump those regulations under title II, and that will prevent the possibility for enormous disruption and adverse consequences. 
   Failure to address this issue would have been calamitous, for efforts of using health information, new efforts for using health information technology. Medical information systems cannot be burdened with legal requirements that would, in effect, force complicated segregation of genetic information from other medical information and health care, including those in employer-sponsored clinics. 
   Still, with all of those caveats, I will be voting in favor of the bill today. I do look forward to making certain that these modifications survive in conference and perhaps there will be the opportunity to even make things a little bit better in that process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (OPPOSE THE SECOND CHANCE ACT -- (House of Representatives - May 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding, and I want to talk about something that really may be a fairly small part when we talk about the overall $2.99 trillion Federal budget. But in the Republican budget, in the minority's budget, that was not passed when we did our budgetary work 2 months ago, I included some work on a bill, a medical liability reform bill based off of law that was passed in Texas in 2003. This bill is essentially a bill that limits, that it does cap awards on noneconomic damages a little different from the bill that we passed several times on the floor of this House in the past 4 years. 
   The bill that we have had on the floor of the House the past 4 years has been based off the California law, the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975 which caps noneconomic damages at $250,000.     
   Now, in Texas, back in the legislative session that occurred in 2003, an effort was made, Texas was in a significant problem as far as medical liability was concerned. We had lost most of our medical liability insurers from the State. They had simply closed up shop and left because they could not see a future in providing medical liability insurance in the State of Texas. We went from 17 insurers down to two by the end of 2002. Rates were increasing year over year. My personal situation, rates were increasing by 30 to 50 percent a year. 
   The State of Texas, the State legislature, passed a medical liability reform based off the California law, but updated for the 21st century. Instead of a single $250,000 cap, there was a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages as it pertained to the physician, a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages as it pertained to the hospital, and an additional $250,000 cap as it pertained to a second hospital or nursing home, if one was involved, so an aggregate cap of $750,000. 
   Well, the States are great laboratories for public policy. How is it done back in the State of Texas? Remember we dropped from 17 insurers down to two because of the medical liability crisis in the State? We are now back up to 14 or 15 carriers; and, most importantly, those carriers have returned to the State of Tex tech without an increase in premium. 
   What about the physicians who were paying the premiums that were inexorably going up? Again, a 20 to 50 percent per year increase that I saw myself, in my practice. What has happened? Texas Medical Liability Trust, my last insurer of record before I came to Congress, has reduced rates for physicians now an aggregate of 22 percent in the past 3 years. 
   That is significant, because, remember, the rate of rise was going up 20, 30, 40 percent a year. Now it's back down 22 percent and aggregate since this bill was passed. 
   Probably one of the most important unintended beneficiaries of this was the small community not-for-profit hospital, who was self-insured for medical liability. They have been able to take money out of those escrow accounts and put it back to work for those hospitals capitalize improvements, paying nurse's salaries, the kinds of things you want your small not-for-profit community-based hospitals to be doing, not holding money in escrow against that inevitable liability suit that might occur. 
   Well, under the Texas plan, I took the language of the Texas plan, worked it so it would fit within our constructs here in the House of Representatives, offered it to the ranking member of the Budget Committee. He had scored by the Congressional Budget Office, and the Texas plan, as applied through the House of Representatives to the entire 50 States, would yield a savings of $3.8 billion over 5 years. Not a mammoth amount of money when you are talking about a $2.999 trillion budget, but savings nonetheless, monies that we will  leave on the table in this budgetary cycle that could have gone to some of the other spending priorities that we hear so much about. 
   It could have gone for anything else so far as increase in providing medical services. We will have to reauthorize SCHIP this year. We will have to find billions of dollars for that program. Here is $3.8 billion that he with left on the table because the majority chose not to look at this in the budgets that they passed. 
   The other thing that is missing in this debate which we just cannot pay enough attention to, people say, well, you are from Texas, Texas has done the work. Why do you even care if there is any type of national solution? Well, it's not just the $3.8 billion that we would save under the budgetary cycle over the next years. It's the cost of defensive medicine. It is very, very hard to get a handle on the cost of what that defensive medicine is. 
   But consider this, 1996, a study done, Stanford University, revealed that in the Medicare system alone, in the Medicare system alone, the cost of defensive medicine was approximately 28- to $30 billion a year. That was 10 years ago. I suspect that number is higher today. That's why we can scarcely afford to continue the trajectory we are on with the medical liability issue in this country. 
   Another consideration, young people, getting out of college, considering medical school, put the brakes on their dreams. I don't know if I want to do that. I don't know if I want to face all of the hassles you have to face in the practice of medicine and those large liability insurance payments as well. 
   We are keeping young people out of the practice, of considering the practice of a health care profession for their livelihood because of the burden that we put upon them, not just with how we reimburse physicians at a Federal level, that's a discussion for another day, but with the burden that we put on them with health professions, loans that they have to take out to get through school, they carry a big debt load when they get out of medical school. Then on top of that, they will have to go out and borrow huge sums of money just to pay their liability insurance. Many of them simply turn off that dream and say I will do something else. There is another path for me. I don't need to choose a career in health. 
   This is the thing that we have to consider. We have to focus on how we are affecting our physician workforce for the future, how we are affecting the health care that you are our children and our children's children will receive. 
   I appreciate the opportunity to talk on this subject. As you know, I will do it at almost any time and work it into any context. But it does have a budgetary role. It is a significant one. 
   We shouldn't turn our backs on that $3.8 billion that's lying on the table right now waiting for us to pass the sensible legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (IN OPPOSITION TO RESOLUTION REGARDING ARMENIA -- (House of Representatives - October 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I want to come to the floor of the House tonight and add my voice to a lot of my colleagues in opposition to the dangerous resolution condemning Turkey for reported atrocities against the Armenian people. Everyone regrets what happened at the end of the First World War; but, Mr. Speaker, we are in the midst of a very complicated war, a complicated war in which every ally is valuable to our war effort. 
   This resolution, Mr. Speaker, this resolution has the potential to inflict damage on the United States-Turkish relationship such that it would be very difficult to repair it, and this should be at the forefront of our minds as we consider bringing to the floor for a vote. 
   I am concerned about this resolution, and I urge the Speaker not to allow these actions. 
   I am asking us to consider the long-lasting negative effects that this resolution could have on our foreign policy interests. The last thing we need is for an American ally to stray from the path of victory in Iraq, and with President Abdullah Gul threatening to withdraw Turkey's support of the Iraq war should we vote on and pass this risky resolution, this possibility unfortunately is moving ever closer to reality. 
   Mr. Speaker, Turkey continues to be a consistent U.S. partner in developing some of the crucial defense equipment we're going to need to protect our country into the future. Currently, Turkey is aiding in the development of Lockheed Martin's F-35 Lightning fighter. I can testify to the significant importance of sustaining positive relations with Turkey, because the final assemblage of the aforementioned aircraft will, in fact, take place at Lockheed Martin's Ft. Worth plant which is very near my district in North Texas. These are important developments in the war on terror and now is not the time to compromise these efforts. 
   But more importantly, Mr. Speaker, this resolution, this resolution is ill timed and ill suited for a country at war. What will happen to the transport of goods, fuel, food, fiber through Turkey into northern Iraq? 
   And if those shipments, if those shipments of food, fuel and fiber are delayed or ended by the Turks, who wins and who loses? 
   Mr. Speaker, I will submit that the average American probably doesn't know the answer to that question. It's not that they're indifferent, but they just don't know if there's going to be a winner or a loser. The average Turk, while he may care, is really just pretty mad about it all. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, I would submit it is the Iraqi citizen who is on our side who will lose. They will be denied sustenance. They will be denied food for their family. They will be denied fuel to heat their homes in the coming winter in the northern part of Iraq, in a country that has been ravaged by war. 
   Well, if Iraqis who are friendly to us are likely to be hurt, what about the enemy in Iraq? Well, Mr. Speaker, they may be the indirect winner because after all, we know they love chaos; and anything that increases disorder in Iraq's fragile social system benefits our enemy. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am not connecting dots that have not already been connected. Right as we left before the August recess the majority whip was quoted as saying if things go well in Iraq, it's bad for us; it's bad for our majority party. 
   Mr. Speaker, sadly, then we've seen several times during the month of September where it does seem like sometimes they're invested in defeat. 
   But who really bears the brunt is the United States soldier. And, Mr. Speaker, this is not just a theoretical concern. October 2000, same bill, conflicts are a little bit different. Northern watch, keeping the Iraqis from attacking the Kurds. Those planes in northern Iraq to enforce the no-fly zone and keep Saddam from attacking the Kurds, those F-16s flew out of Turkey and they kept watch every day of every week during what we now know as Northern Watch. They kept the Iraqi Republican Guard in a box and kept them from attacking Kurds. 
   Mr. Speaker, I was not in Congress in October of 2000. But I will tell you that a young man who is now a constituent, actually stationed in Clovis, New Mexico, but was moved to Incurlik, Turkey, and was on duty then, he talked to me back in October of 2000. He said, we were away from home in a place that really was awfully strange for a 21-year-old. And then we picked up our newspapers one morning and there's a big hole in the side of a United States ship, the USS Cole which was bombed in October of 2000. The tension was mounting daily. Other attacks were a possibility. And then all hell broke loose outside the base. There was protests, there was shouting, there were people yelling at us at the gate. None of us were allowed off the base. And why? Because the House of Representatives was going to take up the Armenian genocide resolution. 
   Mr. Speaker, this constituent was my son. He asked me then, Dad, why is Congress making things tougher for us over here? I didn't have an answer for him now and I don't have an answer for him now. President Clinton did not support this bill in 2000. Majority Leader Armey refused to allow it to come to the floor. Don't make life tougher for our soldiers. We're a country at war. Let's act like it for once. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SCHIP -- (House of Representatives - October 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I'm not certain my voice is going to hold out for a full hour, but I will do my best. 
   I come to the floor tonight to talk, as I do every week, about health care, the state of health care in America. We have an unusual week ahead of us here in the House of Representatives. Many people know that we have been debating the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program for several months now. 
   The bill that was passed on the floor of the House at the end of September was vetoed by the President and that bill, I'm assuming, will be coming back to the floor of the House this week to test the possibility of an override on the President's veto. 
   Mr. Speaker, I support the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program, as does, I suspect, almost everyone in this body. But, Mr. Speaker, the bill that we received the end of September was not a good bill to accomplish the purposes that we're looking to accomplish. 
   Mr. Speaker, we need to focus on the poor children in this country and only expand the program after we're doing a good job taking care of the poor children and the near poor in this country. And I don't think we have yet met that test, and that's why I supported the  President when he vetoed the legislation; and I hoped that that would be an impetus for both sides to come back together in this House and work on that bill and get a product for the American people, a viable product to reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program for the American people. Unfortunately, that has not, that expectation has not been met. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, the State Children's Health Insurance Program was introduced 10 years ago. You know, when we all stood up in this Chamber last January and raised our right hands and swore our oath to defend the Constitution, every man and woman among us in this body knew that September 30th of this year the State Children's Health Insurance Program was going to expire, was going to go away. It had a shelf life, and September 30th of 2007 was that date. 
   I was very disappointed that we had only the most general hearings about insurance coverage in our Committee on Energy and Commerce. We never had a legislative hearing on the bill that we voted on at the end of July, the first part of August. We never had a subcommittee markup during the summer on the bill that we voted on the beginning of August. We had a bill that was delivered to us about 24 hours before it was rammed through the full committee on our Energy and Commerce Committee and then brought to the floor of this House. 
   I had four amendments that I took to the Rules Committee. None were made in order. The bill was passed primarily on a party line vote, and it's called bipartisan. I guess that's what passes for bipartisanship in this town right now. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, let me reemphasize, I support the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program. In 1997, I wasn't here in this House. But a Republican House of Representatives, recognizing there was a gap between children whose parents made too much money to qualify for Medicaid and yet not enough money to be able to afford their own insurance coverage, there was a gap in the coverage for health insurance for children, and the Congress, in 1997, wisely, I think, stepped up and provided the leadership and provided the legislation that gave us a program that I think, arguably, has functioned very well for the past 10 years. 
   But part of the wisdom, part of the reason of having a program be reauthorized after a set period of time is, let's step back and look at the program. Is it doing a good job? Is it functioning as intended? Are there things we could do better? Are there improvements that can be made? Are there areas where it could be streamlined? I think the answer to every one of those questions in regard to the State Children's Health Insurance Program was yes. And it's a tragedy, it's unfortunate that we never got a chance to even talk about any of those improvements. Instead, we got a very draconian process and a bill pushed through the House that was absolutely unacceptable to the President and, as a consequence, he vetoed it. And as a consequence, after 2 weeks of some of the most severe political hammering that has ever been seen in this country, we're now going to have a vote this Thursday on whether or not to override the President's veto. 
   Mr. Speaker, in 1997 the committee on which I currently serve, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, crafted this original legislation. It was done with the best of intentions. There were children whose parents earned too much money for Medicaid. They earned over 150 percent of poverty. That's about a level of $35,000 for a family of four. But they didn't make enough money to pay for their own health insurance. Two hundred percent of poverty is a level of about $41,000 a year for a family of four. So the children who fell into that gap couldn't be covered under Medicaid, and their parents didn't quite make enough money to cover them on their employer-derived insurance. 
   Now, about 50 percent of the children in that category did have employer-derived insurance, but the other 50 percent were the ones who needed help, and that's where the help was targeted. 
   The program, as it was initially authorized, was a $40 billion program over 10 years' time. Every State had 3 years to spend its State allotment. 
   Now, that's important in my home State of Texas because our legislature meets every 2 years. Anything less than a 3-year time period in which to spend the allotted money means that any changes that are made in the program won't have time to go into effect, and Texas would be at risk of losing some of those dollars under the bill passed by the House and vetoed by the President. 
   Now, I said it before and I'll say it again. I think almost every person in this body wants to have this program reauthorized and wants to make certain that children have health care coverage. Let's ignore the question of cost for a moment. But I don't think we can ignore some of the other issues that surround this concept. 
   What if we expand the program in a way that erodes, it takes away the component of commercial insurance that's available to families with children. Is that ultimately a good thing or a bad thing? Will the future look better or worse if we erode that private coverage? 
   Now, raising taxes to pay for the program, if we have to do it, but Mr. Speaker, the funding mechanisms that are before us on this authorization actually disappear in 5 years. Under the current PAYGO rules of the House, the program has to be fully funded, so it's all front loaded. And guess what happens? Four or 5 years into the program, it falls off a cliff, and someone's going to have to deal with that cliff, someone who perhaps is currently serving in this body or someone who will be serving in this body, they will have to face those funding shortfalls in years to come. 
   We all know that there are difficulties that face the Congress in the years ahead as far as paying for 
   entitlement programs, so any time we expand an entitlement program, we have to be very careful, very careful that we have thought through the issue of funding support for the future, or else that very famous line of passing the cost on to our children and grandchildren, in fact, becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. 
   Mr. Speaker, some of the problems I see with the bill that was passed by this House at the end of September: The 2-year time interval to spend money by the States is, for a State with a 2-year legislative process, that's going to be mighty difficult. 
   This program will be spending more money than the previous authorization of SCHIP. The current funding is to be $60 billion over 5 years. Remember, the original SCHIP bill back in 1997 was $40 billion over 10 years. This bill will spend $60 billion over 5 years. 
   There is no hard limit. Although you will hear people talk about the upper limit being 300 percent of poverty, because of income set-asides and disregards that are available to the States, there are no hard upper limits. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, is that what the American people want? When we hear that this issue polls very well for Democrats and very poorly for Republicans, well, let's look into that just a little bit. A poll out just this week from USA Today shows a majority, over 50 percent of the people in this country, agree that poor children should be covered first. It's a fairly simple concept. And guess what? The American people get it. That's what they want to see us do, cover poor children first. 
   Now, if we follow a process that allows those State disregards, those income disregards and set-asides and have a system of open-ended Federal funding for the States that go over budget, imagine what is going to happen when people in this body are faced with reauthorizing this program in 5 years' time. 
   Now, one of the real pernicious aspects of this is that it shifts children who are participating in private insurance to a government program. 
   Mr. Speaker, let's take a look at this next graph. We see, if we look at children whose families earn in the 100 to 200 percent of the Federal poverty limit, about half of those children have private health insurance. So it's this group of children that the SCHIP program initially set out to cover. 
   Now, if we expand the eligibility limits between 200 and 300 percent of the Federal poverty limits, three out of four kids are already covered by private health insurance. If we go up to 300 percent of the Federal poverty limit, nine out of 10 are already covered. And if we go up to 400 percent of poverty, 95 percent of those children already have insurance. And yet some  States, two eastern States, have exceptions in the Democratic-passed bill which would allow children to be covered whose families earn up to 400 percent of poverty. 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, I submit that the universe of children in that group is pretty small that doesn't have health insurance. And to be sure, we should find them and help them. But do we want to move children who are already covered by viable commercial insurance, do we want to move them to a government program? 
   What are we trying to do here? Grow the government or build stronger families? I'll vote for the families every time. 
   Now, carve-outs for States, primarily States in the northeast, essentially requires other States to subsidize their programs. How's that going to happen? 
   Well, a State like Texas that right now has 3 years to spend its State allotment is going to be cut back to 2 years. Our legislature met this last year in 2007. It won't meet again till 2009. So if their State allotment requires a higher level of spending or money is left on the table, guess what? The money's left on the table. But it's not really left on the table for very long. Where's it going to go? It's going to go to one of those States that is now allowed to cover children up to 400 percent of the Federal poverty limit. Well, I don't think anyone in Texas, if they really understood what was happening here, would be in favor at all of the bill that passed this House the end of September, and they would be very grateful that the President provided a backstop with a Presidential veto and said, Get back to the House and get back to work on that. 
   Mr. Speaker, one of the real problems with the SCHIP bill, and one of the, when we talk about things that we could do to improve the SCHIP bill, one of the ways we've gotten away from those original intentions when this bill was passed back in 1997 is that we have allowed adults to be covered under the SCHIP program. In fact, there are four States right now that cover more adults than they do children. In fact, one State, 87 percent of the participants in the SCHIP program are not children. Well, that seems to fly in the face of what was a good and sound public policy at its inception. 
   Now, to be sure, those waivers have been granted by the previous administration and by this administration. Well, they've got to stop. And certainly, the language in the current SCHIP bill that was voted on the floor of the House made moves in that direction, but nowhere near fast enough. 
   Every dollar we spend on an adult in this program is money that we can't spend on a child. And you know what? It only costs about 60 percent of the dollars to insure a child versus an adult. Children are relatively cheap to insure because they're healthy. If we take those dollars and displace them to the coverage of adults, we push proportionately more children off of the program. And I don't think that's what anyone had in mind. So ending the coverage of adults under the SCHIP program is certainly something we've got to pay strict attention to, and simply phasing it out in 5 years' time, in my mind, is probably not moving aggressively enough in that area.     
   Putting the children back in SCHIP ought to be one of our first principles, one of our first priorities in the reauthorization of this bill. 
   Now, another pernicious aspect of the House-passed bill in September, and it's not a big deal, probably didn't get any headlines anywhere in this country, but eliminating some of the demonstration projects that were carefully crafted to try to look at other options for people who fall between the Medicaid and not quite being wealthy enough to provide their own health insurance, to allow States to have the flexibility to set up a health opportunity account, to allow a family to perhaps build and develop a medical IRA so that they can transition from a State-based insurance program to a private-based insurance program in the future. 
   Now, I saw a lot of patients in my medical practice who were covered under Medicaid. I had an obstetrics practice; and because of Texas State law, obstetrics is one of the things that is almost automatically covered under Medicaid. We saw a fair amount of Medicaid patients. But, Mr. Speaker, over time those families wanted to gravitate to a private insurance coverage because it was better coverage and they had more choice of whom they could see. They weren't so restricted in their choice of providers. Allowing them to begin to build the equity that will allow them to do that, well, I think that's a fundamental desire of a lot of young families who start out on one of the State or Federal assistance programs. 
   Now, one of the really difficult issues for me back home with this bill, even though it is advertised differently, is that this bill will make it easier for people who are in our country without the benefit of citizenship or a Social Security number, it will make it easier for them to qualify in the State Children's Health Insurance Program. The citizenship verification requirement that is currently in the SCHIP authorization is eroded under the bill passed by the House. Now, they tell you that, no, we protect, it's only American citizens; but the reality is the CBO, Congressional Budget Office, that studies these things will tell you that the erosion of the verification process will, in fact, allow many more people in to have coverage that are in the country without the benefit of going through the legal process to be in this country. 
   And the number is significant. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that over 10 years' time, that will account for about $3.5 billion of new spending to cover people who are in the country without benefit of Social Security numbers. 
   Shouldn't we be focusing on those children between 150 percent of poverty and 200 percent of poverty that we are not finding now: Shouldn't we be focusing on those instead before we begin to focus on people who are in the country without the benefit of citizenship? I think so. I know the constituents in my district back in Texas think so. 
   We need to do a good job for the people who are here legally or are natural citizens of this country before we start reaching out to cover other populations. We can't cover those other populations at the expense of the people that we are required to take care of. 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, I have a lot of concerns about the bill that passed the floor of this House, and I am grateful now that we are going to get another opportunity to visit that with a vote. The cost is high, but I don't think we should be focusing on cost. I think fundamental issues like freedom and I think fundamental issues of erosion of private coverage of insurance are more important than this argument. 
   Now, wouldn't it be great if we gave families the help they needed to keep their kids on their employer-derived insurance? A family of four earning a little over $40,000 a year, if the mom and dad or the primary wage earner is covered under employer-derived insurance but they look at the cost of pulling the kids onto the policy, and it is just too much for us, we can't swing that, what if we took the approach that we are going to buy down the cost of that coverage for their children for them so that their children would have the coverage? Wouldn't that be better than just placing the children onto a State-run program? Wouldn't it be better if everyone in the family was covered under the same provider book? When it came time to go to the doctor or necessary to go to the doctor, you have just got to look in one book. You don't have to have a book for Mom and Dad, who are covered under the employer's policy, and a book for the kids, who are covered under the government policy. One policy that covers an entire family makes a lot of sense. 
   Now, the current SCHIP bill, the one from 1997, does allow for the concept of premium support, but it is restricted in the total number of dollars that can be spent in that regard; and, quite frankly, there are so many obstructions and so many regulations that people get wrapped around the axle and they just never get through the process of getting that done. It's just easier to go down to fill out some paperwork and get on the full SCHIP program. Let's not worry with premium support. We can streamline that. We can make it easier. 
   Now, to be fair, there were some attempts in the bill passed on the floor of the House last September, some attempts to streamline that process, but  we could go a lot farther. We actually ought to encourage that because, again, it builds healthy families and that is what we ought to be about, building healthy families, not building a bigger government or building a government with a bigger appetite. Let's build healthy families and give them the power to make the decisions. 
   The other issue that we hear talked about a lot is, well, we are going to be covering many more kids with this program. But if we actually break the numbers down, the numbers are all over the map. You will hear quotes or read quotes from people who will talk about numbers that are literally all over the place. If you watched the Sunday shows, I don't think the same two numbers came out of the same person's mouth more than once. But if we break it down by the Congressional Budget Office and look at the population that will be covered that has previously not been covered, the number most consistently quoted is an additional 1.2 million children enrolled in the SCHIP program. But that includes about half of them who already have private health insurance coverage. 
   So the actual number diminishes by about half, that 600,000 children will be the increase, the uptick in the number of children who are covered under the bill that we passed on the floor of the House at the end of September. It costs a lot of money to do that. And it's not that I mind spending the money on something as worthwhile as children; but, really, shouldn't we be ensuring that we are getting value for the dollar, and is that really the best way to go about doing it, putting half of them on private health insurance in order to cover the other 600,000 children? I don't know that that is the wisest and best use of our time. I don't know that that is the wisest and best use of our dollars. 
   We should strive to deliver value for the taxpayer in everything we do, whether it be national defense, whether it be transportation funding, whether it be legislation supporting research and development, or whether it be legislation supporting the State Children's Health Insurance Program. But, Mr. Speaker, I really think it would be better if we gave more families more power and gave them the option of buying down the cost of that private health insurance so that we could keep them in a program where both parents and the children are covered under the same policy. If we could make the improvements in the premium support provisions of the bill, we might actually give a family the ability to cover their kids under their employee health plan and keep them all together under one umbrella coverage. 
   But this bill chooses to take those kids, about 600,000 who already have insurance, and push them into the SCHIP program. 
   Mr. Speaker, instead of federalizing health care, instead of expanding the power and reach of the Federal Government, why don't we give families a lift and let the families make the best decisions? I think they will make the best decisions regarding their health and their families' health. But more and more families will be dropping private health insurance if this bill as passed by the House is allowed to stand. 
   Mr. Speaker, again, we hear a lot of stuff about how this veto fight polls very well for Democrats and this is an election issue that has been handed to them and they wouldn't think of compromising because, after all, by golly, they are on the right side of this fight. 
   But look at this, Mr. Speaker: Are Americans concerned that families would drop private coverage if they had the option to have a Federal program available to them? You bet they are. Fifty-five percent are concerned or very concerned about just this eventuality. 
   Mr. Speaker, it's a shame when politics trumps sound public policy; but, unfortunately, we seem to be very much involved in a time where that's the coin of the realm and that's one of the things we are going to have to expect and work through. 
   When you look at the State Children's Health Insurance Program passed in 1997, what was the situation? You had a Republican majority in Congress and you had a Democratic President, and they were able to work that out between them and come up with a plan that is fairly sensible and has worked well for 10 years' time. Well, now we have got a Democratic House and a Republican President. Is there any reason why this shouldn't work when the reverse worked 10 years ago? I am at a loss to explain that. I am at a loss to understand why it wouldn't work now. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am a physician by trade. As a consequence, I frequently get to talk to doctors who come up to Congress to talk to us about the health policy decisions that we make and those that we should make and some of them we have made that have had unintended consequences. So I spend a lot of my time talking to physicians who come to Washington who are concerned about things. And a lot of doctors have been through town the past couple of weeks concerned about SCHIP and trying to learn more about it, trying to find out what all the fighting is about, why can't Congress agree on things. 
   And I was talking to a group of probably 70 doctors at the end of last week, and I asked if anyone in the audience practiced pediatrics. And a gentleman raised his hand. And I said, Are you aware of the fight going on in Congress right now with the reauthorization of SCHIP? And he said, Yes, I've been following it some. 
   And I asked him, When you are at home in your private practice of pediatrics and an SCHIP patient comes in, for the reimbursement for the services you render for that patient, does the government treat you the same as a private insurance company does? Is your reimbursements rate identical for those two patients? 
   He said, Oh, no. It's about a third less on SCHIP. 
   So, sir, what would be the effect if we took your patients who are on private health insurance and moved more of them to SCHIP? Would that have a positive or negative financial impact on your practice? 
   He said, It would be very negative, obviously. 
   And I said, Would you have any difficulty? Would you be able to make up that difference? 
   And he didn't have an answer for me. He was obviously doing some figuring in his head. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, that points up one of the other problems here. When we expand the reach and grasp of the Federal Government in health care, what happens? When it comes time to shave a few dollars off the program to find dollars for something else or find dollars to expand the program, one of the first places we go, witness the Medicare program. What is the number one complaint we hear from providers all over the country about the Medicare program? It is not that their patients can now get prescription drugs. It is that every year they face a 5 to 10 percent reduction in reimbursement rates for providers because of the way the Medicare program is scheduled and structured. 
   Can we honestly take a step back and say it would be a good thing to do that to the pediatricians of this country? We are having enough trouble right now with the health care workforce. Do we think we are going to improve that if we expand the size and grasp of the Federal Government and, as a consequence, ratchet down reimbursement rates for pediatricians? Do we expect to find more pediatricians in our community or less? I think you know the answer to that. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, there is one other aspect to this, and I am always advised by people who advise me about communications and, in talking with regular people, that no one wants to hear about process in Washington. But, after all, we are about process here in this House, and I think it is worthwhile to at least mention once again some of the process problems that have given us this impasse on the State Children's Health Insurance Program. Remember, in this body I could probably name one or two people that wouldn't have voted for a sense of the Congress that said we want to reauthorize SCHIP this year. If we all gathered here in January and said before the fiscal year is over, do you want to reauthorize SCHIP or not, I don't know if there would have been a single negative vote had that been taken on the floor of the House in January. 
   So how do we get here where we are? I would submit to you it has been the activities of House leadership, the way this bill was brought to the floor. No  legislative hearings, no subcommittee markup. A full committee markup that was a joke and then pushed to the House floor, and, oh, by the way, if you have got amendments, don't bother to stay up late for the Rules Committee because we are not going to entertain them.     
   And that bill was so fatally flawed it died a tortured death during the month of August and then resurrected. The Senate had a bill. The House bill was so flawed, there was no way they could go to conference between the two of them, so we did kind of a conference but kind of not a conference, where we just kind of sprung from the Earth out of whole cloth a new House bill that was remarkably similar to the Senate bill, but it wasn't a conference report. It was brought to the floor of the House like a conference report, that is, once again, no hearings, no subcommittee markup, no full committee markup, no possibility of amending or improving the bill, even though it's a brand new bill. It had never been through the committee process. It was the Senate bill that just kind of got massaged a little bit, given a House number, and here we go, it's a conference report. But it's not, and no one believed that it was. But we treated it like one, we brought it to the floor of the House, it was voted up or down, no possibility for amendment. The vote passed, but not with enough numbers to override the Presidential veto. And that's what we will face at the end of this week. 
   The Democratic leadership asked for an additional 2 weeks to make their case to the American people. Well, they've had their 2 weeks; they've made their case to the American people. And as people look at this bill, they say, I don't know if we want to encourage people to drop their private coverage to go on a Federal program, and that's because the American people are a lot smarter than a lot of us about these things. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would give to you as an example of how things can be done correctly, we reauthorized the Food and Drug Administration earlier this year. That also came through my committee. We had hearings, we had a subcommittee markup, we had a full committee markup. The original legislation that I saw early in June was so awful I didn't even want to be associated with it as it came through the process. But we worked on it. We worked on it in the subcommittee, we worked on it in the full committee, we amended it. Staff had meetings between times. We coaxed it along. And at the end of the day, we had a bill that I think 400 of us could support when it came to the floor of the House. And then it went over to the Senate, similar activity. And then a conference report came back to the House, it went to the President and was signed. The biggest change and restructuring of the Food and Drug Administration in 40 years. 
   We heard the other side talking about it just a little while ago. We need to give the FDA the tools it needs to be able to function in the 21st century world. And guess what? In my committee we did that, and we did it the right way. We did it by working through the process. Yes, the Democrats were still in charge. Yes, they could have defeated every one of my amendments on a party line vote. But you know what? They didn't. Or if it was defeated, the chairman said, Well, we're going to look at that in the conference process, I promise you. And as a consequence, we got a bill that should be the model for the way legislation passes through this House of Representatives. And instead, when just a few months later it came time to reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program, we got a tragedy of a bill. 
   Now, even just today we marked up a bill in full committee, after a subcommittee markup last week, on mental health parity. I didn't agree with a lot of things in the bill, but I had a chance to have my say. I got the chance to put my ideas out there and have them voted on by the committee. I knew I wasn't going to win on the votes, but I knew I had to present my argument. People watched that on C-SPAN. People will see that in the committee record. Over time, if I'm right, then I will win the argument of ideas. But if we never have the opportunity to debate it in committee, how is anyone going to know? How is anyone going to know? Sure we're going to lose the vote because we don't have the numbers over here, but if we never get a chance to debate the ideas, how are the American people going to decide when they look at this critically and say, I don't think that's a good idea. Well, we should give the American people that chance; the fact that we're not is just flat wrong. 
   We'll have our chance to vote on the bill this Thursday. I'm not a prognosticator. I don't know how it will turn out. I think it is the correct thing to do to support the President's veto and bring this bill back to the House. And I hope people of goodwill can get together and work on it, but, Mr. Speaker, I've got to tell you, although I'm generally optimistic about things, I'm worried. I'm worried that we've decided we have a political bludgeon that is just too important to use to hold on to power. And that's a tough thing for me to say, but all of the articles I read in the throw-away journals out here lead me to believe that. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, think back on 1996, when welfare reform was passed by this House. Again, you had a Republican House of Representatives, a Republican Senate. It passed welfare reform, then President Clinton vetoed it. It goes too far. You're going to put people out on the streets. It's a bad bill. So they came back, they passed it again. They didn't include any Democrats in the process, they just passed it again. And President Clinton looked at it and said, It's a bad bill. I'm going to veto it. So the third time both sides did get together and changed some things, albeit fairly modestly, but ended up with a bill that had, at the end of the day, both Republican and Democratic input, and the President was able to sign the bill. 
   I hope we have a repeat of that story in 2007 with the State Children's Health Insurance Program because the program is that important it requires involvement from both sides. It's a travesty to eliminate any single Member from the process because each one of us is charged with representing about 650,000 people back in our home districts. Is it right to simply silence those 650,000 voices, say no, you don't get a say in this because we're the majority party, we're in charge and what we say goes? The American people don't want to see that. I think they will have ample opportunity to judge both sides by their actions and by their words this Thursday, and most importantly, follow what occurs after that. Because if, indeed, the two sides can sit down together and work out realistically what may be some very modest differences between the bills, if that can happen, Mr. Speaker, we score a win for the American people. If that can't happen, if the allure of the perfect political bludgeon is too great and that bludgeon is seized and raised above the head and walked out of this Chamber with it to simply bash the opposition political party for another 12 years before the next legislation, well, I think the American people will be the big losers there. 
   Mr. Speaker, this is an important bill, it's an important subject. The reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program is supported almost unanimously in this body. So how did we get to a point where we have a bill that everyone wants to see reauthorized and no one wants to sit down and work on it? That's not a good work product for us to turn in for the American people. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, after the bill passed, the Democrats passed the bill at the end of September, most people don't know what happened in this Chamber 2 days later. Remember, the bill was going to expire the 30th 
   of September. Did it? Did it go away? Is there a State Children's Health Insurance Program right now? Yes, there is. We passed a reauthorization very quietly with a continuing resolution 2 days later, September 29th, here on the floor of this House, and that legislation is law and lasts until November 16th, when our target adjournment date is. I hope we get our work done by November 16th or 17th. I'm not overly optimistic that we will, but I hope we do. I know if I were a Governor of a State and looking at what dependability do I have for these funds coming in to help me take care of the poor children in my State, I wouldn't want to see that meted out in small little two- or three-  month segments. That's too hard. That's too hard to make decisions. That's too hard to govern with that kind of apportionment. 
   So, if we are not able to come to a decision before the 16th of November, I would argue for a much longer term of reauthorization under a continuing resolution. And although the numbers would stay the same, as they were in the bill that was passed in 1997, the dependability of having those founds I think is something most State Governors would want. I hope that State Governors will weigh in on this issue with Members of both political parties and impress upon them the importance of providing the stability of that source of funding as we go forward in this process. 
   Mr. Speaker, again, remember, the population of children that was originally the object of focus in the original State Children's Health Insurance bill were those children, that population of children that was between 150 percent and 200 percent of the Federal poverty limit. Ask yourself the question, where we are today, have we covered the majority, 90 or 95 percent of the children in that bracket? And the answer to that question is no. Let's do the hard work of finding those children, identifying them, and getting them into the program. Let's do that hard work before we go after easier applicants in higher income brackets. 
   The whole intent of the program was to provide the coverage for those who needed it the most; and Mr. Speaker, they still need it. Their needs have not changed. Even though our focus has changed to successively higher income groups, those children in the 150 to 200 percent of poverty, too much money to be covered under Medicaid, not enough money to buy private health insurance for about half of them, there are children in that bracket who remain uncovered to this day. 
   Let's put our outreach efforts on those children. Let's put our focus on those children and bring those children into a condition of coverage before we begin to vastly expand the program. And I think that's the message that has been delivered by the ranking member of my Committee on Energy and Commerce, Ranking Member Barton, the ranking member of my subcommittee, Ranking Member DEAL. That's been the message. That's been the focus that they have consistently articulated on the floor of this House, and they're exactly correct. If we don't want to do the hard work, the American people will see through that. And if we just simply want to bring other children into the program, children who already have coverage from some other location, to expand the program, just simply expand the program for expansion's sake, to expand the reach and grasp of the Federal Government, are we doing right by those children that are just too tough for us to find? No, I don't think so. 
   I think, although it's hard work, it's good work. I think the States have the means, the mechanism and the capability of finding those children. And that's what we ought to be about in this body, encouraging them to find those children and bring them into the program. Then, and only then, can we talk about expansion beyond that limit. And if, indeed, we can show that across the country we have identified those children, we have brought them into the program, and then we want to talk about expansion and there's the money there to do it, I'm all for it. But until we identify those children, until we have made certain that we have covered the children that we were supposed to cover in the first place, we really don't have any business trying to expand the program. 
   I would argue for an upper limit being placed at 250 percent of poverty. I think that is a reasonable upper limit. If we cover 95 percent of the children below 200 percent of poverty and then we expand that to children up to 250 percent of poverty and we do a good job of identifying those children, I think the SCHIP program is functioning as intended and providing the coverage it needs to provide. 
   And Mr. Speaker, let me just go back to the previous slide for a moment. If we identify those children, and perhaps expand to cover some children who are in up to the 250 percent of poverty, fill in the gaps, look what's happened. We're covering almost all the children in the United States of America, and that's something of which every Member in this House can be proud, Republican and Democrat alike. And wouldn't it be great if we worked together to accomplish that instead of going after the cheap political hit and trying to advance our own power. 
   Mr. Speaker, you have been very generous with your time tonight. In summation, I would just say once again, I favor the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program. I want to see that program reauthorized. I want to see it done sensibly. I don't want to see us grow the reach and grasp of the Federal Government unreasonably. I want us to keep families involved in their own health care. And Mr. Speaker, I think we can do it. It is hard work. It is going to have to require some compromise on both sides, but after we sustain the President's veto on Thursday, I look forward to getting involved in the process and getting that work done because it's the right thing to do for America and it's the right thing to do for our kids. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (MARTIAL LAW -- (House of Representatives - September 28, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I also come to the floor today to talk about this $700 billion bill that's in front of us. I use the term ``bill'' advisedly because we have seen no bill. We are here, debating talking points on, perhaps, what is the largest fundamental change in our Nation's financial system in its history. 
   House Republicans have been cut out of the process. Not only have we been  cut out of the process, but we've also been derided by the leadership of the Democratic Party, and have been called unpatriotic for not participating. 
   Mr. Speaker, I have been thrown out of more meetings in this Capitol in the last 24 hours than I ever thought possible as a duly elected Representative of 820,000 citizens of North Texas. 
   Politics is a full-contact sport, and I understand that, but it is a full-contact sport in the light of day, in the public arena. Since we didn't have hearings, since we didn't have markups, let's at least put this legislation up on the Internet for 24 hours. That's what Thomas was made for. Let's do that, and let the American people see what we have done in the dark of night. After all, I have not gotten any more mail, any more e-mails on any other subject than this one that is before us today. 
   Mr. Speaker, I understand we're under martial law as declared by the Speaker last night. I think it's ironic that House Republicans have not been needed for a single thing in this House to ensure passage for the last 22 months and that, today, we're going to be asked to vote for a bill for political cover because Democrats are too weak to stand up to their Speaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SAFETY RECALLS -- (House of Representatives - October 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Speaker for the recognition. 
   Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor tonight to talk about a growing, a disturbing trend of food and consumer product recalls in this country, safety recalls. Mr. Speaker, the danger is real. That danger has been widely documented. It's been widely discussed in the media, in committee hearings, the Lou Dobbs show and around the watercooler at work. 
   Mr. Speaker, parents are afraid. They're afraid that their children are playing with lead-tainted toy sets. Parents are afraid that the magnets in toys or charms may cause internal damage if a child accidentally swallows them. Families are afraid that the food they eat or the food they feed their pets may actually be contaminated with plastic that can cause harm or death to their beloved pet. People are afraid their toothpaste may contain antifreeze. People are afraid that the fish they serve to their families may contain dangerous antibiotics. 
   Now, I could elaborate about additional concerns, but generally, people are afraid about the source of these products and the dangers attendant to them and rightfully so. Mr. Speaker, people are afraid about defective products being imported into our country, and honestly, it seems like most of these concerns focus around a single country, the People's Republic of China. 
   Consumers' health and well-being are being endangered on two fronts: the food we eat, the goods we use. Let's use some time tonight, let's spend some time tonight discussing both fronts and what we in Congress can do and should be doing to protect American families from harmful products. 
   In the arena of food safety, you might ask the question, has anyone in Congress been paying attention to the safety of the food we eat? Well, I feel the answer to that question is yes. We've spent some time in the committee on which I sit, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and we are pursuing an aggressive investigation and an aggressive legislative agenda to confront the problem. 
   Now, as a member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, we have taken an active role in investigating the safety of our Nation's own food supply. 
   In August, a bipartisan team of investigators was sent to China to see firsthand if they could elucidate the cause of the problem. Now, the committee staff report, the investigators came to the following conclusions from their trip and from their investigation thus far. 
   Quoting directly from the staff report now, Mr. Speaker, it would appear that the Chinese food supply chain does not meet international safety standards. It is, in fact, responsible for very serious domestic Chinese food poisoning outbreaks. 
   Number 2, the Chinese Government appears to be determined to avoid embarrassing food safety outbreaks in export markets due to the damaging and potentially lasting effect that this would have on their ``Made in China'' brand. 
   And thirdly, the lack of meaningful internal regulation of farming and food processing in China, the advanced development of the document counterfeiting industry, and the willingness of some people to simply break the law, the willingness of some entrepreneurs in both China and the United States to smuggle foodstuffs that do not meet quality standards, necessitates a much more vigorous program of inspection and laboratory testing in China and at U.S. points of entry than the Food and Drug Administration has been able or willing to pursue. 
   Let me say that again, Mr. Speaker, because it's so important. This necessitates a much more vigorous program of inspection and laboratory testing in China and at U.S. ports of entry than the Food and Drug Administration has been able or willing to pursue to date. 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, these are important conclusions, and we must not simply watch the problem worsen. We must be willing to confront the problem head-on and transform the Food and Drug Administration into an agency that can fully cope with the importation problems of a 21st century world. 
   The Energy and Commerce Committee is doing their part to do just that. In addition to the staff trip to China, they're in the middle of a series of five hearings to discuss the topic: Can the Food and Drug Administration  assure the safety and security of our Nation's food supply. And what have we learned so far? 
   Well, let me recapitulate. At the hearing on July 17, 2007, on this very topic a former FDA associate commissioner, William Hubbard, testified that in 1999 the Food and Drug Administration drafted a legislative proposal which would have given the Food and Drug Administration authority to require foreign countries to take more responsibility for the foods that they send into the United States. The agency's proposal would have allowed the Food and Drug Administration to embargo a given food from a given country if there were repeated instances of that food being found contaminated when it arrived in the United States. Countries that send safe food would have no reason to be concerned, as they would be unaffected, but countries that demonstrated a pattern of disregard for U.S. safety standards would have to increase their oversight of food exported from their country. 
   Unfortunately, Congress did not accept this recommendation in 1999, and neither did the Clinton administration, and the situation with some imported foods from some countries has obviously gotten much worse. 
   Congress has a chance to examine the problem and consider recommendations on how to solve the problem, but you know, Mr. Speaker, the world was a different place then, and it was difficult to anticipate the acceleration of foreign products coming into our country. Was the safety of food products from foreign countries not a priority for Congress back in 1999? Well, the answer likely is not as much as it should have been, but then, the amount of globalization, the amount of imports was nowhere near what we see imported today. 
   The question is why we have allowed the problem to persist when we know how much harm these unsafe products have the potential to cause. We may not know the answer to that question right now, but as I stand here tonight to tell you about it, it is absolutely a priority of mine that I intend to do something about it. 
   October 11, the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held the third part of a five-part series on hearings of the Food and Drug Administration's ability to assure the safety and security of our Nation's food supply. 
   According to testimony given by Mr. David Nelson, the senior investigator for the Energy and Commerce Committee, currently the Food and Drug Administration does not go over and see if the products that are produced in China are done so under the same standards as we depend on here in the United States of America. These are the products that are produced in China that are sent over to the United States for consumption, the products that Americans will be consuming, and they are not produced under American standards. 
   Now, Ranking Member WHITFIELD asked Mr. Nelson that, well, if you're speaking to a group and a member of the audience asks the question about how safe it is to consume the products produced and imported from China, he answered, and I quote, You are taking your chances on any imported food, end quote. 
   This is a chance we simply cannot afford to take. America has to have the authority to prohibit these foods from coming into our country if they are not safe. We have to be able to stop the food that we would, quote, be taking our chances on, close quote. 
   Chairman Dingell asked Mr. Nelson whether or not the Food and Drug Administration can protect the United States' citizens from unsafe imports with the resources that they currently are applying towards this problem, and the answer was that would be an emphatic no. Not just no, not yes, no, but an emphatic no. 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, I also asked Mr. Nelson, You were over there for some time. What did you all eat when you were over there? And he replied that they ate the food that was served to them, and this was the food that was also eaten by members of their host country. And I asked him if he had any problem, and he alluded that, yes, some members of the committee did have problems while they were over there. 
   Now, I also asked him, when I got my chance to question, what protocol they will follow after discovering a contaminated food supply of foods, specifically poultry. And we had a witness during that day, and during my questioning of Mr. James Rice, the vice president and country manager for Tyson Food in China, I asked him, So when you find a problem, do you communicate that to, say, the United States authorities so that they know to be on the lookout for similar products in other facilities? Well, do you know what he said? He simply said, No, we don't. 
   He explained to me that, because Tyson was using local Chinese suppliers and the products were mostly for the Chinese markets, he simply felt it would not be necessary.     
   In essence, there would be no dialogue whatsoever. Mr. Rice told me that if persistent problems from one supplier were identified, no one would alert others as to this problematic supplier. There is no system in place to let others know about a bad apple. Well, this is a serious, serious problem. 
   It was important, so important, that I introduced legislation that relates to the 1999 proposal that was not acted upon by Congress. This is H.R. 3967, the Imported Food Safety Improvement Act of 2007, eight years late. I firmly believe that the Food and Drug Administration needs the ability and the explicit authority to immediately stop dangerous foods and products from coming into this country. 
   Let me give you an illustration. I could think of it like this: goods are coming into this country on a giant conveyer belt. When you find a bad apple coming down that conveyer belt, the Food and Drug Administration needs to be able to push a big red button with ``stop'' written on it and immediately stop the apple from continuing into the line of commerce. 
   This legislation would give the Food and Drug Administration this great big red button to push. The idea is simple. If enacted, the Food and Drug Administration would have the authority to embargo a specific food from a specific country if there were repeated instances that the type of food produced had been contaminated. 
   We frankly need to be able to stop countries from sending harmful food, harmful food products into the United States. So H.R. 3967 will allow us to finally take control of the food that is being sent to America. It would also send a strong message to countries that have, in the past, sent harmful products our way. Solve the problem on your end, or we will take steps to solve the problem on ours. 
   After a summer of recall upon recall, it's time to take matters into our own hands. I don't know about you, but I am sick and tired of hearing a different news story every week about the new and dangerous products coming in from the People's Republic of China that are being sent to America and then subsequently have to be recalled. 
   The Health Subcommittee, of which I am also a member, had a legislative hearing on September 26 regarding a bill from Chairman Dingell, H.R. 3610, the Food and Drug Import Safety Act of 2007. 
   Having reviewed this legislation, I think the intentions are certainly good. We will look forward to working with the chairman on this issue. I don't support every single provision, but I do support the spirit of the proposed law. 
   I believe we need to look toward how other Federal agencies have dealt with this issue and whether it would be appropriate to give the Food and Drug Administration similar authorities. According to the Government Accountability Office, 15 Federal agencies, 15 Federal agencies collectively administer at least 30 different food laws related to food safety. 
   The Food and Drug Administration, which is part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Food Safety and Inspection Service, which is part of the United States Department of Agriculture, together comprise a majority of both the total funding and the total staffing of the government's food regulatory system. 
   However, the food safety laws vary greatly from agency to agency, and not all foods are treated equally. For example, the United States Department of Agriculture, which has jurisdiction over meat, poultry, eggs, has established an equivalency determination, a determination standard for those specific foods. 
   On October 11, at the third oversight investigation hearing on the Food and  Drug Administration's ability to assure food safety and the security of our Nation's food supply, Under Secretary for Food Safety at the United States Department of Agriculture, Dr. Richard Raymond, gave the following testimony about equivalency. Again, I am quoting: ``Equivalency is the foundation of our system of imports. It recognizes that an exporting country can provide an appropriate level of food safety even if those measures are different from those applied here at home. Food safety and inspection service has always required an assessment of foreign inspection systems before those nations can export to the United States of America. This prior review is mandated by our laws, which originally required that a foreign system be equal to our system before any foreign product can be admitted.'' 
   It has to be equal to our system before they have the able to import under rules put forth by the United States Department of Agriculture. So that's one set. 
   He further went on to state: ``An exporting country has the burden of proving that its system is equivalent to our own if that country wishes to export to the United States.'' 
   Now, I understand that applying a system of equivalency, the system of equivalency that has been developed by the United States Department of Agriculture, taking that same system and applying it to the Food and Drug Administration, is tough. Because, in fairness, the Food and Drug Administration has about 80 percent of the jurisdiction of imported food to roughly 20 percent that is imported under the jurisdiction of the United States Department of Agriculture. So, clearly, this will be an extremely difficult and onerous task for the Food and Drug Administration to undertake. 
   Currently, only 33 countries are eligible to import meat or poultry products into the United States. If the exact standard that the United States Department of Agriculture employs was used by the FDA, it would drastically change, and some people might say it would hinder or even cripple the food system if there were not enough resources available to support it. 
   As former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich says: ``Real change requires real change.'' Maybe the system should be drastically changed. Consider this: in 2005, 15 percent of the overall food was imported. Between 1996 and 2006, a decade, the amount of U.S. imports of agriculture and seafood products from all countries increased by 42 percent. Furthermore, in the last decade, the volume of Food and Drug Administration-regulated imports has tripled. 
   Chinese imports to the United States have increased more rapidly than the global average. Between the years 1996 to 2006, the volume of Chinese imports, of the imports of Chinese agriculture and seafood products, increased by 346 percent. China is now the third largest exporter of agriculture and seafood products in the United States only behind our neighbor to the north and our neighbor to the south. 
   So perhaps our food import system should change drastically. The Food and Drug Administration was created in a time when we were still domestically growing the majority of our own foods. While we do have real issues here at home to deal with regarding our food regulatory system, at least we have a regulatory system to deal with that problem. 
   This is not the case for all of the countries involved from which we receive food. It seems that it would be common sense that we would only import food from a country if they can prove that their system is as safe as ours. Yet only the U.S. Department of Agriculture can require this, which, once again, controls 20 percent of our food supply, 20 percent equivalency, 80 percent, no match. It seems to me that it may be time to rebalance that portfolio or at least make the 80 percent of the food that's imported as safe as the 20 percent that's under the jurisdiction of the United States Department of Agriculture with their equivalency standards. 
   Now, it seems to be very arbitrary that the system the United States Department of Agriculture can employ is so much tougher than the system the Food and Drug Administration can employ. Yet at the end of the day, all that food, all that food winds up on the same kitchen table. No one makes a distinction that, well, this is the 20 percent that we got under the jurisdiction of the FDA or the United States Department of Agriculture, and this is the 80 percent we got from the Food and Drug Administration, so we will be much more circumspect about this 80 percent of the food that's on our table than the 20 percent that's under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
   That's nonsense. We know that doesn't happen in American homes. Americans don't discriminate food upon the agency that regulates them, nor should they, nor should they be asked to. But it's curious that Congress does. Congress sets forth these dual standards, you might say dueling standards, and Congress must have a candid discussion on whether or not we need to make the systems more comparable. Again, former Speaker Newt Gingrich: ``Real change requires real change.'' 
   Now, Chairman Dingell's food safety bill is tentatively scheduled to be marked up at both the subcommittee level and the full committee level the week of November 5, that's next week. It's my goal to encourage this frank conversation at the committee level and hopefully Members of both sides of the aisle will continue to have input on this important issue. 
   Now, we all know, although it hasn't been the experience of late, we all know that the system works best, and we have the most effective legislation for the American people, if the bills are allowed to go through the regular prescribed order. 
   For the sake of the safety and the sanity of the American consumer, I implore our leadership of the House, our Democratic leadership of the House to allow this important piece of legislation to go through the regular process, let it go through the normal process. 
   We saw what happened with the reauthorization of the Food and Drug Administration early this year. It was a good product. Although the bill was vastly different coming out than it was going in, I think we have got a 
   better bill at the end of the process. It was worked on by staff, worked on at the subcommittee level, worked on by staff, worked on at the full committee level, went to conference and ultimately we got an FDA reauthorization bill that I thought was quite serviceable. 
   We saw the system at its worst in the past eight weeks with the State Children's Health Insurance Program where regular order was subverted: here is the bill, up or down, take it or leave it, got to ram it through the committee in 8 hours, got to ram it through the House floor the next day. But, guess what, it's so bad even the Senate won't touch it. 
   So we come back with a Senate bill, but it's not really a conference product. That SCHIP product that came from the Senate in September was, in fact, a new bill. It could have gone to the subcommittee level, it could have gone to the full committee, it could have been modified, it could have been amended, it could have been reworked, there could have been input from both sides. 
   If your goal is only the next election, then you are going to do things like we have seen the last 8 weeks with the State Children's Health Insurance Program. If your goal is focused on near-term, mid-term and far-term priorities, if you are worried about what your legislation is going to do to Americans 10 years, 20 years, 30 years from now, you will take the time to do it correctly. 
   Well, I hope we take the time to do it correctly with the food safety import bill that we will be taking up next week. 
   Well, let's not allow the issue of protecting our families from harmful and dangerous goods coming over from other countries to become a debate of R versus D, one side versus the other, a political bludgeon, a political wedge, make all the political hay you can because 2008, after all, is going to be a year where it's all politics all the time. 
   No, we cannot do that. This is something that I am certain holds some resonance in the minds of us all working together, find the most efficient and effective method of solving this crisis and solving it now. It ought to be the priority for every one of us in this House. 
   Well, let's move from food safety and consider the issue of consumer product  safety recalls. It seems like the Nation is very focused on this issue as well. These days it seems like every time you turn on the TV or open the newspaper, you learn about yet another consumer product safety recall. 
   While people are generally concerned about the issue of recalls, many people, myself included, are concerned about the source of all of those recalls since it appears to be, and maybe it's just me, but it appears to be that the majority of those recalls all emanate from a single source, a single country. Of course, those are goods that are manufactured in the People's Republic of China. 
   Christmas, if we can say Christmas on the House floor, Christmas is rapidly approaching. I cannot help but think there would be a huge market, a huge market for any manufacturer who wanted to put the ``Made in America'' label on their toys and products, maybe a little bitty American flag on that toy or product as well. 
   I encourage retailers, I encourage retailers to think about this. Stock as many ``Made in America'' products as you can. I will bet they are big sellers this year. Since the majority of all of the products that are being recalled this year were made in China, quite honestly, this year, myself and my family have made the personal decision to try to not buy anything with a ``Made in China'' label. We regard it as a warning label, just the same as you would see on a package of cigarettes. Warning: purchasing this product may be hazardous to your health, your child's health or your loved one's health or your pet's health. 
   Given all the circumstances, it seems like the right thing for me to do and my family. I feel certain that other American families have made similar decisions. I know because I heard about it over and over again during the August recess at town hall meetings. I got the feeling that the Lou Dobbs family is probably among them. 
   Well, this concern about imported products is real, and it has been substantiated with real data. The United States Consumer Product Safety Commission, which is tasked with the job of trying to safeguard our society from unreasonable risk of injury and death associated with consumer products, informs me that as of this week, 2007, the year 2007, not even completed yet, but so far in year 2007, year-to-date, a record-breaking 472 consumer product safety recalls. Of the 472 consumer product safety recalls, more than 60 percent were manufactured in the People's Republic of China. 
   Are you beginning to pick up on the repetitive nature of this theme? More than 60 percent of all recall products this past year were made in China.     
   Furthermore, of the 472 total consumer product recalls, 61 of those recalls affected whom, our most vulnerable members of society, our children. Sixty-one consumer recall products were toys. And how many of those products were manufactured in the People's Republic of China you might ask? Well, I'll tell you. And the figure is illuminating. The figure is astounding. The figure is staggering. The United States Consumer Products Safety Commission estimated that over 90 percent of the toy recalls were made in China. 
   We'll take our stop button down for a minute because it doesn't seem to be doing any good anyway. Let's look at this. It's not doing any good because we don't have one and we need one. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, I'm just a simple country doctor who ran and won the race for Congress several years ago, but I find myself asking myself over and over, what in the world can we do to protect ourselves and our families? 
   Here's a poster from the Consumer Product Safety Commission that shows just a few of the consumer product recalls for the month of October: trick-or-treat bucket, some type of sword, a sprinkler that looks like a turtle, a child's gardening equipment, a bendable dinosaur, a crash helmet. I don't know what that is. I don't know what that is. A skull and cross bones and a boot. All of these things, and this is not the total amount of recalls, but all of these things were recalled, issued recalls in the month of October alone. For the safety of our families we need to get to the bottom of the cause behind all of the recalls. 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, I also sit on the Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection Subcommittee which has jurisdiction over this issue, and our committee is investigating the problem, and in the weeks to come, legislation will be introduced on this issue. We've passed bills individually recently that have dealt with specific issues, the specific safety concerns of consumer products, including a bill that I amended to make ornamental pools safer, and the committee is currently formulating comprehensive bipartisan legislation to strengthen the consumer product safety system in this country. A lot of topics are on the table, including enhancing the commission's recall authority. I firmly believe that we must improve the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission's ability to notify consumers about dangerous products more quickly and on a broader scope. 
   I am very concerned that there may be a large gap of people and associations that are not receiving the information about the product recalls in a timely manner. As we all know, products are recalled because they have been found to have some element of danger to the consumer and they need to be immediately gathered in and usage stopped and somehow safely discarded. 
   We always wonder: What are you going to do with all of those lead based toys that come into this country? You can't burn them because we don't want to breathe the lead fumes. You can't bury them in a landfill because we don't want to drink the water that has now had the lead leached out into it. So what are we going to do with all of those lead-contaminated products that are finding their way into our country? 
   And another aspect, what do you do about nonprofits, Salvation Army, Goodwill? In my hometown of Lewisville, Christian Community Action, that's located in Denton County, they can provide some invaluable resource to their communities because of what they do with recycling used products. But they also have an obligation to make certain that they comply with all of the issues resulting from a recall. 
   Now, I've been informed by some of the nonprofits back in my home districts in Texas that, through no faults of their own, they are unaware of many of the product recalls and, therefore, the fear is that they could inadvertently sell or resell a recalled product to a family or to an individual. So I'm currently working with the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission to try to close this gap. 
   Now, this is, Mr. Speaker, this is just a blowup of the Web site listing the Web site up here at the top, www.cpsc.gov, Consumer Product Safety Commission. And on the opening page there is a place where, I've got the arrow pointing to it, but there's a place on the page where you can sign up for e-mail announcements of product safety recalls and certainly encourage nonprofits to take part in that. But realistically, any American consumer, any consuming American family may well want to do the same thing so they get immediate notification through an e-mail-based system if there is a product recall. 
   Unfortunately, based on the testimony and the work we've seen that has occurred in our committee, I've got to believe that we're nowhere near the end of this. And unfortunately, as we drive further into the Christmas season, we may see other product recalls and they may yet dwarf the size of the recalls. As big as they've been, they may dwarf the size of the recalls that have already occurred this year. 
   Well, while we continue to try to close the gap through legislation, I encourage Members of Congress and, Mr. Speaker, I know we can't directly address the audience on C-SPAN, but if I could do that, I would ask them to perhaps consider signing up for the product recall safety alerts. It's easy, it's free, and it just might save a life. If you have access to an e-mail account and the Internet, all you've got to do is go to the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission's home page, again, www.cpsc.gov and sign up for free recall and safety news. So, again, www.cpsc.gov. And yes, for people who English is not the primary language, you can sign up in English and in Spanish. 
   The Consumer Product Safety Commission also has a neighborhood safety  network which is for organizations or even civic-minded individuals to help disseminate information about recalls and posters to members of society who may not be aware of the recalls. 
   We all know, Mr. Speaker, education can save lives. Unfortunately, though, certain groups of Americans, such as the elderly, urban and rural low-income families, and some minority groups often don't hear about the safety messages from the government. Certainly, additional outreach is needed. 
   One of the reasons to sign up for the product e-mail alerts is, you know, Mr. Speaker, there may be some unscrupulous vendors out there who, after a recall, after a recall has been issued, may take up and resell these products in a bargain house somewhere. So we want people to have easy and free access to the information so, obviously, they can make the best decisions. 
   So please help make your community safer by getting the word out about how to get notification on these product safety recalls. 
   I'm a member of the Neighborhood Safety Network and will disseminate information through my Web site, www.house.gov/burgess. Information available in linking you to the CPSC Web site is available through that Web site as well. Again, www.house.gov/burgess. 
   Well, with all the talking I've done on this, I'm sure some people, Mr. Speaker, would ask, is there a downside? Is there a dark side of this that we should consider? And the answer is, of course, yes. You must always be cautious of jumping over the line. We all worry about the encroaching reach and grasp of an ever-expanding Federal Government. We worry about things like federalizing our child's toy sets. But at the same time, the Federal Government does have an important duty to the safety and welfare of all Americans. And the last thing you want is for the Federal Government to have control over every item that you buy. But there's got to be a balancing test. And right now, I'm afraid the balance has tipped too far the other way, and the actual protection for the consumer doesn't exist. 
   I started out the beginning of my talk talking about recalls, and certainly the summer that we've just gone through has been the summer of recalls. We've had several of the individuals come in and testify in our committee about where the process broke down, where it went wrong. Again, there's a way to avoid the recall after recall after recall that we've witnessed the past several months in products coming in from overseas and from one country in particular; and one way to do that would be for manufacturers to increase the manufacturing that takes place in the United States of America. I can think of no better way to market your products than to say with a little American flag and a little ``Made in America'' label on that toy. 
   I mean, we talked about food safety, Mr. Speaker, at the beginning of this. You know, if I walk into a place that sells chicken, for example, and I can buy 1 bucket of chicken where the product might harm me and it costs $8, and I can buy a different bucket of chicken where the product won't harm me and it costs $9, I'm going to take the $9 bucket of chicken, thank you very much. And we hear over and over again, well, consumers don't want to pay higher prices. They want lower price. No, the consumer wants safe products, and if the consumer has to pay a little bit more to ensure that those products are safe, they're willing to do that, because everyone is sick of recall upon recall upon recall. Don't let the summer of recalls become the fall of recalls, become the winter of recalls, become the election year of recalls in 2008. We have it in our power to stop this process. Begin more manufacturing in this country. Manufacturers who step up and do that, I think, will be handsomely rewarded. Food importers who actually stop all of the importation and work with American farmers to buy American products, I think, will be rewarded. I would pay the extra buck for a bucket of chicken that wasn't going to poison me or my family. And most Americans would feel the same way. I would pay the extra buck for a 50-pound bag of dog food that's not going to give my beloved pet kidney failure and take them from me early. 
   This is a pretty simple concept. If we can assure the safety in this country, let's move the manufacturing, let's move the production, let's move the farming production to where we know we can have the safety and the oversight that's required. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have to be vigilant in our plight in restoring safety and trust back to the foods we eat and the products that we use. I believe that the legislation introduced, H.R. 3967, the Food Import and Safety Act of 2007, will further this goal, as will the enhanced recall authority by the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission that we've also talked about tonight. 
   Compromising the safety of foods we put on our tables is, frankly, not an option. Compromising consumer products we buy for our families is, frankly, not an option. Compromising the security of Americans can never be an option. Compromising cannot be an option that we take because we lack power. H.R. 3967 gives us back that power, gives us that big red stop button. If something's coming in from overseas and, hey, we see it's wrong, we see it's tainted, stop. Stop. Don't let it even come on our shores. Don't let us be the ones that have to dispose of the stuff. Stop it. Send it back where it came from. 
   We can no longer sit back and allow harmful products to reach our homes. All Americans, my family included, have the choice to take a stance individually and not buy products with those warning labels on them. The warning label, remember, says, ``Made in China,'' because those products have proven to be unsafe. 
   But we could go a little farther than that. Stricter rules are necessary. And at this juncture I would say it's up to Congress to create and enact those rules and earn back the trust of the American people in the process. 
   Thank you, Mr. Speaker. You've been very indulgent. 
   I will yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (FOOD FOR FUEL -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the Speaker, and I thank the Members on the Democratic side for yielding back their time early. 
   Mr. Speaker, I'm going to do something a little different tonight. Normally I come down here to the floor of the House to talk about health care. But we've heard a lot recently about where this country is in regards to its  energy policy. We've heard a lot recently about the high cost of food and foodstuffs, and whether or not that has been related to this country's energy policy. 
   You can call it what you want. Call it Murphy's Law, Newton's Third Law, or just the plain old law of unintended consequences, but when a government as large as ours is, and I assure you, after being here for 5 years, it is an extremely large Federal Government; but when a government as large as ours mandates the use of anything, there will be downstream effects, downrange effects that sometimes you can't predict and certainly are beyond your control. 
   A case in point is the growing crisis of food versus fuel and the debate that rages in Congress. 
   Now, the early part of this month, the 5th of May, I hosted an event billed as Food vs. Fuel: Understanding the Unintended Consequences of United States Policy. I invited representatives from the farming community, food companies, consumers, domestic charities and the press in an attempt to get a 360-degree view of this issue. 
   Now, just for the record, I want to mention the names of the people who were kind enough to spend the morning with me earlier this month and whose opinions were represented at the round table. And it was a diversity of opinions. This was certainly not a one-sided debate. 
   We had Jon Doggett from the National Corn Growers Association, their Vice President of Public Policy. We had Scott Faber of the Grocery Manufacturers Association, the Vice President for Federal affairs of that group; Bob Young of the American Farm Bureau, their chief economist. Bob Young is a Ph.D economist. Candy Hill of Catholic Charities, who is a Senior Vice President for Social Policy and Government Affairs, primarily working in the domestic realm. And last but not least, Bob Davis, a reporter for the Wall Street Journal who's reported on a number of international economic issues over the years. And it was really Mr. Davis' reports in the Wall Street Journal that prompted my interest in this subject. 
   When we had assembled this panel of experts, I asked the experts, with the policy now of so much of our corn being turned into fuel, and with food shortages an inevitable result, are America's biofuel programs the cause or the effect? 
   Now this is kind of ironic because we just voted again on the farm bill today. But here's a poster that shows perhaps some of the consequences or the unintended consequences of putting corn in the gas tank and ignoring other needs, other uses that that ear of corn might go to. 
   Has Congress been fooled into a bad fuel policy at the expense of our national food supply? 
   I went into this round table with an open mind. We had a panel that was really evenly distributed. Certainly there was no stacked deck against anyone or in favor of any one particular policy. And perhaps it's unique for a Member of Congress to not arrive at a conclusion until looking at the data. 
   So this food versus fuel matchup, is, in my opinion, another example of the law of unintended or unforeseen consequences. And, of course, the symptoms are all around us. They're impossible to deny. You turn on the TV, you click on your Internet, you read about the ever escalating cost of food prices, both domestically and across the globe, and the news is frequently paired with stories of shortages, heart rending stories of shortages, and the resulting unrest that food shortages cause abroad. 
   On April 14, the Wall Street Journal reported ``surging commodity prices have pushed global food prices 83 percent upward in the last 3 years.'' 
   My hometown paper, the Fort Worth Star Telegram, the newspaper of the largest city in my district, on May 2 of this year, they had an opinion piece in the Star Telegram that discussed how the indirect cost of ethanol hurt Texans at the grocery store.     
   Mr. Speaker, just recently, according to the Bureau of Logic Or Statistics, between the beginning of March and the beginning of May when I held this hearing, a dozen eggs, the price was up 35 percent; a gallon of milk, the price was up 23 percent; a loaf of bread, the price was up 16 percent. 
   Now, we still need to eat and so Americans are getting creative in which groceries they purchase, and they're using grocery store coupons in record rates. In 2007 alone, consumers redeemed 1.8 billion coupons, an increase of over 100 billion coupons from the previous year. Now overall, the Department of Agriculture estimates that food prices will jump 4 to 5 percent this year. 
   Now, those price increases may seem modest, but for the poorest Americans who spend a greater portion of their family budgets on food, it is, in fact, becoming a tremendous burden. 
   Cherries across the country are being challenged by the rising food prices. It's more expensive to buy food. Donations are going down, and more people are then turning to charities for assistance. 
   So they've got a rising population that is coming in and asking for help, and their prices that they have to pay in order to provide that help is going up. And clearly those two are on unsustainable paths. 
   Catholic Charities USA, one of the largest social networks in helping almost 8 million people a year, has seen a 60-percent increase in people seeking food and nutrition services across the country since 2002. In 2006 alone, Catholic charities saw a 12-percent increase in the number of individuals seeking help in order to provide food for themselves and their families. 
   Rising food prices are not merely a domestic issue. They have international implications as well. 
   Let me share this poster, and this is from a recent Washington Post series called, The Global Food Crisis, which depicts the haves versus the have-nots in the industrial world versus developing countries. And this graphic reads, ``North America helps feed the world supplying about half of the growable grain exports. People in developing countries spend up to 80 percent of their money on food. So when food prices rise sharply, partially as a result of supply changes in North America and other producing countries, the world's poor feel it the most right in the gut.'' 
   The results of tighter supplies are reverberating literally across the globe, and they do have dire consequences. In Haiti, the capital city of Port-au-Prince, rioters have taken to the streets to protest higher food prices. The violence has gotten so significant that in fact it resulted in a governmental change in that country. Similar unrest has erupted in Egypt, Cameroon, the Ivory Coast, Senegal, and Ethiopia. 
   May 5 was prior to the devastating events, the cyclone in Burma and the earthquake in China. I submit that all of these problems that were of significant proportion on May 5 of this year have now gotten that much larger because of the results of those twin catastrophes, and we're only just now about to enter into hurricane season in this country. 
   Robert Zoellick, the president of the World Bank, estimates that 33 countries are in danger of experiencing similar unrest as a result of food prices and food shortages. While food shortages hurt people the most, they also harm American policy. One of our greatest diplomatic strengths is through foreign aid. Last week, President Bush requested an additional $770 million in emergency food assistance for poor countries responding to rising food prices that have caused social unrest in several nations. 
   So what is the conventional wisdom on higher grocery bills here at home and lower food stores at an international level? 
   In my previous life of as a physician, I was given to making diagnoses. My diagnosis in this situation, as a result of many experts saying that the United States' biofuel policy is to blame for increase in food prices and a decrease in food supplies; the argument then is that Federal mandates to produce more biofuels have, number one, diverted more crops from food to fuel, and two, increased the demand for crop building blocks like fertilizer, water, and transportation. And those inputs have increased the cost of biofuel costs like corn and soybeans and other nonbiofuel crops like rice and wheat as well. 
   The International Food Policy Research Institute suggests that biofuel production accounts for a quarter to a  third of the recent increases in global commodity prices. Within the United Nations, the Food and Agricultural Organization has predicted that biofuel production, assuming current mandates continue, will increase food costs by 10 to 15 percent. That's an important point: assuming current mandates continue an additional 10 to 15 percent, in addition to the 5 percent rise that we've already seen this year. 
   Well, let's talk a minute because there is some confusion on what is a biofuel. 
   If you Google ``biofuel'' on the Internet, you will find out the following: A biofuel is defined as a solid, liquid, or gas fuel containing or consisting of or derived from recently dead biological material, most commonly plants. This distinguishes it from fossil fuel which is derived from biological material that has long been dead--been dead a long time. And what are the building blocks of biofuel? Commodities like corn, soybeans, sugarcanes, vegetable oil that can be used either as food or to make biofuels. 
   And probably the best or most well-known biofuel is, of course, ethanol. In the United States, the primary source of ethanol is from corn currently, 95 percent. Ethanol is a type of alcohol made by fermenting and distilling simple sugars. It's the same compound that's found in our alcoholic beverages, and its primary use in the United States, as a fuel, is as an additive to gasoline. 
   Now, the ethanol policy in this country goes back to the Arab oil embargoes of 1973 and 1979. Since that time, the production of fuel ethanol has been encouraged through the Federal tax incentives of ethanol-blended gasoline. 
   In 2005 when the Republicans were in control of Congress, the Energy Policy Act established a renewable fuel standard which mandated the use of ethanol. 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuel must be blended with the Nation's gasoline by 2012. 
   But then last year right at the end of the year, Congress passed the Energy Independence and Security Act which increased this renewable fuel standard to require 36 billion gallons of biofuel additives for transportation fuels by 2022. 
   Now, according to the United States Department of Agriculture, 3.2 billion bushels of corn will be used to produce roughly 6 billion gallons of fuel ethanol during the current corn marketing year, September 2007 through the end of August of 2008. 
   Well, let's talk a little bit about corn because it is important. 
   This poster tells a little bit about two different types of corn: field corn and sweet corn. Field corn is the most--is what is mostly grown in America. It's primarily used to feed livestock and to produce ethanol. So field corn is used for fuel, and sweet corn is used for human consumption. 
   This graphic also explains to some degree how the field corn is used. The pie chart there at the bottom shows a little less than half, about 47 percent of field corn, the type of corn used to produce ethanol, was used for animal feed; about a quarter, 24 percent, was used for ethanol; 19 percent was exported, and 10 percent was used for direct human consumption in various forms. 
   Now, those who believe biofuels are to blame for rising food prices argue that its fundamentally wrong to divert food meant for tables into gas tanks when there are those going hungry both here at home and abroad. Additionally, they argue that ethanol production is fighting off a potential environmental crisis and a potential dependence on foreign oil, but we face an actual crisis in food production in the United States. 
   Ethanol opponents also point to significant scientific research regarding the environmental impacts of ethanol production. And what are they? It's important to look at those environmental impacts. 
   Scientific research shows that the use of crop lands for biofuels actually increases greenhouse gasses through emissions from land-use change. Work by Tim Searchinger of the Georgetown Environmental Law and Policy Institute, which recently appeared in Science magazine, argues that the land-use change from forest to grassland to new cropland nearly doubles greenhouse grass emissions over 30 years and increases those greenhouse gasses for over 150 years. 
   The important innovation in this research is that prior studies would show a 20-percent savings in emissions neglect the impact of land-use change, and clearly the doctor's work shows that that is significant. 
   Now, as farmers respond to the rising demand for corn, they create new cropland, and they create that what? Out of grassland and forest. Plowing up more forest or grassland releases more of the carbon dioxide previously stored or more of carbon previously stored in plants and soils through decomposition and that which is burned when fields are cleared by burning. 
   Also, the loss of forests and grasslands prevents the plants from performing their own form of carbon sequestration in the stocks and leaves and roots of the plant. 
   Significant critiques have risen from this research. For example, Searchinger's work supposes that there's a constant yield per acre of corn, but if an acre of corn yield has increased over 300 percent since 1944, then new technologies have contributed to a 30 percent increase in the last decade. Research conducted by the National Academy of Sciences shows the biofuel mandates are contributing to air pollution, water pollution, and they do compound water shortages. 
   Now, on the other side, and we heard from the other side during this hearing, those who support the use of corn for ethanol. In terms of economic security, ethanol supporters argue that the production of biofuels goes a long way in helping end our dependence on foreign oil. We can grow our own fuel here at home thus supporting our domestic economy. At the same time, we don't have to rely on rogue regimes in unstable parts of the world for the vast majority of our fuel needs which enhances our national security. 
   The rising prices of food aren't caused by biofuel mandates, per se. Growing demand in global markets, especially China and India, drive up the price. Additionally, they point out that shortages caused by bad weather in places like Australia, and in fact they point out that--people who support the use of biofuels point out that climate change may be to blame since certain areas of the world where grain was once grown no longer have the weather to support those types of crops. 
   Another issue that is often brought up is meat consumption in China has risen from 25 kilograms per person in 1995 to over 50 kilograms per person in 2007. On average, it takes 5 kilograms of grain to produce 1 kilogram of meat, while the demand for meat has grown 28 kilograms per person. The resulting demand for grain has increased by 7.8 billion bushels. 
   So with these two conflicting and opposing viewpoints, what do you think? Is it biofuels that are causing the high grocery prices, or is it just a result of natural forces within the world? And if the issue is that increased biofuels production is contributing to the high cost of food, what would be the answer? What would be the prescription for curing that ailment? 
   So certainly we're going to continue to provide hunger relief both here and at home. But we could look at freezing the renewable fuel standards and rolling back some biofuel mandates, certainly providing increased incentives to make breakthroughs on cellulosic ethanol so we won't be using our food to fuel our cars. 
   And that may be what is at the central part of this argument. As well intentioned as the policy was in 2005 when the Republican House of Representatives dictated renewable fuel standard, and as forward-thinking as it was in December of this past year when the Democratic House increased that renewable fuel standard, it all depended upon the advancement in technology.     
   We can't continue to turn this much foodstuff into fuel for our automobiles and trucks. We depend upon this policy, depend upon the advancement, the breakdown of the cellulose in the plant wall to make ethanol and not distilling of ethanol from the starch and sugars that are contained in the grain component. 
   Until we achieve that breakthrough of cellulosic ethanol, and I believe it will occur one day, but until that time occurs, it is almost not reasonable to  assume that we will be able to meet the country's growing transportation fuel demands through production of ethanol, certainly by diverting our foodstuff into that product. 
   Another thing that we could do, and this was a point that was so eloquently stated by Mr. Davis in the Wall Street Journal, we can change the way the United States handles its delivery of foreign aid, the commodity versus cash approach. The current approach is to buy excess United States production of grain and then deliver that product to the country where the crisis exists, but if we were to shift that approach and begin supporting local agriculture in developing Nations, it could break the cycle of dependence on foreign aid and break the cycle of hunger and famine. 
   I don't think there's any question at this point that we have to be looking at other sources. Now, we had a pretty interesting debate on the floor of this House this past week, and we heard the Democrats talk about that in their last hour. This was the debate about the temporary stoppage of filling what's known as the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Now it's a small amount that would actually be put back in to increase supply in this country, but for the first time, for the first time, there appeared to be genuine, bilateral, bipartisan agreement that increasing supply was a way to positively affect fuel prices here in this country. 
   Every other debate that we've had, certainly since I've been in Congress, when it comes down to an issue of increasing supply, generally 90 percent of the people on my side of the aisle are in favor of it, and 90 percent of the people on the other side of the aisle are opposed. ANWR is perhaps the poster child for this, and we heard a great deal about that in the hour previous to the last hour when Mr. Peterson from Pennsylvania talked about where we would be today had then-President Clinton not vetoed the provision that would have allowed drilling in ANWR in 1996, some 12 years ago. 
   We're told it would take 7 to 8 to 10 years to actually deliver finished product out of ANWR into the marketplace in this country. Well, guess what, if we had started that in 1996, we'd be using that oil today, and we wouldn't be feeling the repercussions in the price at the pump that we see today. There wouldn't be the pressure on diverting food into fuel if only we'd paid attention to supply. 
   But maybe that day is at hand. Again, we had broad bilateral commitment, broad bipartisan commitment, both sides of the aisle in this House that said temporarily we're going to stop filling the Strategic Petroleum Reserve because, my opinion at least, there was broad bipartisan agreement that increasing supply even just a little bit would be a positive effect on prices at the pump. 
   So how much more good could we do if we moved off that minuscule amount and looked at some of the other ways to increase the supply? Now there's not a person in this Congress, I don't think, that feels that someday we're going to get a lot of our fuels from different sources than we see today, but right now, it's coal, it's natural gas, it's oil. That's what's available to drive our economy, and sure, we may want to pivot to a day where that energy production comes from somewhere else, but until we get there--and we are not there yet on cellulosic ethanol by a long shot, and if we turn all this stuff into ethanol for our cars, we have unintended consequences and unintended repercussions downrange and downstream that are quite severe. 
   So this Congress really needs to take a serious look at ways that we can increase supply because, again, apparently all agree that increasing supply is going to be a good thing as far as its effect on fuel prices in this country. 
   So maybe ANWR's too emotional. Maybe we can't do it. Maybe we just have to leave that one in the too-hard box for a little while, and I would say, okay, but bring us your ideas from the other side of the aisle. Let's not make it all about turning this stuff into something we can put in our automobiles. Let's make it about how do we deliver more usable energy for the American people, how do we maintain the American economy. 
   Is it going to be nuclear? We can talk about that. I'd love it if we talked about that. Is it going to be drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf as Mr. Peterson outlined or in the Intermountain West, to the oil shales in Canada? The fact is, we've got reliable supplies of energy here at home, but we've put an embargo on American energy and that, quite frankly, just simply does not make any sense. 
   But it was a new day here in Congress this week when both sides, in a bipartisan fashion, said, by golly, increasing supply is going to be a good thing for the American energy consumer, and we're going to do that. And we only did a little bit by temporarily stopping filling the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, but maybe that new day has dawned and we're now going to have a meaningful discussion on where the common ground is, where we can meet in the middle and work on increasing that supply for the American people. 
   Because, quite honestly, until we get to the day of the promise of cellulosic ethanol, this is not going to be a formula for success, and in fact, unintended consequences of this behavior may have absolutely devastating and dire consequences around the world. 
   You know, the law of unintended consequences used to be that it took almost a generation for those unintended consequences to come home and to come back around and work their effect. But we're in a time now where the effect of unintended consequences can be felt very, very quickly. 
   We heard in the last hour the discussion about the reauthorization of higher education and student loans. Well, remember, we did something to student loans in September of last year. Then we had to turn around and undo it in April or May of this year because of the unintended consequences and the fact that we were driving up interest rates at the same time that availability of credit was coming down. And we were worried that no student loans were going to be available when this summer's crop of students went to apply for those loans in June, July and August. 
   Unintended consequences have a way of coming around extremely quickly, and the unintended consequences of increasing the renewable fuel standard that this Congress undertook in December of 2007 has very quickly come home and the repercussions and reverberations are being felt around the world, and it's leading to instability in governments in this hemisphere. 
   Is that something we want? We always talk about the world that we want to leave for our children. Is that the type of world we want to leave for our children where worldwide hunger and worldwide deprivation lead to instability in developing countries? I don't think so. 
   I think it is time that this Congress needs to take action. After all, part of this crisis is of our doing. We should understand, this Congress should understand, the leadership of this Congress should understand about unintended consequences. 
   Now a lot of people who serve in this House are politicians, and that's not a great surprise. And politicians have the urge to respond to public opinion and try to mold their policies to reflect public opinion. But we need to be careful when we respond like that. As policymakers, we have an obligation to enact, well, responsible policy. That's what we're sent here to do. We're sent here to find sensible solutions. 
   Now Congress can't control foreign demand. Congress, I don't think, can control the weather. There may be some in this body who feel that they can, but we can address the effect of unintended consequences of our biofuel policy which diverts a quarter of our national corn supply to ethanol production, a quarter, a quarter of our annual national corn supply to ethanol. 
   Congress and our President have nothing but good intentions--we care so deeply about people--nothing but good intentions in promoting the expansion of renewable fuels, but ethanol is not the energy security silver bullet that many people believe it to be. 
   Last year, we burned 24 percent of our national corn supply as fuel, and we reduced our oil consumption by almost 1 percent. Unintended consequences are almost always unenvisioned consequences as well. If you lack the vision to look over the horizon and see what's coming next, unintended consequences are likely right around the corner. 
   Obviously it was not the intent to cause distress both at home and  abroad, but good intentions are not sufficient cause for Congress to plant its head in the sand and ignore what is becoming increasingly obvious. 
   Our renewable standard is creating problems with food prices here at home and food shortages abroad. It's leading to destabilization of world governments because of the effect of hunger and deprivation in developing countries. It is time for this Congress to get it right. It's time for this Congress to reexamine those renewable fuel standards, back off for a while until the price situation stabilizes in the world market. And we have to get serious about increasing energy supply to run this economy, to run what Ronald Reagan described as the last best hope on Earth for democracy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - October 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor of the House tonight, as I often do, to talk a little bit about health care, the status of health care here in America. 
   Tonight, if we could, I would like to talk a little bit about the past, talk some about the present, and maybe just look a little bit into the future. 
   Mr. Speaker, as I see it, over the last 70 years there have been three transformational times in American medicine: one in the 1940s, one in the 1960s, and I believe we are on the threshold or the beginning of another transformational time here early in the 21st century. 
   Mr. Speaker, medicine itself, the science of medicine, is pretty highly ordered, highly structured. It's very scientific. The scientific method is always employed in medicine. And when you get to government politics, government policy in regards to health care, in regards to medicine you would expect it to also rest on a firm foundation of science. But I have to tell you, Mr. Speaker, after being here for less than 5 years, you oftentimes see where that intersection of health care policy and health care reality sometimes creates more confusion than shedding light on the subject. And the thing is, Mr. Speaker, when we create these policies in Congress, we affect things not just today, not just for the time the bill-signing occurs, but we affect things for decades into the future. And that is the responsibility that we hold in our hands here in this House of Representatives when we talk about changes in the health care system.     
   Now, Mr. Speaker, I referred to the 1940s as a transformational time in medicine. Obviously there were a lot of things going on in the world in the 1940s. But just prior to the 1940s, Mr. Alexander Flemming, an Englishman, made a startling discovery. He made a discovery that a mold, the penicillin mold, created a substance that was diffusible across an auger plate that would inhibit the growth of bacteria. He further found that this substance apparently was not harmful to humans. So we have the concept of selective toxicity, something that will attack a microbe and not hurt the host; the first time that science had delivered that type of hope, that type of promise to the world. 
   Now, Sir Alexander Flemming, receiving all the accolades he did for discovering penicillin, really created, at that point, something that was in such short supply, was so difficult to produce and so expensive that it really had no practical utility. It was almost like a medical trick or parlor game, but it was not something that could be generally used by the public, who was ill and needed access to the medicine. But American scientists, working in this country, created a system whereby they could grow large quantities of this mold, remove the substance from the vats that surrounded it, and purify it in large quantities. This occurred in 1942. We were in the middle of World War II. What a phenomenal discovery. Now this wonder drug that had only recently been discovered but was so rare, so scarce and so expensive that it had no practical utility, now it was cheap, readily available and, in fact, probably made a significant difference in the recovery of some of our soldiers who were wounded in the landing in Normandy. Battlefield infections were notoriously bad for causing loss of life and limb, and now we had an agent that was capable of treating those. 
   Now, another discovery that occurred in the 1940s, cortisone had been discovered before the 1940s, but again, a laborious process for actually extracting this anti-inflammatory medicine. In fact, Mr. Speaker, they extracted it from the adrenal glands of oxen. So you can imagine how labor intensive that process was. And so only small amounts of this compound were available to treat injured individuals. 
   But in the 1940s, an individual, Dr. Percy Julian, a Ph.D. biochemist, in fact we honored Percy Julian on the floor of this House as one of the outstanding African American scientists of the last century. I think we did that during the last Congress. And I was very happy to vote for that because Dr. Julian's contribution to American medicine was nothing short of astounding. He was able to use a precursor of a soybean and create cortisone in a laboratory and mass produce it. Once again we had a wonder drug that previously was available only in such small supply as to only be of benefit to a handful of people; now, suddenly, it was readily available, and available to large numbers of people at a reasonable price. 
   So the 1940s ushered in the era of anti-infective antibiotic agents and anti-inflammatory agents, two true wonder drugs that, again, American medicine had not had available prior to that time. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, today we get sick, we go see the doc, he or she writes out a script, tears it off, sends you on the way to the pharmacy, you get it filled and you never give it a second thought. But prior to 1940, that wasn't an option; it didn't happen. Again, our soldiers landing in Normandy who were injured had available for the first time an anti-infective agent that was of such caliber that it provided many of those wounded men to gain back the use of limbs that otherwise would have been placed in peril by battlefield injuries. 
   The discovery of cortisone really revolutionized at that time the treatment of illnesses such as Lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. There are other medications that are available now. Cortisone, of course, has some side effects and some problems, but still, cortisone is in widespread use in a number of areas in medicine today. So still, these are concepts that we benefit from. 
   When you also think of the 1940s, what else was going on? Well, of course, the Second World War. We were in the middle of a two-front war. The American workforce was severely contracted because of the number of men and women who were fighting for our country, so employers back in this country who wanted to produce the material for the war, who wanted to continue to operate their businesses, were pretty hard pressed to find employees to work there. 
   One of the things that was happening during the war, because of this shortage of workforce, was that compensation for workers started going up pretty fast. President Roosevelt saw that and felt that he needed to put some brakes on the rapid growth of wages; otherwise, the economy would get out of control and inflation would spiral out of control. So he put in place wage and price controls, and he did so because, again, the country was at war and the severe contraction of the workforce caused disruption of the labor market, and the President sought to correct that. 
   Now, employers said we want to do things for our employees that make them want to work for us and make them not look for other employment in other locations, so if we can't offer  wages, can we offer benefits? Could we, perhaps, offer retirement benefits? Could we, perhaps, offer health benefits? And the United States Supreme Court ruled in 1944 that, indeed, those benefits could be offered and they would not violate the spirit of the wage and price controls. And furthermore, they should be available to the individuals as a pretax expense. And hence, the era of employer-derived health insurance as a pretax expense was born and survives to this day. And many people are very satisfied with that as a method of having insurance for their health care. And it has its roots back in 1940. Again, a truly transformational time in American medicine. We've got new medicines to treat infections and inflammatory conditions, and we've got a new way of paying for health care for Americans in employer-derived health insurance. 
   The 1960s; what do we see then? We see the introduction of new generations of antibiotics, antibiotics that were more potent. Some bugs had developed resistances to the old antibiotics; we had new antibiotics that were less prone for bacteria developing resistance. We had new antipsychotic medications. We had new antidepressant medications, medications to treat conditions that heretofore had not been treatable. There had not been a rational or a viable treatment available to those patients. 
   What else did we see in the 1960s? We saw in this House, in 1965, the enactment of a law that we now know as Medicare for protection of United States seniors. For the first time the United States Government was in a position to finance a large portion of health care in this country. In fact, since 1965, over the last 42 years, the portion of health care that is paid for by the Federal Government, about 50 cents out of every health care dollar, begins right here in Washington, D.C. You've got Medicare/Medicaid, the VA System, the Indian Health Service, TRICARE, Department of Defense, as well as the Federal prison system. A lot of health care is paid for and it originates here in the United States Congress. 
   The other 50 percent, commercial insurance to be sure, some self-pay. And I would actually include the newer health savings accounts in that part that I would designate as self-pay. And then of course there is some care that is just simply not paid for, and some that is given as charity by the hospital or the doctor who provides the care and does not expect compensation. 
   And now, early in the 21st century, I believe, again, is a transformational time in American medicine. And I think it extends before us really as far as the eye can see. Mr. Speaker, I think this transformation will occur whether we want it to or not. Whether we lead it or not, the transformation will happen. Changes in information technology, concepts like rapid learning, changes in the practice of medicine regarding genomics, protein science. A new era of personalized medicine extends before us. And as we usher in this new era in medicine, how can we facilitate or at least not obstruct the scientific discoveries and allow this important process to go forward? And nowhere will this be more starkly apparent than in our ability to provide this new care at an affordable price to the majority of Americans and ensure that there are the doctors involved who will deliver that care. 
   Now, as I see it, the problem right now is that most health care is administered through some type of 
   third-party arrangement so the patient and, quite honestly, the physician is generally aware of the cost of care that they receive. This arrangement has created an environment that permits the rapid growth, the rapid escalation of prices in all sectors of health care. So how do we improve the model of this current hybrid system, this public/private partnership that we have right now? How do we improve the current hybrid system that involves both public and private payment for health care but at the same time anesthetizes most of us to the true cost of that care? 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, we hear it all the time here on the floor of this House that we're just entering into the first retirees of the baby boom, and this is all we can see demographically for years and years to come. There will be more demand for medical services. Medical procedures and techniques and pharmaceuticals will tend to cost more because there is the advancing complexity of what we're able to do. Medicine is going to continue to evolve as it always has. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, Alan Greenspan, former Chairman of the Federal Reserve, right around the time that he was retiring spoke to a group of us one morning, and the inevitable question came up to Mr. Greenspan, ``How in the world are we ever going to pay for the liability that we have in Medicare in the future?'' And Mr. Greenspan was quite circumspect about it, but eventually he offered the opinion that, when the time came, the Congress would find the courage and the resources to do what was necessary, and he thought that Medicare would be solvent into the future. He then stopped and went on to add, ``What concerns me more is will there be anyone there to deliver the service at the time you need it?'' 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, I will tell you that those words have stuck with me these last 2 years and caused me to devote a great deal of time and study to the concept of the physician workforce in the United States. Let me just share with you, Mr. Speaker, the Texas Medical Association, back in my home State of Texas, puts out a magazine every month called ``Texas Medicine,'' and this was their March issue of this year, and the title story was, ``Running Out of Doctors.'' My State is far below the national average when it comes to physicians. The national average is 230 per 100,000 residents; Texas' ratio is 186 to 100,000 residents. The American Academy of Family Physicians predicts serious shortages of primary care doctors in five States, including Texas. And further, they go on to say that ``all States will have some level of family physician shortage by the year 2020.'' That's 13 years from now, three Presidential elections from now. 
   The Council on Graduate Medical Education, a congressionally authorized entity, estimates that after 2010, growth in the physician workforce will slow substantially, and that after 2015, the rate of population growth will exceed the rate of growth in the number of physicians. 
   Now, what do we do? My opinion, I think there is a three-part approach, a three-part solution to mitigate this shortage in the future. 
   First and foremost, and it seems so simple that I cannot believe that it doesn't occur to more people, we need to construct a payment system, particularly on the governmental side, that pays doctors fairly to keep them in practice longer. Additionally, improved assistance to medical students, to encourage college students and medical students to go into medicine and practice in high-need specialties in medically underserved areas. And then finally, to increase the number of residency programs, especially in rural or suburban areas, to keep the physician pipeline open. 
   And the real crux of this article, Mr. Speaker, in ``Running Out of Doctors,'' was the observation that doctors tend to have a lot of inertia. We don't tend to go very far from where we're hatched. And doctors who go through a residency program tend to practice within 50 to 100 miles of the location of that residency. That's why, if we can encourage the development of more residency programs in underserved areas, we will encourage the growth of the physician workforce in that area. 
   So, before we go completely into the three-point solution aimed at mitigating the possibility of an even greater solution in the future, let's talk about some of the basic principles that I had in mind as I developed this concept of physician workforce reform. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, I believe that Congress must develop physician workforce initiatives that ensure future patient access and sustain a robust physician workforce, and this must be both separate, but complimentary, to Medicaid physician payment reform. Why do I say that? Well, Mr. Speaker, as you know and many in Congress know and many across America know, in Medicare we have different payment systems for part B as opposed to part A, part C and part D. In A, part C and part D, there is sort of a cost of living adjustment every year for hospitals, for HMOs, for drug companies. There is a cost of living adjustment that occurs every year so that these institutions, these entities are reimbursed based upon the cost of inputs.     
   But part B, the physician part, is under an entirely different formula that is coupled to the gross domestic product. Furthermore, it is a finite, a finite, number of dollars that are available to pay physicians who participate in the Medicare program. What happens over time, since that doesn't grow, what happens over time, the individual payments to physicians are scheduled to shrink 5 to 10 percent a year over the next 9- to 10-year budgetary cycle. 
   This program is so unfair that it causes physicians to retire early, stop seeing Medicare patients and leave the physician workforce. The solution is very, very simple, and it is one that is so simple that, quite frankly, it oftentimes gets lost in all of the other talk and debate. The solution to this problem is stop the cuts, repeal the formula, and then replace it with the Medicare economic index, the cost-of-living formula that hospitals, HMOs and drug companies are paid with. 
   Now, the current Medicare payment system exacerbates negative physician workforce trends. That is why I feel that the sustainable growth rate formula must be eliminated. Let me just show you a little graph of that. Mr. Speaker, I think this graph accurately represents what I am talking about. Again, we talk about the physician payment as compared to HMOs, hospitals and, in this bar graph, nursing homes. You can see over the years 2002 to 2007 increases in HMOs, hospitals, and nursing homes and very flat increases for a few years for physician payment after an initial decline, and actually this was projected for 2007. We actually held physician payment at a zero percent update, which anywhere else other than in Washington, D.C. let's be honest, that would be a cut but we call it a zero percent update because we like to be euphemistic when we talk to our physician friends. Again, I submit, stop the cuts, repeal the formula. 
   Now, any new system that we create has to be able to adjust for growth in services, but it has to be agile enough to determine what constitutes appropriate care in service and service volume when growth results in better patient outcomes. Any new coverage decisions by law or regulation must be accompanied by additional financial sources relative to their value for the services. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, we spent a lot of time in my committee, Committee on Energy and Commerce, last year having hearings about physician payments. And one of the things that is obvious when you look at recent trends in Medicare outlays is that in fact the trustees report that came out last June talking about the year 2005; 600,000 fewer hospitals beds were filled that year. Why? Because the physician component is doing things better, more timely treatment of disease. I will submit that perhaps some of the new Medicare prescription drug program is playing a role in that as well; doctors are doing more procedures in their offices in ambulatory surgery centers. 
   The net effect of that, Mr. Speaker, is to keep down the costs for part A, but then that expense occurs in part B. So how could we get the savings that we are managing for part A, how could we get that back for part B? That is really the challenge that is before us. 
   Now, the Congressional Budget Office and all of the budgetary people who work up here on Capitol Hill will tell you that you can't prospectively go out and say, since you are going to save so much money, you saved so much money last year, and you are going to save so much money next year and the year thereafter, but you can't get credit for that until it actually happens. My belief is that savings will occur. It will accrue. 
   So what if we pay it forward, so to speak, we don't repeal the SGR in 2008 or 2009, we will repeal it in 2010. But in the meantime, 2008 and 2009 whatever savings occur because the physicians in part B are doing things better, cheaper and safer and saving money for part A, part C and part D, that those savings be sequestered and they be walled off. Remember the famous lockbox for 2000 everybody talked about for Social Security? Let's drag up that lockbox and put the savings in the lockbox, and we will open it up in 2010 and reduce the cost of repealing the SGR formula. 
   That has been the obstacle, Mr. Speaker. The Congressional Budget Office estimates the cost of repealing the SGR today right now at $268 billion. Last year when I tried a different approach to this same problem, the cost for repeal was the $218 billion. It goes up every year. One of the reasons it goes up every year is that every year we come swooping in at the last minute with some sort of last-minute fix. But all that money that we used to come in for that last-minute fix gets added on to the budgetary out-years. So we compound the problem. Every year that we don't fix it, we compound it. That is why it is so critical to fix that date that we repeal the formula. 
   Now, in the bill 2585 that I have introduced, we actually do that. We actually capture and sequester those savings and use that paying it forward to bring the cost of repealing the SGR down. 
   Now, just a couple of other points in general about physician workforce, preserving the physician workforce. You know, I said the SGR formula, the sustainable growth rate formula, is linked to the growth in the gross domestic product. There is a reason for that. That needs to be delinked. Quality reporting. What about quality reporting? We hear a lot about that. We hear a lot about pay for performance here on the floor of this House. Well, Mr. Speaker, I would submit to you, pay for performance is keeping the mature physician involved in the practice of medicine. If we drive all of our talented and experienced doctors out of the practice of medicine because of what we are doing with the Medicare formulas, it is going to be pretty tough to pay for performance. 
   Now, I do think some type of performance indicators need to be included in whatever process is going forward. We don't need to reinvent the wheel every time we sit down to talk about this. Many of the specialty organizations have already developed their own criteria. We have the QIOs. The quality improvement organizations have been in existence really I think for 20 years since the latter part of the second Reagan term. So these measures are all available to us. 
   What I would submit is that if a doctor or a physician group would voluntarily report to one of these quality measures, that there be some positive adjustment, in whatever formula we give them, that there be some positive adjustment for participating in that quality activity. 
   Similarly, I talked a little bit about this in the beginning. We are in a transformational time. What is one of the things that is going to drive that transformation? It is going to be changes in health information technology, whether we want it to or not. We struggled with the health information technology bill last year. We talked a little bit about one this year. The fact remains, it is happening whether Congress is involved or not. As a consequence, I think we ought to do what we can to encourage physicians' offices and individual physicians to begin to embrace this, to begin to investigate this and an additional positive update would be available to physicians who voluntarily participated in improvements in health information technology and their individual practices. 
   You know, Mr. Speaker, one of the things that I 
   think would make a lot of sense and I don't know why we haven't done it, we ought to share with our Medicare beneficiaries what did your care cost last year. I get a statement from the Social Security Administration about what my Social Security contributions have been year over year since I first started paying that FICA tax. We could do the same thing with our Medicare patients: What did you contribute over your working lifetime? And now what are expenses attributable to you that are incurred to the system? That information should be confidential. You obviously don't publish that, but give back to the patient that information on what the cost of their care was over the past year because otherwise they have no benchmark. They have no way to know are they, in fact, getting value for their dollar or not. 
   So there are three bills that I've introduced to help tackle these problems and get at the essentials of what is creating the near havoc situation in the physician workforce. I think these bills are essential to ensuring that America will always have a good supply of  qualified, satisfied doctors to address the growing health care needs of an ever-growing population. 
   Now, we have already talked a little bit about the sustainable growth rate formula. Getting Medicare payment policy right is the first point to make in any type of reform that is going to affect the physician workforce. Paying physicians fairly will extend the careers of many doctors who otherwise would just simply opt out of Medicare or opt out of the practice of medicine entirely. Paying physicians fairly also has the effect of ensuring an adequate network of doctors. That adequate network of doctors is available to treat some of those complex patients we have in this country, and that is the elderly patient on Medicare and as this country makes a transition to the workforce of the future. 
   Now, the bill I introduced, 2585, Ensuring the Physician Workforce Act of 2007, modifies the Medicare physician reimbursement policies. It is important because you do have to pay doctors fairly for their services so that they will want to go into medicine, they will want to continue to practice medicine, and maybe even practice medicine to a later point in their life. So we extend the effective practice life of physicians who are already out there practicing. 
   Now, the fundamentals of 2585 we have covered already a little bit. But I like to think of it as a workforce solution for the mature physician. It provides sustainable Medicare reimbursement now and in the future by getting out of the chasm created by the sustainable growth rate formula and completely eliminating the sustainable growth rate formula by the year 2010. It includes truly transformational incentives to further the development and implementation of quality measures and health information technology in a way that makes sense to the business aspect of the practice of medicine. 
   Furthermore, in 2008 and 2009, physicians could opt to take advantage of those bonuses, return value back to their practices, and, in fact, return value back to the taxpayer by participating in those measures. Quality measures would be built around high-cost conditions and strive to improve the quality of care for those conditions and ultimately drive down the cost of delivering the care in the Medicare program. The bill would also include a Federal incentive to implement health information technology along with provisions providing safe harbors for the sharing of software, technical assistance and hardware as well as the creation of a health information technology consortium. 
   That last point is important because there are laws and regulations that Congress has passed in the past that prevent hospitals and doctors working together to develop the type of health information technology network that is really going to be necessary to manage this sea change that we are going to see in medicine in the coming years. 
   I will confess, Mr. Speaker, let me put another chart up here. Mr. Speaker, I will readily acknowledge that I have not always been a firm believer in things like health information technology and electronic medical records. In fact, right before I left practice, my practice in medicine, we were given a charge to beta test an electronic e-prescribing sort of format and there was certainly no financial outlay on our part. We were simply to use these little hand-held devices and report back as to their utility. There were obviously some plus sides. You knew right away if there was a drug interaction or a patient had an allergy that wasn't apparent on their chart. The computer knew and it would flag that for you. But it slowed you down. It slowed you down in that it took about a minute or 1 1/2 minutes to add this information in for the patient. 
   Mr. Speaker, when I first went into private practice after I completed my residency at Parkland Hospital, went into private practice in 1981, reimbursement rates were such that if you saw 15 to 17 patients a day, you pay your overhead and have a nice amount to take home at the end of the month. With everything that has happened with HMO declining reimbursement rates, from private insurance declining reimbursement rates from the government-funded sector of health care to be sure and a growing government sector of health care that historically underfunds their component and undercompensates their component, what has happened over time in order to maintain that similar amount of money that is needed to pay for overhead and have something to take home at the end of the month, physicians are now finding that instead of seeing three patients an hour, they have to see five. Instead of working 7 hours in the office, they now need to work 8 or 9. 
   So if you are not seeing 35 or 40 patients a day, you may not be measuring up as far as covering that overhead and having something to take back to your family. After all, they put up with the sacrifice and aggravation of having you, their husband or father as a physician, meaning you are frequently gone from home, you go and leave in the middle of the night to attend to problems. And we always do that willingly and lovingly; but at the same time, it does create wear and tear on families, and certainly any doctor's family can tell you that. Doctors, over time, have tended to be fairly well compensated. As a consequence, families have been ready and willing to accept that. But in order to maintain that same level, we have gone from a time where we were seeing 15 to 17 patients in a day to 35 to 40 patients in a day. 
   Let me go back to the e-prescribing. If it is taking you 1 1/2 minutes to enter in the patient data and hit the send key to send the e-mail to the pharmacy to provide that prescription for that patient, that is another hour you have added on to that physician's day.     
   How are you going to pay the doctor for that? None of this has ever been worked out. If you go even further and say we're going to go with a full-on electronic record, there's a learning curve there. It's going to take some time, and it's going to slow that doctor down. Not only will it slow him down so he is able to see fewer patients, it slows him down so that there's less face time, if you will, with the patient, less time to listen to what the patient is saying, to look the patient in the eye and make sure you're getting the straight story so that you come to the correct diagnosis. 
   Mr. Speaker, I was late to come to the table as far as electronic medical records. I will tell you the sentinel moment that changed my mind, that shifted me on this issue, and said, you know, it is going to take more time; there has to be a way to compensate doctors for the time involved in doing that e-prescribing and creating those electronic medical records. 
   Well, 2 years ago, of course, we were suffering in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Two years ago next January our Committee on Energy and Commerce had a field hearing down in New Orleans, and one of the places we went on that field hearing was to Charity Hospital, one of the venerable old teaching institutions in this country. Many of my professors at Parkland Hospital had been trained by professors at Charity Hospital. It was truly an icon in American medicine. It was absolutely devastated in the flooding that followed Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans. 
   Mr. Speaker, we went into Charity Hospital. We went down to the basement where the records room typically is in a hospital. And here, Mr. Speaker, is the medical records department of Charity Hospital. Now, this isn't fire or smoke damage on these charts. It's black mold. You really can't send someone down there to retrieve medical data without putting the medical records transcriptionist at risk. 
   These records are essentially lost forever, if the ink hasn't washed off all the pages. Remember, this was all completely underwater, because this was in the basement. You remember how much water was standing in the streets of New Orleans. So completely underwater. We don't even know if these are readable. But who is going to get in there and risk disturbing all the black mold and getting the health consequences that would result from it? 
   So all of this medical data is lost. Who's to know? Maybe there is a kidney transplant there, some important data. Maybe someone being treated for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma here, and important clinical data lost. Maybe there was a child with a rare illness that,  again, no one would be able to retrieve those medical records. This is the reason why I have now become a believer in the electronic medical records system. 
   Furthermore, when a large number of persons who were evacuated from New Orleans and brought to the Metroplex in the north Texas area, north Texas physicians turned out in great numbers to receive people who had been in the domed stadium in New Orleans, the Superdome I guess it's called, as well as other individuals who were evacuated from the Convention Center, and they were brought in buses to downtown Dallas and doctors met them as they were coming off the bus. 
   One of the large pharmaceutical chains set up there with their computer system, and if that patient had gotten their prescription at that chain drug store, they were able to recreate not their entire medical record, but at least their prescription history, which a lot of times will give you a great deal of insight into what a patient's conditions are and what they are being treated for. 
   So the availability of that, albeit very limited pharmaceutical data, provided a great deal of service to the doctors who were on the ground receiving these individuals who had to be evacuated out of the city of New Orleans. Again, it really made a believer out of me that that data needs to be retrievable wherever you are, wherever you go. 
   Mr. Speaker, all too often we run into in medicine the fact that, yes, the patient went down somewhere and had a CT scan, and now they're seeing a different doctor and that CT is not available because it's only a written, typed report and it's locked up in some other office and they are now closed. So we either go on a hunch without the information, or you repeat the test and spend another $1,000. It is so critical to have that information where it is readily retrievable by any doctor involved in taking care of the patients. 
   Mr. Speaker, I have digressed just a little bit from the physician workforce issues, but I do think this is such an important issue, and that is why I included in H.R. 2585 bonus payments for doctors who are willing to begin to make that change into improved health information technology and perhaps consider electronic medical records, perhaps consider e-prescribing. 
   There is no question that our handwriting as physicians is generally abominable. I will tell you, Mr. Speaker, it doesn't improve with age. Medication errors that are because of poor handwriting or illegible handwriting on the prescription pad, we have all encountered it during our practices. 
   It is so critical to be able to have that information in a legible, reproducible form and have it available when a patient goes from city to city, as these individuals were because of a crisis in their hometown, where they had to leave and go to another town. But even just for someone on vacation who develops a problem, if you have the availability of accessing their medical records online or through some service, that is going to make a tremendous difference. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, one of the things we talked about, too, when I first began this discussion on the workforce issue is how do we help the physician who's through with medical school and pondering a residency, or in fact in a residency. Could we develop a program that would permit hospitals that do not now currently have a residency program to begin a training program where none has existed previously. 
   So the second bill, H.R. 2583, would create a loan fund available to hospitals to create a residency training program where none has operated in the past. These programs, of course, would require full accreditation by the appropriate agencies and would be focused in typically medically-underserved areas, rural, suburban, frontier community hospitals. 
   Mr. Speaker, on average it costs about $100,000 a year to train a resident. For a lot of small hospitals, that is a barrier to entry that they just cannot meet. 
   Two, the Balanced Budget Act passed by this Congress long before my service here, back in 1997, 10 years ago, placed the cap on residency slots Medicare would fund, making it very difficult for some programs to expand and hospitals to create residency programs. So, especially for smaller hospitals that are interested in creating a residency training program, federal regulations, federal regulations stop them cold, dead in their tracks, from creating that residency program. 
   Again, these are some of the things that were done in the Balanced Budget Act, but these regulations need to be streamlined. We need to have a second pathway for these hospitals to follow to establish a residency training program. It is a major financial investment for small hospitals to undertake, and frequently they just simply have to forego, because they can't afford it, even though their community might very well benefit from having such a training program. 
   Now, in the bill before the Congress, H.R. 2583, loan amounts would not exceed $1 million and the loan would constitute startup funding for new residency programs. The start-up money is critical here. Since Medicare graduate medical education funding can be obtained only once a residency program is firmly established, the cost to start a training program for a smaller, more rural or suburban hospital is cost prohibitive. The barrier to entry is just too high, because these hospitals operate on much narrower cost margins. 
   H.R. 2583 is a bill that has been introduced as part of the physician workforce package of bills. It will allow smaller hospitals to establish residency training programs. 
   As I said earlier, Mr. Speaker, doctors tend to have a lot of inertia. We don't fall far from the tree when it comes time to start up practice. We tend to go into practice within 100 miles of where we did our residency. That would be the reason to move the residency programs into the areas of States, into the areas of the communities where doctors are most needed. 
   Two, this program could be a recruiting tool for small communities to recruit essential professionals to consider a residency program in their town and then hopefully stay around once the training program is finished, because, after all, you know all the referring doctors, you know the personnel in the hospital, and that arduous task of setting up a practice becomes perhaps just a little less daunting because you are working with known entities. 
   The third point of assuring availability of an adequate future workforce is providing medical students or college students who are considering a career in health professions, to provide them with assistance and incentives to practice in shortage areas in shortage specialties. 
   The third bill, H.R. 2584, would establish a mix of scholarships, loan repayments and tax incentives to encourage more students into medical school and beyond. It also creates incentives for those students and newly-minted doctors to become family docs, general surgeons, geriatric doctors, OB-GYNs, and practice in shortage areas such as rural and frontier areas. 
   H.R. 2584, the High Need Physician Workforce Initiative Act of 2007, amends the Public Health Service Act to alleviate critical shortages of physicians in the fields of family practice, internal medicine, pediatrics, emergency medicine, general surgery and OB-GYN. H.R. 2584 would establish additional loan and scholarship programs and would assist underserved communities to build a pipeline for the medical professionals of tomorrow. 
   Mr. Speaker, I spoke already about the medical records situation in New Orleans. Also as an outgrowth of actually several trips I made to the New Orleans area in the fall of 2005 and the early part of 2006, you really began to see the attenuation of the physician workforce in that area and you really saw the arduous task of rebuilding the physician workforce in that area. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is almost as if a physician or his spouse, if they weren't from the area, they likely weren't staying. They had to have significant family ties to make them consider staying in the area. That is so unfortunate, Mr. Speaker. But not only do we have the unspeakable horror of the hurricane itself, but then we had the slow response in getting aid through State and Federal and local agencies to physicians in private practice and they were left to fend for themselves. They ended up spending their own savings to keep their practice open and they reached a point where they simply could not sustain that any longer. It will be hard to entice people back.  
   So the reality is the physician workforce of tomorrow, especially in an underserved area like the City of New Orleans, is going to require growing your own. And part of growing your own is this mix of scholarships, loan forgiveness and tax incentives to encourage physicians to go into the health professions, and as part of the loan payback, they agree to serve in a medically underserved area in a high-need specialty. This bill provides targeted incentives to develop medical students and encourages the growth of specialties that will be in high demand in underserved or emerging communities. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, those are the three bills, H.R. 2583, H.R. 2584 and H.R. 2585, that deal with the problems that I see as emerging with the physician workforce. Remember, we are in a transformational time. We are in a time that is just as transformational as 1940, 1965, or even some of the earlier transitional times that we didn't have time to talk about tonight. We are in a transitional time that is going to require us, require us as legislators, to be at the top of our game so we don't obstruct this process and, dare I say, we enhance this process, we further this transformation, we make the transformation proceed in an orderly fashion, in a fashion that is beneficial. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, I can hardly, hardly, talk about physician workforce issues and not address the number one issue that is so pernicious to physician practice and drives more doctors into early retirement, and that is the state of the medical justice system in this country.     
   Texas in 2003, September of 2003, a little over 4 years ago, passed what I considered a very reasonable bill to put some caps on noneconomic damages in medical liability cases. 
   Texas was in crisis. When I was running for Congress in 2002, we had really hit rock bottom as far as medical liability issues were concerned. We had gone from 17 medical liability insurance companies down to two. They were leaving the State in droves. If you only have two companies, it is difficult to have competition. Premiums were going through the roof. Every year I was seeing premium increases of 20, 25 or 30 percent. And the reality was that reimbursement rates were not keeping up and doctors couldn't keep up. 
   I remember when I was campaigning in 2002 at an event I ran into a young woman who was a radiologist. I say young woman, she had been through medical school and residency. She said, I hope you can get something done about the liability situation because as a radiologist, I lost my insurance because my company left the State and I can't get insurance with the two remaining companies. As a consequence, I cannot practice interventional radiology without liability insurance. I can't accept that kind of risk, taking care of high-risk patients without some type of liability coverage. 
   So the State of Texas paid to educate this woman. The woman went to a State-supported school, so taxpayers partially paid for her education because she went to a residency program at one of the State universities, and she was lost as a provider to the State of Texas because of the liability situation. 
   Texas, fortunately, stepped up to the plate and recognized they had a serious problem. Across the board in Texas, everyone was talking about the crisis in medical liability. So they passed a bill in 2003 that put a limit on noneconomic damages in medical liability suits. It was patterned after the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975 which affects the State of California and has done a good job in California as far as keeping doctors involved in practice and keeping medical liability rates low. 
   Well, in California, the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975 put a cap on noneconomic damages at $250,000. That was a tall order in Texas. They were not able to achieve the same level of cap on noneconomic damages, but they went about in a way so that a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages exists for the doctor, for the hospital or nursing home or a second hospital. So each provider named is going to be capped at $250,000, and a maximum of $750,000 that could be awarded to a plaintiff in noneconomic damages. Actual damages, punitive damages, are not affected by this law. So average compensation for patients is still going to be very, very high, but it removes a lot of the uncertainty that was present in the medical liability market. And as a consequence, it provides fair compensation for injured patients and their families. It has been a success in Texas. Liability premiums have dropped. Competition has invigorated the insurance market, and patients once again have access to the doctors they need. Remember, we dropped from 17 down to two insurers. The next year we were back up to 15, and I believe the number is substantially higher today. 
   The best news is they came back to the State without asking for an increase of premiums. Texas Medical Liability Trust, my old insurer, has provided a 22 percent reduction in premium expenses for physicians since 2003. Remember, we were going up by 20, 25, 30 percent a year every year prior to 2003, so this has been a dramatic turnaround in Texas. 
   Remember, I talked about Texas as being one of the States that is medically underserved. Remember that figure of 186 doctors per 100,000 population. But since this law took effect, things are on the upswing as far as physician workforce in Texas. Over 10,000 new physicians have been licensed, including a record 3,300 doctors licensed in fiscal year 2007. The Texas State Board of Medical Examiners can scarcely keep up with the demand. Several have asked what is taking the Texas State Board of Medical Examiners so long, and there is a lot of demand. When you have to ask how big are you winning, that is a good thing, and Texas is winning big with this legislation. 
   Doctors are moving back to areas that were underserved and critical specialties are moving back into the State. Doctors who practice a specialty called perinatal medicine where you take care of the most complicated pregnancies and the sickest babies, these doctors could not get insurance at any price in 2002. And I remember talking to a young doctor at a hospital who said, I am going to have to stop practicing. I have all of these loans to pay back, and I can't practice because I can't afford the liability premiums. 
   Our whole trauma network in north Texas was put at risk because 50 percent of the neurosurgeons, that is one out of two who were available, said he got his six-figure premium notice, and he said, That's it, I can't do this any more. With him leaving, leaving only one neurosurgeon in the trauma network, it put north Texas in a serious position for how they were going to be able to handle trauma cases in north Texas. 
   Since the passage of this law in Texas, that perinatologist has gone back into practice. He went to work for a computer firm, believe it or not, and now he is back in practice and probably saving babies today that wouldn't have been saved without his care and expertise. I am sure he did a good job taking care of computers, but babies are more important than computers. 
   New neurosurgeons are attracted to the north Texas area, preserving the trauma network we have in the north Texas area. It was very much put at risk by the crisis in medical liability. 
   One of the unexpected beneficiaries of this law in Texas has been the smaller, not-for-profit hospital that is self-insured. They were having to put so much money away to protect against future losses because the upper limit was unknown. Now they are able to take some of that capital and reinvest it in capital equipment, nurses' salaries and outreach and education, the very things you want your hospital to be doing. They are able to do those things because of sensible reform that happened in the State of Texas. 
   Claims and lawsuits have declined, and the current situation that exists in some States only drives up the cost of health care and forces doctors to treat every patient as a potential lawsuit. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Founding Fathers suggested that the States could function as laboratories for the rest of the country, and I think this is one of those instances where we have seen the function of the laboratory, that is Texas in medical liability, function in every way as we would want it to. In fact, when we were going through the budget process last March, I provided the ranking member, our ranking member of the Budget Committee, the legislative language that would be the  Texas law if it were written by legislative counsel here in the House of Representatives. 
   And they took the bill and did a back-of-the-envelope score and came up with a $3.8 billion savings over 5 years that would be available to the budgeteers had they chosen to accept that. In other words, do medical liability reform like we did in Texas across the country, and you are going to save some money. 
   It is not a huge amount of money. I know in Washington-speak $3.8 billion doesn't resonate like some other figures, but it is real money and it is available to us. All we have to do is enact some type of sensible medical liability reform across the country like we did in my home State of Texas. 
   So I took that language that ran through legislative counsel on the Texas liability law and actually introduced the Texas medical liability law. It is H.R. 3509, the Medical Justice Act of 2007. It is now available. Members may cosponsor it. I recognize in the current climate in the United States House of Representatives it is going to be very difficult to get any type of medical liability reform passed, but at the same time, this is important work and we shouldn't shy away from it. We should at least have the discussion and the debate. Let's clash in the marketplace of ideas here. Here is a system in Texas that is delivering real value to the patients of Texas and to the doctors of Texas. 
   Mr. Speaker, we can't rise to the transformational challenge that stretches before us without keeping the best doctors involved and recruiting and training the best and brightest doctors who are coming behind them, recruiting and training those doctors for tomorrow. This is going to require a near-term, a mid-term and a long-term strategy. Mr. Speaker, we have to work together, both sides of the aisle. This is not a partisan issue. This is going to face every single one of us in our district as we go through this next several years. And we are not going to be able to master the transformational challenge that extends ahead of us without America's best and brightest staying involved and providing care for patients in this country. The best and brightest men and women of medicine, we need to keep them on the front lines. I stress, this is a true bipartisan issue. There is not a single party label attached to this concept. 
   So let's sit down, both sides of the aisle, and work together to insure a healthy future for all Americans. The bottom line is we have to make certain that doctors are continuing to practice, they are satisfied with their compensation and satisfied with their ability to deliver services to the patients. 
   You hear the phrase in Washington, ``well, we will cross that bridge when we come to it''; in other words, we won't act until we absolutely have to act. 
   Mr. Speaker, this is a transformational time. I think this calls for a different type of thinking. We are going to have to build a bridge while we are crossing it, not wait until we get there. We are going to have to build that bridge ahead of time, and I think we can. 
   I visited a group of scientists at the National Institutes of Health and they talked about the challenge of working through the genetic sequence of the human genome and sequencing the base pairs in the human genome. And they started this project in the 1990s, a very labor-intensive project, and they didn't have the Internet. They didn't know that they needed the Internet. Fortunately, the Internet came along while they were in the process of cracking the genetic code. But if it hadn't been the Internet, they wouldn't have been able to share information with other scientists around the world on a real-time basis. And I don't know if by today we would have cracked the genetic code, so an example of building the bridge while you are crossing, and certainly those scientists at the National Institutes of Health really did take that to health. 
   Why wait any longer? Why should we keep doctors and patients waiting? Sensible legislation is before us now. Again, I repeat, I urge my colleagues to look at this, talk to me if you have questions about it. It is extremely important for those students who are looking to go into health care as a profession, those in medical school now, those doctors in residency, and again, what I would refer to as the mature physician. It is important to the whole continuum of the timeline of the physician workforce. 
   We don't want to end up in that day that Alan Greenspan looked into the future and saw a couple of years ago. We don't want to arrive at that day where there is no one there to take care of America's seniors because we didn't pay attention, we took our eye off the ball back here in the year 2007. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION -- (House of Representatives - October 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. If the gentleman will further yield, is there anything that has happened between the passage of that amendment and the initiation of the discharge petition that would cause people to change their minds? If it was worthwhile to vote for the amendment a few weeks ago, wouldn't it be similarly worthwhile to go ahead and sign that discharge petition so we can get on with working on this very important legislation? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION -- (House of Representatives - October 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. If the gentleman will further yield, I, for the life of me, cannot understand why someone who would have voted in favor of the amendment would not follow through now and sign the discharge petition. 
   Mr. Speaker, I will just have to admit I am baffled that my colleagues who have showed such resolution on this just a few weeks now be peeled off for whatever reason and not have this solid bipartisan legislation brought to the House floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
   It has been a fascinating discussion tonight. 
   Of course, as the gentleman from Michigan knows, I was in the hearing as well on June 23rd. It was a long hearing, but it was a good hearing, and we heard from a number of witnesses. 
   When you listened to the discussion of the witnesses, especially on the concept of the non physical hedger, I think one of the most striking things to me was that there was a component, just the sheer volume of dollars, that was going into that, and that clearly had an effect, so there may be a very immediate return that can be had. There was a disagreement as to how quickly that could come about, but the pressure could be put on the price of oil to come down.  
   What was not lost on me, though, was the concept that these very tight supply and demand markets are around the world, and I think, man, those first four witnesses that presented to us that day said that by the year 2015, world demand would vastly outstrip supply. The message I took from that is we'd best be looking at the next level of supply because we had about a 7-year window in which to achieve that, so you had to be sure that some of these other methods that we've heard today would be several years down the road before we would actually get the supply from those areas, but we need to start today to be able to get that supply. 
   The other thing that was just absolutely amazing was the number of dollars going into those markets and where the actual rate of rise really began to increase. It was in about December of 2006 or in January of 2007. 
   I think my time has expired. I yield back to the gentleman from Pennsylvania. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (<em>HONORING DR. MICHAEL DeBAKEY </em> -- (House of Representatives - July 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight to honor Dr. Michael DeBakey, the father of modern cardiovascular surgery, and for me a personal hero. Dr. DeBakey passed away Friday night in Houston at the age of 99. Michael DeBakey, a giant among men and a giant in medicine. His death is a tremendous loss to the fields of medicine, science, and technology. It is a great loss for humanity at-large. 
   Mr. Speaker, there are certain privileges that come with being a servant here in the people's House. For me, one of those privileges was meeting Dr. DeBakey. After working months to secure the Congressional Gold Medal for the great doctor, I had the chance to sit down with him here in Washington in April right after it was awarded to him. For 30 minutes, we were able to discuss his personal and professional experiences over his 60 years in medicine. It was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for which I am eternally grateful. 
   He talked about how Congress had been responsible for the advancement of medical science in this country, how Congress had led the way with funding for the National Institutes of Health. He talked about his experiences going over and treating Boris Yeltsin in the Soviet Union when he was suffering from heart disease, and Dr. DeBakey found just on the basis purely on physical examine that the individual was quite anemic as well, which rendered his outlook for cardiovascular surgery much worse. They treated the anemia, and the rest, as they say, is history. 
   As a fellow physician, Dr. DeBakey's work on medical advancements is legendary. His dedication to healing those around him came not only from his talents as a physician, but his ongoing commitment to the larger medical community. 
   His motto, as we heard others mention today, was always ``strive for nothing less than excellence.'' 
   I would be remiss if I did not mention the education and the entrepreneurial spirit that made him worthy of one of the Nation's highest honors, the Congressional Gold Medal. Let me share some of his accomplishments. 
   While in medical school, Dr. DeBakey developed the roller pump which later became the major component in the heart-lung machine that is used in open heart surgery routinely today. It was truly a visionary change. 
   His service and subsequent work in the Surgeon General's office during World War II led to the development of the Mobile Army Surgical Hospital, the so-called MASH unit. Without Dr. DeBakey, we wouldn't have those forward surgical teams that go into combat areas and provide vital care to our soldiers in that golden hour after injury. 
   This medical trailblazer also helped establish the specialized medical and surgical center system for treating military personnel returning home from war which we know as the Veterans Administration Medical Center. 
   But it was at the Methodist Hospital in Houston where Dr. DeBakey performed many of his groundbreaking surgeries, including the first removal of a carotid artery blockage. He also performed the first coronary artery bypass graft, and some of the first heart transplants in this country as well. 
   He served as adviser to every President of the United States for the last 50 years. Think of that, every President for the last 50 years depended on Dr. Michael DeBakey for medical advice. Additionally, he has given advice to heads of state throughout the world. 
   During his professional surgical career, he performed more than 60,000 cardiovascular procedures, and trained thousands of surgeons who practice around the world today. Today, his name is affixed to any number of organizations, centers of learning, and projects devoted to medical education and health education for the general public. This includes the National Library of Medicine, which is now the world's largest and most prestigious repository of medical archives. The collections there house resources that actually I look at several times a week as I prepare for committee hearings. 
   Dr. DeBakey's contributions to medicine, his breakthrough surgeries, and his innovative devices have completely transformed our view of the human body and our view of longevity on this planet. The United States, and indeed the world, were fortunate to have this medical pioneer for as long as we did. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is with great sorrow that I come to the floor tonight, but it is also with great honor that I once again share Dr. DeBakey with this august body. Time Magazine honored him as the Man of the Year several years ago. Indeed he was, a man for the ages and the Man of the Year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL CYSTIC FIBROSIS AWARENESS MONTH -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume, and I rise in support of House Concurrent Resolution 299 that supports the goals and ideals of Cystic Fibrosis Awareness Month. 
   I thank the sponsor of the resolution, Ed Markey of Massachusetts, and cosponsor, Cliff Stearns of Florida, for their diligent work on this issue. And I would like to thank my colleague on the Energy and Commerce Committee, the gentlelady from California, for presenting the bill before us today. 
   H. Con. Res. 299 raises public awareness by observing Cystic Fibrosis Awareness Month and recognizing the 30,000 people in the United States that have this hereditary disease. Cystic fibrosis affects the lungs, it affects virtually every system in the body, and certainly complications can arise such as life-threatening lung infections, and gastrointestinal complications that lead to malabsorption. Of the 30,000 Americans affected by this inherited and chronic condition, more than half are children. 
   Mr. Speaker, significantly, in the 1950s, very few children with cystic fibrosis lived to attend elementary school. Today, advances in research and medical treatments have further enhanced and extended the life of children, and now even adults with cystic fibrosis. In 2006, the predicted median age of survival had risen to 37 years, and many people with the condition can now expect to live into their 40s and beyond, a significant achievement. 
   When I began my medical studies back in the mid-1970s, cystic fibrosis was, indeed, a disease of childhood. And now we have many more people living well into young adulthood with the condition. And the expectation is with further advances in research, this age will greatly increase in the next several years. 
   It is important that we recognize Cystic Fibrosis Awareness Month and educate the public about the symptoms of the disease, increase the knowledge and understanding of the condition, and promote early detection for the new cases that are diagnosed each year. And the bill makes reference to 3,500 children that are born each year with cystic fibrosis. 
   I thank the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation for their efforts and continued funding of research and potential therapies. One of the intriguing things about treatments on the horizon, certainly we are all aware of changes that are going on in genome research and the fact that there may be new therapies that none of us dreamed of a few years ago. Compacted nanoparticles of aerosolized DNA taken as a nasal inhalant have made some dramatic changes in this disease, and certainly we look forward to many more advances on these fronts. 
   Certainly the hard work of the foundation has improved the life of the 70,000 people worldwide suffering from cystic fibrosis. And hopefully one day they will lead the way in finding a cure. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this worthwhile resolution. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL CYSTIC FIBROSIS AWARENESS MONTH -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I have additional speakers on the way, and while awaiting their arrival, let me just also mention that this bill, coming as it did through our Committee on Energy and Commerce, for major pieces of health care legislation, that is the correct approach, for it to come through the committee process, committee hearings and subcommittee and committee markups. 
   Later on today we will have an opportunity to vote on a Presidential veto of the Medicare bill that we passed on this House floor a few weeks ago.     
   That bill was an example of not following regular procedure, and that is what has made this issue that has embraced the correction of the physician reimbursement cuts--embraced by both sides of the aisle, but it has made it very contentious for this body. It was all unnecessary. Not a person in this body really opposed correcting the physician cuts. 
   Really the only issue was the approach. We could have had an opportunity to have a bill marked up in our subcommittee or in our full committee. I would have welcomed the opportunity to propose amendments, to perhaps perfect that legislation that would have rendered the whole process of this very contentious standoff we have now with the White House, would have rendered that absolutely unnecessary. 
   There are good ideas up there on both sides of the aisle. I would again use this opportunity to express how important it is that this House follow regular procedure, particularly on these major health care bills. This bill that the President will veto today, that we will have an opportunity to vote on the override, this will affect the delivery of health care for the next 30 or 40 years in ways that many of us have no ability to comprehend right now. 
   It's unfortunate, because we had the opportunity to do the markups in subcommittee and full committee, and, for whatever reason, the decision was made to bring it up on suspension, push it to the last minute, so there really was no opportunity to say, well, let's take it back and go through committee, because we were up against a hard deadline. 
   Everybody knew that last December. We had passed a 6-month extension. It was one of the most insulting things we could have done to the medical profession in this country was give them a 6-month reprieve on the rollback of the Medicare reimbursement rates. 
   Instead, we gave them a 6-month reprieve, and we pushed it up to the very last minute, so there was no other option. It's an up or down vote. Take it or leave it. You have got this bill. It has got a lot of other things appended to it. 
   We heard no discussion about the unfunded mandates for e-prescribing that were tagged onto this bill. I doubt many of the regular physicians out there in practice today really understand what we have passed for them, what we have layered on to their overhead that grows by leaps and bounds every year. It's the additional regulations that have been placed on physician practices. 
   This is an example today of doing things the right way. Later on this afternoon we will have an example of doing things the wrong way. I would urge the leadership of this House to pay attention to this. 
   We have good individuals on both sides of the aisle that have are serving in our committees of jurisdiction. Let's not circumvent that committee process and bring things up on the suspension calendar that really are substantial changes in Federal policy that really should go through regular order. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL CYSTIC FIBROSIS AWARENESS MONTH -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, well, again, we do have other speakers who are reportedly on the way. 
   Let me just add another couple of comments, because I have heard some discussion that we will have another opportunity to vote on SCHIP legislation before this House comes to a conclusion. 
   This, again, would be a mistake to bring it up through the suspension process. We have until March of 2009 to reauthorize the SCHIP, the State Children's Health Insurance Program. 
   I would urge this House to take up the work of that now. Let's begin in our committee this year. We actually don't have to do the bill until next year. We can do a lot of the groundwork this year, and that would be the correct way to approach that. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - December 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, why don't we just continue on talking about health care over the next hour. It's a relevant subject, and many of us are concerned about health care in this country. Many of our constituents are concerned about health care. 
   Mr. Speaker, I was a physician in my former life before coming to Congress almost 5 years ago. Perhaps it's time that we approach this as maybe a checkup on American health care. And like any good physician, as when I approached someone with a medical condition, maybe make a little problem list and try to run through that and see if we can't break things down and come to some problems that are more manageable or come to some solutions that may, in fact, be possible. 
   The first problem that I want to talk about are problems that affect really the law of supply and demand, the problems that affect the physician workforce in this country. The second problem that I would like to focus on is the one we hear a lot about on the floor of this House, the problem with people who lack coverage for their medical expenses, the people who lack health insurance. The number varies depending upon the source that you check, but by anyone's estimation, the number is too large, and Congress does have an obligation to try to ameliorate that if it can. And then the final problem is how much more government involvement do we want in our health care. And that government involvement, by its involvement, will that lead to the type  of solutions that we'd like to see in America? 
   So starting with problem number one, it, again, addresses some of the physician workforce issues that we face in this country. And, again, it's one of those fundamental supply and demand questions, and if we don't have the correct supply of physicians, it is going to affect the overall cost, price and quality of the health care that we receive. 
   Probably now almost 2 years ago, right before he left as the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Alan Greenspan came and talked to a group of us one morning, and the inevitable question comes up about Medicare: Mr. Chairman, how do you see us as ever being able to fund the obligations that Congress has taken on in the Medicare system with the baby boomers now retiring, and starting January 1, 78 million of us will be coming through over the next 40 years? 
   And the Chairman thought about it for a moment, and he said, It's going to be difficult, but I think when the time comes, Congress will make the correct decisions and the Medicare system will be preserved and it will endure. 
   Then he stopped for a moment, a thoughtful pause, as the Chairman always has wont to do, and he said, What concerns me more is will there be anyone there to deliver the services when you require them? 
   And that was a very insightful comment and one that has stayed with me over the past 2 years. 
   Now, my State medical association, the Texas Medical Association, every month they put out a periodical or journal that talks about some of the issues affecting medicine in the State. And this is the cover from the March issue of 2007, and the title of the article is ``Running Out of Doctors.'' The Texas Medical Association is concerned about the number of physicians that are in the State that are being educated in the State and that are staying in the State to enter their practice lives. And it is, indeed, a problem for the State of Texas, but it's a greater problem. It's a ubiquitous problem across the country. 
   Now, some of the things that we do here actually have a direct and consequential bearing on the number of physicians. And here we are bearing down very quickly on the very last of this year. We passed a bill today called a continuing resolution, and that continuing resolution was passed because tomorrow all of the funding for all of the Federal agencies and all the Federal programs, with the exception of the Department of Defense, all of that funding was going to expire because we have not passed 10 of our 11 appropriations bills. So today we passed, really, a deceptively short bill that actually funds the government for those 10 appropriations bills for another week. So perhaps not a great lift, but when you consider that this Congress spends about $3 trillion a year, you can imagine what 1 week's pay amounts to. 
   As we did that, there, of course, is an acknowledgement that we may indeed have to pass another continuing resolution on into next week if we can't indeed pass our spending bills. And that continuing resolution, because of the fact that Congress is going to wind down one way or the other toward the end of next week and then not be in for the remainder of the year, we are indeed going to have to ensure that the funding for those Federal programs continues. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, there's one aspect of that continuation that you really can't punt, you really can't just push it down the road and put it in the ``too hard'' box and we'll deal with that in January or February, and that one aspect is how Medicare compensates the physicians that see our Medicare patients. They are physicians that we've asked to see our Medicare patients. We require them in some instances to see our Medicare patients. And the fact is that Congress for the last several years has had a program in place that actually reduces year over year what we return to physicians in terms of payment for delivering those services. 
   Stop and think about it. A physician's office is a small business. Most people don't think of it that way, but it is a service industry business. It is a small business. And any other business that faced year-over-year cuts in projected revenue or cuts in what the reimbursement rates were going to be would have a difficult time surviving, because guess what? The energy costs for a physician's office are no different than the energy costs for the hospitals or for the bank across the street. They've gone up every year just as they have for our homes and our businesses across our communities. 
   What about the cost of paying the people who work there in the physician's office? That has gone up year over year. What about the cost of insuring those employees that work in the physician's office? Well, that has gone up year over year. But it's kind of ironic that the same time the cost of providing health insurance for the employees in that physician's office goes up every year, the actual return on investment goes down. The reimbursement rate from those insurance companies goes down. And one of the reasons for that is, again, how we compensate physicians in the Medicare system. 
   There is a very technically complicated formula that calculates physician reimbursement rates, and last night I went through that in some detail. I have heard from some of my colleagues that perhaps that's a little too complex and maybe something that doesn't project well on television and doesn't project well here on the floor of the House, but let me give you just a flavor of what's involved with our calculating the reimbursement rates for America's physicians who choose to participate in the Medicare system because we have asked them to who take care of, arguably, some of our most complex and some of our most fragile patients.     
   And the reason this is so important, if we don't do something before midnight, December 31 of this year, there is a 10.1 percent payment reduction to America's physicians who participate in the Medicare system. Not a really great way to go about rewarding them for doing the work that we've asked them to do. 
   And the truth is, every year there has been a projected reduction in reimbursement rates for America's physicians who participate in the Medicare system. Every year for the 5 years that I have been here, Congress has come riding in at the last minute and stopped those reductions in reimbursement rates. But the fact is, Congress has to act before December 31 or those rates that were posted by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services November 1, which this year is a 10.1 percent across-the-board reduction in physician reimbursement rates, if Congress does not do something affirmatively before midnight December 31, those cuts go into effect, and physicians wake up on January 31 earning 10 percent less for doing the same amount of work that they did the week before. Again, no other business would be asked to absorb this type of activity. 
   You can just imagine how tough it is to plan for the future. Here you think about a physician's office and they've got the rent, they've got the employee cost, they've got, or course, liability insurance, and various and other sundry things, one of the toughest things for a small physicians' office, and I would talk to you in terms of a group of between two and five individuals, which compromises a vast number of the physicians' offices in the country, one of the biggest expenses they have is the cost of capital when they want to do what? Expand. 
   And what does expansion mean? Hire another doctor to come in and help them do the workload because, again, 78 million people are entering the retirement age where they will be eligible for Medicare, and that starts January 1 of this year. What a coincidence. How ironic. January 1 of this year we start into the baby boom surge, and at the same time, oh, by the way, Doctor, we're going to be reducing your reimbursement rates by 10 percent. 
   That cost of capital to bring in a new physician is one of the biggest hurdles that a small physicians' office has to overcome. Granted, there may be large pieces of equipment that are purchased from time to time, and those also incur a cost of capital, but planning for the future, planning your own future workforce within your office is one of those things that keeps managing partners up at night in those types of practices. And it becomes even more complex and certainly more difficult to predict the future on what future earnings and what future requirements are going to  be when every year Congress comes in and says, oh, by the way, at the end of the year we are going to be enacting a physician reimbursement reduction which will significantly affect your ability to pay your bills and perhaps have something at the end of the month to take home to your family. 
   Well, what is the formula? And let me just back up for a moment. Let's talk about the Medicare system in the broad perspective for just a moment. Because the Medicare system, every time you hear somebody talk about Medicare, they say it's an integrated system that works seamlessly and flawlessly. But the reality is that Medicare, in many ways, is stove-piped or siloed. You have part A, part B, part C and part D, which was just enacted a few years ago. Part A pays the hospitalization expense. Part B pays the physician expense. Part C is the Medicare HMO. And part D is the prescription drug benefit that was enacted back in 2003. 
   If you look at the other funding silos, A, C and D, each year those undergo sort of a cost-of-living adjustment for hospitals that's called a ``market basket update.'' So the cost of inputs is calculated by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services. They probably have a complicated formula for that, or at least I would imagine that they do. They calculate what the cost of inputs is and they come back to the hospital and say, well, next year we're going to pay you this much more than we paid you last year. The same is true for the Medicare HMOs; the same is true for the Medicare prescription drug account. 
   Physicians, part B, is constructed entirely differently. And I have to confess, I don't quite understand why it's constructed differently; but when Medicare was first enacted over 40 years ago, this seemed to be a sound way to approach the problem. Part A, hospitalization, funded out of a payroll deduction, just the same as Social Security tax every month. There is that 1.5 percent Medicare charge, your employer kicks in a similar amount, so about 3 percent of your gross pay is deducted to cover Medicare expenses for the future. 
   Part B is funded from two sources, one is general revenue, and the other source is premiums that are paid by people who are Medicare recipients. By law, the Medicare recipient's premiums must account for 25 percent of the total expenditures in part B; the remaining 75 percent is made up in the general revenue. 
   Part C and part D, again, have different funding streams. Part D, when we created the prescription drug a few years ago, has dedicated funding to that. You may recall there was some argument about what the total cost of that would be. Thankfully, it has come in under cost, and that's been a great boom and a great savings; but nevertheless, there is a dedicated stream of money for the Medicare prescription drugs. Part C, the Medicare HMOs, also has some dedicated funding, plus some cost-of-living adjustments that occur there as well. 
   So physicians are clearly in sort of a class by themselves when it comes to Medicare reimbursement. So, how does the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, how does it calculate what the payment rate for physicians is going to be? It's calculated under a formula called the sustainable growth rate formula, referred to as the SGR. And you will probably hear people talk about the SGR a lot next week because, again, if we don't do something about the SGR, it is going to automatically proceed with a 10.1 percent reimbursement reduction for the Nation's physicians who choose to see Medicare patients. 
   Now, for the people who are very astute, there is a typographical error on this page, and I cannot take ownership of the typographical error; this was actually a pdf file simply taken from a CRS report to Congress about physicians' payment. But here's how we calculate physicians' payments: the relative value unit of work times essentially what is a geographic factor, or fudge factor for the geographic location of the practice, a relative value unit for the practice expenses, and then, again, the geographic adjustment for practice expenses in that area factors in things like the cost of labor force and what have you in different areas of the country. 
   And then a relative value cost for providing liability insurance. And as you might imagine, there is also some geographic discrepancies there across the country, so that is factored in, times CF, which actually down here is written as CV, but that's the conversion factor. And we'll get to the conversion factor in just a moment. 
   But I think you can see a pretty complex formula. And perhaps that's why I was criticized for going through that last night. And I will abbreviate the discussion of the formula, but I just want to give you a sense of how complex this is and why, certainly, the average person doesn't understand it, the average physician doesn't understand it, and I will submit to you that most average Members of Congress don't understand how this formula is calculated either. 
   Here is a calculation again of the update adjustment factor, perhaps a little bit different way of looking at some of the same sort of data. But the thing that I want to point out on this, because it is extremely important to understand this, the update adjustment factor here is equal to the prior year adjustment component, what we did last year, plus a cumulative adjustment component. Why is that important? Well, every year that we sweep in at the last minute and we say we're going to fix this reduction in reimbursement for physicians and we're going to make that go away, or maybe even provide a little bit of a positive update, every year that we do that, because of the cumulative nature of this formula, we make the overall expense of eventually repealing the formula, we make that expense increase. And every year the amount of increase actually grows, it snowballs, if you will. 
   To give you an example, when I first came to Congress in 2003, the year before, in my practice, we had sustained a 5.4 percent reduction in Medicare reimbursement rates. A great hue and cry from across the country and Congress recognized that and said, we're going to do something this year to prevent that from happening. And that something did, indeed, occur in an omnibus bill right as I got to Congress in January of that year. 
   The cost of repealing the sustainable growth rate formula at that time was calculated by the Congressional Budget Office to be $118 billion, give or take a billion here or there; $118 billion, a significant amount of money, but that actually is a 10-year figure. So it's about 11 to $12 billion a year that we would have to come up with in Congress to offset the cost of repealing that formula. Big sum of money to be sure. 
   But every year now, over the last 5 years, we've done something at the last minute, and that something has increased the cost of the ultimate repeal of the sustainable growth rate formula, such that now it is calculated by the Congressional Budget Office this year as being $268 billion over 10 years' time. If, indeed, we get our work done and prevent that cut from going into place at the end of this month, the cost, again, that cumulative adjustment factor will come into play, and that cost will be bigger in 2008 than it was in 2007. And it will be bigger by a larger amount than it was in 2007, depending upon the amount of rescue that Congress chooses to bring to the table. 
   And then again, I just can't help myself, one last slide, talking about the complicated nature of this. And again, I show you this not to invoke sympathy from someone who has spent some time studying this, but I show you this because I want to give you a sense of how complicated the problem is. Again, I will submit to you that many Members of Congress just simply do not, cannot, will not understand this. And as a consequence, it kind of gets put in that ``too hard box'' over here and we'll think about that later. That's why there is always the temptation to try to kick it down the road. 
   The fact is, we have to do something by December 31. If we don't, that 10.1 percent reduction comes into play. You might say, well, okay, that's for Medicare patients, but doctors see more than just Medicare patients in their office, so they will be able to deal with that in some way, won't they? Just raise the rates on someone else. Here's the deal: almost all of the major insurance companies in this country peg their reimbursement to what Medicare reimburses. So the contracts may be a  little more generous than Medicare, they may reimburse at 110 percent of Medicare, 115 percent of Medicare, 120 percent of Medicare; but they peg to what the Medicare reimbursement rate is. So if we come in with a 10.1 percent reduction in physician services reimburses, guess what happens to private insurance at the same time? That same reduction goes into play. 
   So I called my old medical practice yesterday and I just asked them, what do you think about this? And of course they were more or less unaware that this was happening, and that's really not unusual. Most physicians' offices don't pay a lot of attention to what we're doing up here in Congress because they're busy, they're taking care of sick people. And that's what we want them to do. We don't want them necessarily watching every move we make here in Congress. 
   But when I related that, no, we actually need to do something or there will be a 10 percent reduction at the end of this year, then I got their attention and then they were very interested. And I said, well, give me an idea of what this will do to your commercial insurance. And very quickly the response came that almost all of our contracts that we have with commercial insurance actually pegged to Medicare. So it will have more than just a ripple effect. It will be almost like a tidal wave effect through the rest of the reimbursement rates for the other plans and insurance companies that this office, for which they receive reimbursement for taking care of those patients. 
   Now, what happens if we don't do it by January 1? The cuts go into effect. But maybe we go ahead and do it and take care of it in January or February, we kick the can down the road a little bit and then we come back later and do it. Actually, this happened in 2005. We had the fix in a big bill that was being passed that year. It was called the Deficit Reduction Act. And we kind of ran out the clock at the end of the year and on a technicality the bill had to come back to Congress, but we weren't in session anymore, so it had to wait until January. And the effect was that those cuts did go into effect January 1 of that year. And I know that because my fax went crazy. There was no one in the office that day to answer the phone, but the fax machine went crazy from physicians across the country sending me notices, Congressman, I want you to see the letter I sent out to my patients this week. I will no longer be able to provide Medicare services because of the cumulative effect of these reductions on my practice. It had a very immediate and detrimental effect on practicing physicians across the country. 
   The same would be true this year. In fact, it would be worse because that year the reduction was 5 percent; this year it is 10 percent. And I would just imagine that it would at least double, if not more, the anxiety that's felt within our physician community across the country. 
   Moreover, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services said, we will come back and make whole those practices that continue to see Medicare patients without interruption, and we will go back and reimburse them the difference when Congress finally passes a law. And that's all well and good, but there's very little way to control if those private companies come back and make the adjustments retroactively the same as Medicare did. 
   Again, very, very difficult to know that because we're talking about very small amounts of money. It's very difficult for a practice to actually track that through the overall cycle of a patient's care, but the result is, cumulatively across the country, the numbers could have been quite, quite large. 
   And it was never the intent of Congress to provide a benefit for commercial insurance by reducing the Medicare rate. It's just an unfortunate consequence of having what are essentially Federal price controls on Federal reimbursement rates.     
   Well, again, I promised not to spend too much time on the formula, but I think it is important. I think it is important for Members to understand. I have had several bills over the years trying to deal with this. One thing that I have introduced just this week is a resolution in the House of Representatives. And I will admit this resolution does not have the force of law. It actually doesn't spend any money. It almost is like sending a get well card to the doctors who take care of our Medicare patients. But the resolution is multiple whereases detailing the problems that I have just been through followed by a single, Resolved: That it is the sense of the United States House of Representatives to immediately address this issue and halt any scheduled cuts to Medicare physician payments and immediately begin working on a long-term solution and implement it within 2 years that pays physicians in a fair and stable way, that ensures Medicare patients have access to the doctor of their choice. 
   Mr. Speaker, I know I have to confine my remarks and I only speak to the Chair, and I will do that, but if I could speak to my colleagues, the Members on both sides of the aisle, I would ask them to take a very serious look at House Resolution 863. Again, it spends no money. It does not have the force of law. But I think if a significant number of Members were to participate in signing on to this particular resolution, it would be a powerful message to send to House leadership on both sides of the aisle that we want this problem fixed before we go home at the end of the year. This is one of those things on our to-do list that we must address, that we must take care of. 
   Now, one of the other things that I do want to spend just a minute talking about, and in some of the physician workforce bills that I have introduced in Congress, I have provided some additional help for doctors who will voluntarily participate in improvements in their office's investment in health information technology. In fact, the last bill that I introduced dealing with the sustainable growth rate problem had it in two components for a voluntary positive update for physicians who, again, participate on a voluntary basis in upgrades in health information technology and for physicians who voluntarily participate in quality reporting measures. 
   Let me just tell you something. Mr. Speaker, it is just human nature, anyone who works for a living always likes to be kind of pulled into the process and asked to help work on a problem. Most people don't like to be told what to do. Most people inherently reject orders that come from the top down. A lot of times, it is better to build things from the bottom up. Now, I have to tell you, when I was a practicing physician, I wasn't a big advocate of electronic medical records. I dabbled in it a little bit. I had a run or two with electronic prescribing. These things were complicated. They were expensive. They added time to my day that wasn't reimbursed. But the reality is I have come to accept the concept more since I have been in Congress. 
   Let me just share with you what one of my revelations was. Many of us who serve in this body will never forget the week that Hurricane Katrina roared into the gulf coast and struck the gulf coast areas of Mississippi, Louisiana and Alabama. It was the result of the effects of that hurricane and the subsequent flooding in the City of New Orleans and subsequent trips to that area, once just as an individual to see if I could be helpful, and once as part of a field hearing with my Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations as part of the Energy and Commerce Committee. 
   This is a picture that was taken on that second trip, January of 2006. So we are now 5 months after the hurricane hit, 5 months after the dewatering of the City of New Orleans, if ``dewatering'' is actually a verb. Here is a picture of the basement of Charity Hospital. Charity Hospital, one of the venerable old institutions in our country that has been long associated with teaching doctors, teaching new doctors, here is the records room at Charity Hospital. You can't really see it from this picture, but there is still water on the floor, water about up to the level of the top of our shoes. Do you see these records? And there is just oceans and oceans of records. This is one stack. There are stacks that go on, 50 behind and 50 in front. There are a lot of records in the basement of Charity Hospital because they take care of a lot of patients, and they have for a lot of years. 
   Look at these records. It almost looks like they have some smoke or soot damage on them, but, in fact, that is black mold that is growing on them  on the manila folders and growing on the paper in the charts, and as a consequence, you could not possibly send anyone in here to retrieve a chart. It would be too hazardous. In all likelihood, the ink is washed off the paper anyway during the couple of weeks that these things were submerged. 
   These records are, for all intents and purposes, lost to the ages. There is no way of knowing what is included in those medical records. There may have been a treatment for leukemia here. There may have been a kidney transplant down here. We don't know. This may have been someone on a waiting list for a transplant. No way of knowing. Those records are lost forever. 
   Here is the deal. Those individuals who were brought to the Dallas-Fort Worth area who were displaced after Hurricane Katrina and arrived at Reunion Arena in sort of a little triage area set up by doctors from the Dallas County Medical Society, there was a small trailer outside, and one of the chain drugstores said, Well, for those people who had prescriptions at our drugstore, we can at least help you reconstruct what medicines they were on. It was enormously helpful to have that information so those patients who had their prescriptions at that particular pharmacy, they could go online into their master list and at least reconstruct the medication list. And a lot of times, if you have the medication list, you have a pretty good idea of the problems that were under treatment. Certainly, you would have a better idea than if you were waiting for the City of New Orleans to be evacuated of water and then get down to the basement of Charity Hospital, run the health risk of pulling out one of these records and breathing in the spores of the black mold. 
   So I have become a believer. You have to have some way of, especially in times of great national upheaval, you have to have some way of getting that data that has been accumulated on patients over the years. You have to have ways of getting it into the hands of the caregivers. I don't know that we have the perfect system yet. I don't know if the Federal Government is capable of developing the perfect system, or perhaps that may be something that comes to us from private industry, but I do know this. The time for electronic medical records is nigh at hand, and as difficult as it is for doctors my age who did not grow up with this technology, it is time that we are going to have to come into the 21st century and acknowledge this type of technology is a benefit and delivers value to the interaction that occurs between the doctor and the patient. 
   But how much better is it to bring those physicians along who are in practice and allow them to participate in the solution, allow them to participate in the construction of these platforms? Contrast that with the typical congressional activity, which would be a top-down approach. In fact, just last week we had the unveiling 
   of an e-prescribing bill with a lot of fanfare over on the Senate side. And it was vaunted as a ``carrot and a stick'' approach, that, Doctor, we will give you a little something if you participate, but we are going to have a little something to say to you if you don't participate. So the carrot was we are going to increase your reimbursement rate by 1 percent if you participate in an e-prescribing program. And what is the stick? A 10 percent reduction if you are not participating in an e-prescribing program in 5 years' time. So that was seen as a way to rapidly get physicians' attention. Yes, we will offer them perhaps a little bit up front and we will have a significant penalty if they don't participate. 
   Well, what does it really mean when you say we will offer a 1 percent increase? Well, I will just tell you that for those Medicare patients that I saw as an office patient, the office reimbursement visit typically wasn't as generous as $50, but for the sake of argument, to make the math easy, let's say it was a $50 reimbursement for a moderately complex Medicare patient return visit, which would be the bulk of the patient load that a physician would see during the day. And the average physician can probably see four of those moderately complex return visit appointments in an hour's time, sometimes a little bit more, sometimes a little bit less if those visits turn out to be more and more complex. That 1 percent increase that the doctor will receive amounts to about a $2 an hour, 50 cents per patient, four patients an hour. So that is a $2 an hour increase that we are willing to provide the physician who is willing to participate. 
   Now, what happens if in 4 or 5 years' time they are not participating, they are not partaking? I have to tell you, you look at the cost of installing an e-prescribing program in your office, putting a handheld device of some kind in the hands of perhaps every doctor and perhaps every nurse that is working in that office. This program that was unveiled last week would allow a $2,000 credit or grant to the physician to buy the equipment, but the reality is the equipment costs many times that. But we are going to give an extra $2 an hour to that doctor for participating in this program. But if they don't do it within 4 or 5 years, the stick is going to be a 10 percent reduction, which doing the same math, you are going to come up with about a $20 an hour reduction in reimbursement. 
   Now, wait a minute, this is the same doctor you said we were going to cut 10 percent at the end of this year, and at the end of next year and the year after that. How many doctors do we expect to see, going back to my first slide, ``Running Out of Doctors,'' how many doctors do we expect are going to be participating in the Medicare system if we keep treating them like that? Well, they would be foolish to stay. You would have to wonder about their mental stability if they did indeed stay. 
   So we need to have a better approach. It was talked about as a ``carrot and stick'' approach. To me, it almost seemed like spinach and a whooping. You know, it is not going to be that attractive on the front end, but it sure is going to be bad on the back end. So I can't see that physicians will rush out and embrace this. And I really would caution the Members of Congress who are working on this end-of-the-year Medicare fix, whatever it is, to really be careful, to really be cautious about including this type of language in whatever type of Medicare fix that we come up with at the end of the year. 
   Is the theory good? Yes, it is. E-prescribing is something that certainly younger physicians in medical school and residency, they are going to be exposed to on an ongoing basis. And they are going to look for practices that have this to offer, or they are going to come to work in practices where it is not offered and wonder why it is not there and ask their older partners to please provide them an e-prescribing platform because it is the right thing to do. It reduces errors. It reduces some of the complications of prescriptions that are filled poorly, of doctors' handwriting can't be read, the pharmacist has to call the doctor back and say, did you mean Zanax or Zantac? And these types of problems can be avoided with e-prescribing. 
   It is not a panacea. There will be different types of errors that come to light as more and more people use e-prescribing, but it clearly is the way of the future. But do it correctly. Remember, there is not a single dollar that is spent in the health care system unless it is ordered by a physician. So our physicians are the gateway through which all of the medical reimbursement, all the medical pricing, all the medical cost flows through the physicians. So let's make sure that they are on our side with this. Let's not alienate them the first shot out of the box as we go forward with these types of programs. 
   Let me just give you an example, too. And I talked a little bit about I am not sure if the Federal Government is exactly the correct entity to have involved with creating this new electronic environment that we want medical practices, in which we want them to exist. Perhaps it would be, perhaps there will be improvements from the private sector that we ought to investigate. Perhaps we need to remove some of the regulatory burden. I won't go into great detail, but they are called the Star clause. Maybe we ought to remove some of the regulatory burden. Maybe we need to have some medical justice, some medical liability reform so companies aren't afraid of this. But the fact of the matter remains, I am not sure the Federal Government is the correct avenue to proceed with this. 
   When I came here 5 years ago, I was told that the Federal Government controls 50 cents of every dollar that is spent in health care and we are going  to develop a platform. We are going to develop what electronic medical records should look like, and private industry will follow our lead. Five years later, where is it? I don't know. 
   But I do know this. Do you remember a year ago all the trouble we had out at Walter Reed Hospital and all the negative headlines that were coming out in the Washington Post? And yes, there were some real physical problems in a place out there called building 18. But here is the real problem. Master Sergeant Blaine, who was kind enough to give me a tour through that area at the end of showing me the peeling paint in the building under question which was no longer at that point occupied by our soldiers out there on medical hold, he said, Here is the real problem. I have guys who have been in the service for sometimes 20 years. They are trying to decide whether or not they are kept in the service, whether they can be returned to their unit, or whether they need to be discharged because of whatever their medical condition is, and if they are discharged, what is the disability, what is the correct disability designation to give them? And how can we put that information in the hands of the VA system so that patient's transition to retirement status is made easier? 
   The problem is, the master sergeant told me, that someone who has been in the service for a number of years is going to have a great big, thick medical record. And the problem is, that even the part of the Department of Defense records that are electronic don't talk to the electronic medical records that are kept by the VA system.     
   So the result is they have got to go through a paper interface to go from one platform to the other, and there is this great stack of papers that the soldier will collect themselves, go through with a yellow marker, yellow highlighter, and mark and identify those things that will perhaps make their case for themselves, as to whether or not they should go back to their unit, be discharged on a disability, transition to the VA system. All of that data has to be done by hand by the soldier, and it may take many man-hours to accumulate that data. 
   The real problem, the master sergeant said, was after collecting this voluminous data that may look like the Washington, D.C. phonebook, when it's all said and done, that goes and sits on someone's desk for two weeks' time, and then it's lost and the soldier has to start all over again. So their time in medical hold is increased, their frustration level is certainly increased, and, yeah, the peeling paint and crickets were a problem, because the building was a crummy building. 
   But the real problem was the difficulty that the soldiers were experiencing because one electronic medical records system within the Federal Government didn't talk to the other medical record system within the Federal Government. Just an indication of, to me, perhaps government doesn't have the entire solution here. 
   Mr. Speaker, a couple of other things that I just want to touch on, and I know time is growing short. The medical liability condition in this country is something that really adds to the frustration list. When you talk to doctors about what are some of the things that really bug you, what would be some of the things that shorten perhaps your number of years in practice, your number of years in service, certainly the medical liability issue will come front and center. 
   Mr. Speaker, our Founding Fathers were very wise, and they talked of States as being great laboratories where different ideas can be tried and tested; and I am happy to say within the arena of medical liability, my home State of Texas made some changes a little over 4 years ago that have resulted in a significant, a dramatic improvement in the medical-justice environment in the State of Texas. 
   Consider this: my last year of active practice was 2002. We had gone from 17 medical liability insurers in the State down to two. I am here to tell you, you don't get much competitive advantage when you only have two medical liability insurers. But the claims are going up, the amounts of dollars awarded in claims is going up, and you only have two insurers. Guess what is happening? Premiums for doctors, doctors who historically had not had much in the way of any activity, still, those doctors were being asked to fork over increasing amounts of premiums, and we are talking about significant increases year over year, such that my premium might go up from $18,000 one year, $25,000 the next year. My last year in practice, it was likely to be $28,000. You multiply that by five doctors in a practice, and that is a pretty hefty check to have to write at the beginning of every year. In an OB/GYN practice, as I was in, that's a lot of babies that you have got to deliver just to pay the freight, to pay the tab on medical liability. 
   The State of Texas recognized that they were in crisis. The State legislature in 2003, at the end of their legislative session, passed a medical liability reform bill, and it was patterned after what was called the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975, passed out in California. It essentially was a cap on non-economic damages, patterned after the California law from 1975; but it was a little bit different, a little bit different in that there was a cap on non-economic damages as applied to the physician, a cap on non-economic damages as applied to the hospital, and a cap on non-economic damages as applied to a second hospital, or nursing home, if one was involved. 
   So the cap was trifurcated, each maximum being fixed at $250,000, but an aggregate of $750,000 for non-economic damages. Punitive damages and actual damages were not affected by the law and the subsequent constitutional amendment that was passed in Texas that allowed this law to go into effect. Indeed, it went into effect on September 12, 2003; and since that time, Texas Medical Liability Trust, my old insurer of record, doctors who were insured with Texas Medical Liability Trust, between dividends and reductions in premiums, have seen a return of about 22 percent, a reduction of 22 percent of their premiums that they paid with Texas Medical Liability Trust. Remember, this was an environment that was going up by 10 or 15 percent or more a year. So a significant reduction for the physician. 
   The other unintended beneficiary was the small, not-for-profit hospital that typically was self-insured and had to put vast sums of money in reserve against the unknown aspect of what they might be hit with in a medical liability suit where the non-economic damages were not capped. These small not-for-profit hospitals were able to move some of that money that they were holding against a loss in a legal action and put that into the very things you want your small, not-for-profit community hospital to be doing, like capital improvements, paying nurses, hiring more nurses; perhaps doing some of the very things that would result in better care that would reduce the number of medical-legal claims. So this was a good thing across the spectrum for physicians, for hospitals, for patients in the State of Texas. 
   Now, we have tried several times to do that similar sort of law here on the floor of the House. We have never managed to quite get it done. But House bill 3509 is a bill that is patterned after the Texas law. Again, Mr. Speaker, I know I need to speak directly to you and not to other Members of the House of Representatives, but if I could speak to them directly, I would ask them to have their staffs seriously look at H.R. 3509 and see if there wouldn't be some way for them to cosponsor it. Because, again, I think the weight of significant cosponsors, taking it to the House leadership both on my side and the Democratic side of the aisle, might help tip the balance that we really want something done on this issue. We will still have a tall order in the Senate, which has always been the stumbling block, but the time has come to do some type of sensible medical liability reform, medical justice reform. 
   Well, I have spent a lot of time talking about physician workforce. Let me touch on the other two problems that I alluded to as I began this. Certainly, the second problem we always hear a lot about is the uninsured, and we can argue about what the number is, and the census number will come up with different numbers and different people will have different figures. But by anyone's estimation, it is higher than it should be in this country.  
   If you look at kind of the breakdown of the uninsured, one of the big problems I think we make is we always approach that as some sort of amorphous demographic, where everyone is identical throughout the spectrum of the patients who are uninsured in this country, and the reality is there are vastly different groups contained within that number. 
   Now, a bill that I introduced just a couple of weeks ago that, again, Mr. Speaker, I will address to you, but if I was able to talk to other Members of the House of Representatives, I would suggest they have their staff look at H.R. 4190. Now this is a simple little bill that 
   actually takes Members of Congress and takes them out of the Federal Employees Health Benefit Plan, in other words, makes Members of Congress uninsured. How else are we going to be able to really understand and really deal with the problems of the uninsured when we have very good health insurance? 
   So if every Member of Congress suddenly found themselves without health insurance and placed into that demographic, however large it is, perhaps we could think of some more creative solutions, whether it be a change in the Tax Code, perhaps a tax credit, whether it be some additional help, whatever. Members of Congress would have a renewed vigor with approaching the problems and providing solutions and options for patients who find themselves uninsured. 
   Perhaps it is a health savings account, perhaps an individually owned insurance policy. And, oh, by the way, the tax treatment for that for those provided by an employer and those provided by an individual, the tax treatment is vastly different. Maybe we could come up with some creative ways of looking at that if we ourselves were not kept in this cocoon and anesthetized by the Federal Employees Health Benefit Program. 
   Suffice to say, Mr. Speaker, I have not had a lot of people showing up outside my office to sign on as cosponsors, but it is an intriguing idea, and I do ask Members, I will not ask them to necessarily sign up as cosponsors, but realistically, Mr. Speaker, if I could speak to my colleagues about this, I would ask them to give some thought to how they would approach the problem if they themselves or their families were actually members of the group in this country that did not have health insurance. 
   You break the number down, and the individual demographics, suddenly you start looking at numbers of people where perhaps there are some choices and options. There are some things we could do. Some people tell me that as many as 10 percent of that uninsured demographic are people in universities or just recently graduated university students who, for whatever reasons, don't have health coverage. 
   Well, there is a group of individuals that is fairly easy to insure because they tend to be healthy. Yes, they can have some bad things and they tend to be very expensive when they occur, but almost the ideal population to think about some type of catastrophic coverage, again along the lines of the HSAs that we expanded a few years ago. 
   Perhaps if we equaled out the tax treatment a little bit, because a lot of these individuals are entering the workforce for the first time, they are finding what it is like to pay taxes for the first time, maybe we could get their attention with a little bit more favorable tax treatment. Certainly that is one option we could look at. 
   A number of people in this country actually make enough money to purchase health insurance, but choose not to. Perhaps there would be ways of pricing health insurance so the costs were not so daunting, that the cost was not such a barrier to entry for those individuals; and there are a variety of ways of perhaps approaching that. Congress just simply again perhaps needs to remove some regulations, needs to provide a little bit more level playing field between some of the States and allow this to occur. 
   There is no question that there is a lot of people in this country who are here without the benefit of having a valid Social Security number. That is a large number of our uninsured. Perhaps there are ways that we need to be thinking about how to address and how to approach that population, because clearly it is a difficult issue that we can't just keep putting in the too-hard box and we are going to think about it later. If we don't address that issue, we will never solve the problem. 
   Mr. Speaker, let's not forget, we had a hearing on the Federally Qualified Health Centers in my committee on Energy and Commerce earlier this month. Fifteen million people actually get their health care through a Federally Qualified Health Center. Well, they have a medical home. For all intents and purposes, although they may lack an actual insurance policy on paper, they have access to medical care, they have access to a medical home through a Federally Qualified Health Center. So let's stop counting those as members of the uninsured, because they all obviously do have access to care. 
   One final point that I do need to make, Mr. Speaker, and, again, I realize that time is short and it has been a long week: Do we increase the participation of the Federal Government in health care? Is that the answer for us in dealing with a lot of the problems that we face today? 
   Well, I would ask us to look at a couple of things. You look at what is still on our to-do list as Congress wraps up this year, and what are some of the big things you see? First off, we haven't funded the money for veterans services and veterans health care. That is still up there on the to-do list. 
   I have talked about it already, but we have not dealt with the looming reduction in physician reimbursement rates that is out there and fixing to happen to doctors across the country in just a few short weeks' time. 
   We haven't dealt with whatever our final resolution is going to be on continuing the State Children's Health Insurance Program, a program administered by States, but they receive a significant amount of money from the Federal Government. And we have as yet not been able to come to a conclusion as to what we are going to do about funding the future for the State Children's Health Insurance Program. 
   Take a step back and look at that. We haven't funded veterans, we haven't figured out what we are going to do for our Medicare patients, because the doctors may leave because we decided not to pay them, and, oh, by the way, we still haven't done anything to cover our kids. 
   Do we want to be giving the Federal Government an increased reach and grasp of our health care in this country? Are we doing such a good job here that you want to reward us with more? 
   You see Members of Congress write op-eds in the Washington Post where they talk about expanding Medicare to people that are age 55. But, by the way, good luck on finding a doctor, because we are not paying them anymore and they are dropping out of the system. 
   So we have people in this Congress who want to sort of drag and drop people into Federal programs, take people off of private health insurance in the State Children's Health Insurance Program. One of the big issues there, we want to expand the program so big that it pulls kids off of private insurance, because, you know what, it is too hard to go down and find those really poor kids that we are supposed to be covering. That is a lot of work. They move around a lot. They may not really live with their parents any more. It is just a lot of hard work to find them. It would be a lot easier to go get some middle-class kids and pull them in to have a number of 10 million and say, look, aren't we great, what we did with the State Children's Health Insurance Program. 
   I don't know. I don't know. You talk to pediatricians who work in private practice in this country. You ask them how they are reimbursed in the State Children's Health Insurance Program versus private commercial insurance. And guess what? Private commercial insurance, for all its faults, is still a better reimbursement rate than the State Children's Health Insurance Program by about a two to one margin. So are we going to be helping our pediatricians by pushing more kids on to the state-run program and pulling them off of those private programs? I don't think so. 
   Right now the Federal Government has control of about 50 cents out of every health care dollar that is spent in this country. The remainder of that is not all private insurance. The lion's share of it is. Certainly some people  still write a check for their health care, just like they did when my dad was in practice back in the 1950s. Some doctors give of their time willingly. They give charitable care. We never account for that in any of the demographic studies that we do. But half of the health care in this country, the dollars spent on health care in this country, 50 cents out of every health care dollar originates right here in the House of Representatives. 
   Are we doing a good job with what we already have? Might we not be asked to improve what we are doing in those programs before we are asking you to let us take over even more of how we deliver health care in this country? It is certainly food for thought as we wrap up this year in the United States Congress. 
   I would emphasize one more time, Mr. Speaker, and again I will address my remarks to you, if I could talk directly to Members who are involved in leadership on both sides of this House of Representatives, Mr. Speaker, I would ask that they seriously look at fixing the problem with physician reimbursement rates that we are coming up on now like a freight train and it is going to have a significant negative impact on the care rendered to our seniors in the Medicare program.     
   But we have got to pay attention to what we are doing for our veterans. We have got to pay attention with the State Children's Health Insurance Program. Again, lots of areas for improvement, I think, before we talk about expanding the reach and grasp of the Federal Government. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (NATIONAL TRAUMA CENTER STABILIZATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - May 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, tonight I come to the floor of the House to talk about the bipartisan health care bill introduced by Mr. Towns, Ms. Blackburn and Mr. Waxman. This bill, the National Trauma Center Stabilization Act, is particularly timely, given that this is National Hospital Week. 
   While it seems like there's a special observance for everything these days, National Hospital Week celebrates the vital role hospitals play in our communities. From delivering our babies to treating traumatic injuries, to caring for our sick and elderly, our Nation's 6,000 hospitals are a critical component of the American health care system, and the American health care system is the best in the world, in part, due to the quality of our Nation's hospitals. 
   Because of my background treating patients, one of my top priorities in Congress is ensuring that the Federal Government does its part to maintain and improve health care in this country. This includes strong support for our hospitals. 
   To this end, the National Trauma Center Stabilization Act will help give the 500 trauma centers around the country the support they need to do the critical work they do, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. 
   Madam Speaker, I took an oath as a physician and as a policy maker to serve patients and people to the best of my abilities. It's wonderful when these two pledges intersect to make productive policy. The bipartisan National Trauma Center Stabilization Act meets both of these criteria. There's no better time to sign on than today, during National Hospital Week. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (STROKE TREATMENT AND ONGOING PREVENTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to rise in support of H.R. 477, the STOP Stroke Act. By passing this legislation, we are drawing attention to the dangers of stroke and heart disease. As we have already heard, stroke is the third leading cause of death in this country, preceded by cardiovascular disease and cancer, but clearly an important cause of death in this country. It is the most common cause of adult disability. As we have already heard, each year, more than 700,000 Americans suffer stroke, and 160,000 die from stroke-related causes. 
   It is important to increase awareness and knowledge about stroke and stroke prevention. One of the key components of this legislation is that it allows the Secretary of HHS to establish programs for education about stroke prevention. 
   Additionally, the STOP Stroke Act provides federally funded grants to health care professionals at qualified entities to help educate them about the need for prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation. 
   Lastly, the legislation before us today includes a 5-year pilot program that provides grants to States and public-private entities for coordination of health care through telehealth networks. 
   I want to thank Congresswoman Capps and Congressman Pickering for their work in bringing this legislation to the floor tonight. I urge my colleagues to support the STOP Stroke Act. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (STROKE TREATMENT AND ONGOING PREVENTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, through the course of these three bills being brought by the Energy and Commerce Committee tonight, we have heard a number of stories. People have shared with us their personal stories. 
   I saw on the news wires just this evening where a good friend of our committee, Jack Valenti, had been hospitalized with a stroke earlier this week. 
   My own father suffered a stroke, May 23 of 1989. He, unfortunately, died 2 years ago this week. He spent the last 16 years of his life living with a disability as a result of that stroke. The day that it happened, he lost the ability to speak and never regained it prior to his death. 
   Stroke treatment is so important and it has evolved over time. It wasn't too many years ago where it was just simply a question of being certain about the diagnosis, making certain the stroke patient was stable, and then making arrangements for their rehabilitation. But so much more can be done now. 
   And we heard about the golden hour when talking about the trauma bill. Actually, for stroke victims, if treatment is rendered within the first 3 hours of a clot occurring, anti-clot medications, clot-busting medications, thrombolytic agents can be administered to restore significant function to that and prevent injury to that part of the brain that has been injured by, or been placed in jeopardy by, the presence of a clot. 
   Other strokes are caused by bleeding and blood vessel malformations within the brain; and one of our colleagues in the other body, indeed, suffered such an injury earlier this year. The treatment is vastly different. Clearly, those patients should not be treated with clot-inhibiting agents because they would be placed at greater risk. 
   So the diagnosis of the type of stroke at the time of the stroke becomes critical, and that is where the funding placed for the education and the medical research becomes so important. Further, it is my feeling that, as time goes forward, we will indeed improve the ability to help individuals who have been afflicted by a stroke. 
   Additionally, the bill calls for the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish programs educating the public about stroke prevention. And thanks to my good friends at mayoclinic.com, I would like to take just a moment to run through, to enumerate those things that should be done for stroke prevention. And the number one issue is, if a person has hypertension, that hypertension needs to be controlled. If a person has high cholesterol, that needs to be lowered, either by modifying diet, a diet low in fat or a cholesterol lowering medication such as a statin. No one should smoke in the United States today. If you are diabetic, control your blood sugar. Maintain a healthy weight. Exercise regularly. Avoid stress. Don't serve in Congress. Oh, that wasn't on the list. Avoid stress. And if you do use alcohol or illicit drugs, perhaps you ought to think of another activity. 
   These are very commonsense recommendations. They have been developed by, again, our good friends at Mayo Clinic. And I urge all Americans to consider incorporating those into their lifestyle. 
   This is important legislation. I urge my colleagues to support the legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (TRAUMA CARE SYSTEMS PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, as we have just heard, this is an important bill. Trauma is one of the most expensive illnesses that we treat in this country. I am so pleased today to stand in support of H.R. 727, the Trauma Care Systems Planning and Development Act of 2007. 
   In 1990, the Trauma Care Systems Planning and Development Act created title XII of the Public Health Service Act. This program was borne out of a report in which it was found that severely injured individuals in a majority of both urban and rural areas of the United States were not receiving the benefit of trauma systems, despite considerable evidence that a trauma system would improve survival rates. 
   H.R. 727 requires the Health Resources and Services Administration to work with each State to help establish advanced trauma life support systems and to train EMS personnel for rural areas. Likewise, the program will help to make improvements in communication and coordination with the larger State trauma systems. 
   For Americans between the ages of 1 and 44, trauma is the leading cause of death. Traumatic injury in the United States, largely due to motor-related  trauma, totals $260 billion in costs. By reauthorizing this program, we will achieve the goal of ensuring that all areas of the United States have appropriate emergency medical services. 
   As the legislation is structured, entities, either States or independent agencies, may compete for planning and development grants to help improve the trauma system and coordination in a given region. That is a distinct difference from the trauma bill that existed before. 
   This bill is an improvement over the previous authorization because it will allow both States and other political subdivisions to work cooperatively to improve trauma systems. This bill also represents a more realistic authorization that will essentially act as start-up Federal funding for enhanced communication, enhanced coordination and data collection for States and other eligible grantees. 
   Certainly, I need to join my colleague from Texas in thanking Congressman Barton and Congressman Dingell for their hard work on this legislation. Mr. Speaker, this has been a work in process for some time. 
   My personal staff, Josh Martin, worked diligently on this bill last year. There were a number of issues with the other body which took some time to resolve, but happily they were resolved before the end of the year. We are now able to support H.R. 727 in this Congress, get the bill passed and get this coordination of service where it is so badly needed. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (NATIONAL BREAST AND CERVICAL CANCER EARLY DETECTION PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Let me also add my congratulations to the girls' basketball team at Brooklyn Thomas Jefferson High School. That is quite an accomplishment. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight in support of H.R. 1132, the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program. The National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program has had many proven successes in screening low-income, minority and uninsured women for little or no cost. 
   The Centers for Disease Control estimates that between 8 and 11 percent of women nationwide are eligible for participation in this program. Since its inception in 1991, the early detection program has served almost 3 million women, providing more than 6.9 million screening examinations, and has diagnosed almost 30,000 breast cancers, 95,000 precursor cervical lesions, and 1,800 cervical cancers. There is a direct link between these statistical figures and the lives that have been saved. 
   The Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation and the American Cancer Society have been instrumental in promoting the successes of the early detection program. 
   I would also like to commend the gentlewoman from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) and the gentlewoman from North Carolina (Mrs. Myrick), a breast cancer survivor herself, who have worked tirelessly in bringing this legislation to the floor of the House and eventually to the President's desk to be signed into law. I urge my colleagues' support of this legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (ELECTING OFFICERS OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES -- (House of Representatives - February 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I too want to join my colleagues at wishing a fond and reluctant farewell to Jay Eagen and Karen Haas. They have both served this institution with great distinction and reflected well on the institution of the House. 
   But I rise today to honor Lorraine Miller of Fort Worth, Texas, on her appointment as Clerk of the House of Representatives. Of course, as Clerk of the House of Representatives, Ms. Miller's responsibilities will include but not be limited to the page board, congressional travel reports and disclosure forms, the voting system, oversight of the legislative operation of the House floor. She is well prepared for this. She has worked at the highest levels of government, which have contributed to her leadership abilities and her knowledge of management. 
   The role of the Clerk is demanding and requires someone with great intellect. Ms. Miller will certainly bring strength and diversity to the Office of Clerk as the first African American woman to hold this top House position. 
   Ms. Miller first worked for the House of Representatives for U.S. Congressman Jim Wright back in Fort Worth, Texas, when he was majority leader. She moved on to work for then-Speaker Tom Foley, U.S. Congressman John Lewis, and finally the current speaker, Speaker Pelosi. Ms. Miller also worked as deputy assistant to the president of Legislative Affairs for the House of Representatives during the administration of Bill Clinton. She additionally held positions at the Federal Communications Commission and the Federal Trade Commission. 
   It is with great honor that I recognize Ms. Lorraine C. Miller for decades of hard work and selfless dedication. I want to join her friends and family, both here in Washington, D.C. and particularly back home in Fort Worth, Texas, where I represent, in congratulating her on this prestigious milestone. She has been an inspiration and a role model to many, and I know she will continue to be a role model to many of the young men and women who will watch her progress with pride here in the House of Representatives. And I, for one, look forward to working with her here in Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (DENTON, TEXAS -- (House of Representatives - April 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Denton County, Texas. 
   I grew up in Denton, a town where a mere 160 years ago there were more cattle than people. In fact, when my parents moved to the area in 1951, the town of Denton was a city of 20,000. Today it is well over 100,000 and the county is well over 400,000. 
   Denton is not the biggest county in America, but as long as I can remember, it is the kind of place where you knew the mayor, the local shop owners, the bank tellers, or the manager of the local grocery store. The fabric of the community was in the businesses that helped build the community and sustain life there. The same is true today. 
   Some of these Denton County businesses and the Chambers of Commerce that represent them are here in Washington today. I am pleased to welcome my friends and some of the local officials to the Nation's capital. I also want to thank them for helping make Denton County a place of entrepreneurship and economic opportunity, a friendly place where people are glad to see you, and I, for one, am very glad to call home. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I am coming to the floor tonight, like I have so often in recent weeks, to talk a little bit about health care in our country. The delivery of health care services is one of the things that may not be the first thing that registers in any poll that's taken in this country, but it's sure third or fourth, and it appears in every poll that is taken in this country. 
   We are, indeed, on the threshold of what might be called a transformational time as far as how health care services are delivered in this country. Certainly, over the remaining 18 months of the 110th Congress, we are going to have several different issues before us, several different times, where we will be able to talk about and debate various aspects of our health care system. 
   Of course, just of necessity, as a big part of the Presidential election that will occur in the 18 months time, we will deal with the issues surrounding health care and the delivery of health care services in this country. We will be deciding, what road do we want to go if we have a system in our country now where about half is delivered, half of every health care dollar that is spent originates here in the U.S. Congress, and the other half comes from the private sector, uncompensated care and so-called charity care. 
   What do we want to see grow? What do we want to see encouraged? What do we want to see improved? Do we want to grow the public sector or do we want to grow the private sector? 
   Certainly expanding the government sector and its involvement in delivery of services, terms you will hear talked about on the floor of this House, things like universal health care, health care for all--in the early 1990s, we called it ``Hillary care''--or do we want to encourage the private sector? 
   Do we want to encourage the private sector to stay involved in the delivery of health care services in this country, to be sure, to be certain, whether it's public or private, that the dollars that are spent are spent wisely to expand the coverage that's generally available for our citizens of this country. But these two options, and all of the questions and concerns that surround them, this is what we are going to have to decide in this House, certainly within the 18 months that remain in the 110th Congress, or very quickly after we enter into the 111th Congress. 
   I am hopeful that by visiting with you on some of these things tonight, providing some explanations and some insights into the directions that we might go, or we could consider going, and at its heart, at its core, I think we need to bear in mind that for all of the criticisms that are out there, and we have heard several of them here in the last hour, but for all the criticisms out there about this country and, in particular, its health care system, we do have a health care system that is indeed the envy of the world. 
   We have people from all over the world who come to the various medical centers over the United States to receive their care there. I believe, my position is, that we want to be certain that we maintain the excellence in the health care system that we have today, improve those parts that need improving, but don't sacrifice the excellence that exists in many areas of our country. 
   Some people are going to say, well, that's an overstatement that the United States health care system is a good one. They will look at, cite the numbers of the uninsured, they will start to cite the high cost of prescription drugs. There is no question that these are tough issues that this House is going to have to tackle.  
   Face it, you can pretty much manipulate statistics and numbers any way that you want to. The old adage is that there are lies, there are darn lies, and there are statistics. We have to be careful about how we ask the question and how we frame the question. We have to also be careful that we don't frame the question just so we get the answer that we want, and that we don't effect any improvement for the American people. 
   But let's talk a little bit about the history, about the background of how we got the system that we have today, how we got where we are today. 
   So, actually, if we go back and look at our country during the time of World War II, President Roosevelt felt that he had to do something to prevent wartime inflation from simply overtaking the economy. In an effort to do that, he put in place wage and price controls and told employers that, well, employees' wages would be frozen at certain amounts. 
   Well, employers were having a tough time keeping employees anyway. Many people were off fighting the war or were otherwise involved in the war effort. So employees that were here in this country and available were at a premium. So the employer wanted to do something to ensure that he kept his workforce on the job. And one of the things that they thought about doing was, what if we offer a health care benefit? Is that something that we can do that we will still not violate the spirit of the wage controls that President Roosevelt has imposed? 
   Indeed, they got a Supreme Court ruling on this subject, and the Supreme Court said that, no, health care benefits would be outside the scope of the wage and price controls. Health care benefits are something that you can make available to your employees, and in fact, you can make those available to employees, and neither the employee nor the employer will be taxed on those dollars that are so spent. 
   We came out of the Second World War, of course, victorious; at the same time, we had an economy that was just beginning the postwar boom. That economy that was so robust after the war led to the creation of more jobs, more employment. Indeed, the health care benefit was a benefit that was attractive; it was one that people liked. Indeed, it was one that stuck around and persevered and grew over time. 
   But we were also right at the beginning of a lot of pent-up demand as far as people starting their families, and we saw families start to have children. Boy, did they have children. This was the initiation of the so-called baby-boom generation. 
   The United States, like many other allies coming out of the Second World War, the United States was really in a unique position, both economically, and from the standpoint that the war was not fought in our backyard, in contrast to Western Europe, we actually were in pretty good shape coming out of the Second World War. 
   Contrast that to Western Europe, and even Great Britain, ostensibly a victor in the Great War, but at the same time, their economy was in much tougher shape; and when you get onto the continent of Europe, indeed, a good deal more difficulty with the economic recovery in the time immediately following the Second World War. 
   So a single-payer health care system of necessity was a requirement that the government needed to stand up and stand up in a hurry in order to prevent a significant humanitarian crisis that might otherwise have existed. In order to uphold the health care of their citizens, these governments were required to set up systems in a fairly short period of time. 
   Fast forward 20 years from 1945 to 1965, and we have the initiation of Medicare, and, shortly thereafter, of the program now known as Medicaid. These programs were signed into law by another Texas President; agreeably, of note, he was from across the aisle, but another Texas President signed these programs into law. 
   Today, these large government-run programs are focused. Initially they were created to focus on hospital care for the elderly and basic health care services for individuals who are less well off. Now, decades later--1965, when the Medicare program was started--decades later it was evident that the government-run program was slow to change, in need of reform, and it operated at an expense that was just unthought of at the time of the inception of the program. The expense of running Medicare was truly extraordinary.     
   By 2003, Congress certainly recognized the outdated model, and was called upon by the President here in this Chamber. President Bush in the first State of the Union Address that I attended as a Member of Congress stood in this House and said: The problem of providing a prescription drug benefit to our seniors is too important to wait for another Congress; it is too important to wait for another President; and it is work we are going to take up this year with this Congress, and we are going to get this done. 
   Indeed, the President was correct, and that happened. By the end of 2003, the Medicare Modernization Act, that did provide for a prescription drug benefit we now know as the part D section of Medicare, was signed into law, and 2 years later it began to deliver on that promise and deliver prescription benefits to senior citizens who previously had not had access to a prescription drug program. 
   But it was clear that the government system needed to catch up to what by comparison was a relatively robust private system that was already doing the things required, focusing on things like disease management and disease prevention. 
   The good work done by the people at the National Institutes of Health over the previous 40 years had certainly set the stage for what we now recognize as a virtual explosion in preventive care. The premature cardiac deaths prevented by research done and delivered by the National Institutes of Health, probably somewhere between 800,000 and 1 million lives from the mid-1960s to the present time, over that 40-year interval, probably 1 million lives that have been saved or 1 million premature deaths that have been prevented by advances in treatment and prevention of heart disease, which in 1965 was certainly a more serious illness or affected a good number of people. And the problem was that oftentimes the first symptom of cardiac disease in 1965 was sudden death. 
   We no longer think in terms of cardiac disease as extracting that type of toll from our citizens, and that is largely because of the benefits that are there, benefits provided by the medicines like the statins that lower cholesterol, that are able to prevent and postpone the serious aspects of cardiac disease. 
   So Congress passed the Medicare prescription drug plan that gives seniors coverage for medication. The program has been successful, providing greater benefits for seniors. It did not come without considerable discussion and considerable argument back and forth. But with a massive push by the Department of Health and Human Services, the success of the Medicare prescription drug program now, I think, is clearly evident. But, at the same time, the private sector also continued to improve and expand, and it kind of brings us to the crossroads where we find ourselves today. 
   Again, at the present time the government pays for about half of all health care administered in this country. The current gross domestic product is roughly $11 trillion, and the Department of Health and Human Services, with its Medicare and Medicaid services alone, costs this country each year upwards of $600 billion. Add to that the expense for the VA, Indian Health Service, Federal Prison Service, and clearly you can see that we are getting quickly to that number which represents 50 percent out of every health care dollar that is spent in this country originating in this Congress. 
   Again, the other half is broken down, with the primary weight being carried by private industry, commercial insurance. There is also some charitable and some self-pay accounting for the balance of that number. 
   As the numbers increase for just the overall expense of health care, and the Federal Government continues to have to put more and more of the American taxpayers' dollars into health care, we have got to ask ourselves, are we using the taxpayer dollar wisely? Is the government providing excellence as far as managing money when it spends dollars for health care? Is the government better suited to make decisions about  health care than families? Who is better suited to handle the growing health care requirements in this country? 
   Now, a government-only universal health care system tends to be more inflexible. In America, my concern is that it will hamper our innovation and delivery of some of the most modern health care services available anywhere in the world. 
   Two specific examples that a private-based system is more flexible and less expensive. Look at what goes on to our northern neighbor in Canada, a government-run system that took over health care shortly after the Second World War. It is a universal system, and the Canadians are very proud of their system, and rightly so. But there are some trade-offs, and one of the trade-offs is there can be a wait for health care services. In fact, the Canadian Supreme Court ruled in 2005 that access to a waiting list was not the same thing as access to care, and that in some instances the waiting list was, in fact, health care denied to Canadian citizens. And the Supreme Court required that the Canadian system remedy that. 
   But in Canada, if you find yourself with a diagnosis and a treatment, but a long time between that diagnosis and treatment, people who have the cash can certainly travel across the border to the south into the United States and find that they can have whatever it is they have been placed on a waiting list that seems interminable; whether it be a cardiac catheterization, a CAT scan, an MRI, they find they get it much more quickly than if they simply waited it out in Canada. 
   So, we have to ask ourselves, is our health or the health of someone in our family something with which we are willing to gamble that that length of time, that that delay won't cause problems, won't increase the morbidity for that particular disease process, won't lead to a lower expectation of a cure or salvage with whatever that particular diagnosis is? 
   The British Isles, where they have a similar type of system, they have a National Health Service. Again, very famous. Britons love the system. But, in fact, they also have a private system that coexists within their country. And if the National Health Service is not able to get to someone in a timely manner, and if that patient or their family has the funds available to expend, then indeed they can be seen in the private system. And for patients who are concerned that they might not survive their wait, or they are living with significant disability, this is a choice that they are willing to make. 
   But the reality is, again, our population is getting older and older, and if you ask someone who is in their sixth decade, seventh decade, eighth decade of life to wait for 4 months, 6 months, 8 months, 12 months or longer for a procedure or a diagnostic test, we, in fact, are consuming a significant amount of the available time they have left, and this, in fact, is not a fair allocation of health services. 
   So my premise would be that the private sector, with all of its difficulties, with all of its faults, is more nimble and is a more suitable and stable arena from which we can build our health care system in the future. 
   This is a complex relationship; and how Congress instructs the medical care in this country be done is largely going to determine if we have the best health care system possible. Certainly, it is incumbent upon Congress to promote policies that help the public sector maintain efficiency and become efficient in areas where it is not efficient, and, at the same time, allow the private sector to lead the way with innovation and development of new therapies, new techniques, and new ways of tackling old problems. 
   Now, one of the things that immediately comes to mind any time you have a discussion about health care is the issue with the uninsured. The uninsured population in this country is estimated by the United States Census Bureau to be somewhere around 46 million people. Now, within that group, I would argue that access to health care is not frequently the issue; it is the coverage that is the issue, because there always exists an emergency room someplace where care can be delivered urgently. But we all know the problem there is you don't always get your best result if you put off the treatment or the diagnosis until such time as it just no longer will allow itself to be put off, and we can increase the cost of health care by delivering health care under that model. But I would stress that in this country, it is not lack of access to health care, because those access points do exist, but it is lack of access to coverage that drives a 
   lot of this debate. 
   Now, some of the things that have happened, and two examples that we should talk about, and, in fact, they are issues that we are going to need to take up within this Congress, because both programs require reauthorization, are the State Children's Health Insurance Program, or the SCHIP program, and Federally Qualified Health Centers. 
   Now, currently the children's health insurance operates as a joint Federal-State partnership. It certainly provides some flexibility for States to determine the standards of providing health care and funding for those children who are not eligible for Medicaid, but whose parents truly cannot afford health insurance. The program has been successful, and it has been successful across the board. 
   As we look to reauthorize the program this year, I think one of the things we can do and should do is clarify the fact that it is children's health insurance. While the intent of the legislation is clear, some States have opted to spend their funds on individuals other than children or pregnant adults. In an effort to correct this process, I introduced H.R. 1013, making certain that the SCHIP funds are spent exclusively on children and pregnant women, not on other groups. We don't cover every child who should be covered under the SCHIP program; and, until we do, it only makes sense that we restrict the funding, again, for children and for pregnant women, who are obviously going to be having a child in the near future, so that child can be covered during the prenatal period. But to take those dollars that should be spent covering children when not every child is covered in this country and spend that covering nonpregnant adults seems to undo the intent of the legislation. 
   Now, if our intent is to provide other coverage for other individuals, let's have that debate, let's have that discussion, let's have that vote. But let's keep those dollars that are designated to provide health care for children providing health care for children. 
   But SCHIP is an example where children and pregnant women can receive additional medical coverage which otherwise would not be available to them through the Medicaid program. And, certainly, there are some people who are now covered by SCHIP who previously would have fallen into the broad category as the uninsured. 
   Other ways of coverage for those individuals who are not children, who are not pregnant, there is access to care. If a Federally Qualified Health Center is available in the area, certainly health care can be gained through an FQHC. The patient has access to health care without insurance. In fact, 15 million of that number of the uninsured can access their health care through a Federally Qualified Health Center. A medical home, continuity of care, see the same doctor every time, in some instances have dental and other coverage, have some coverage for prescription drugs. This is real care available to real people, and it is care that should not be discounted, because it is available to all persons in the community regardless of ability to pay, and it is a program that has been up and running for 35 years. It is a program that is providing care today. 
   Both SCHIP and the Federally Qualified Health Center program were designed to help the poorest, the youngest, and those underserved in our communities. What about individuals that can afford to pay some of their health care services? Two programs that would assist individuals and their companies in receiving health care coverage, health savings accounts and association health plans. 
   Health savings accounts, previously known as medical savings accounts, are a tax-advantaged savings account that is available to taxpayers who are enrolled in a high-deductible insurance plan, an insurance plan with lower premiums and higher deductibles than a traditional health plan. Sometimes that is referred to as a catastrophic health plan, but it is with a difference, because you can put money away up to an amount that is $5,000 for a married  couple. You can put money away in a tax-deferred or tax-free savings account. That money must be used only to pay for health care services in the future, but that money grows over time and can be a significant source of health care funds for an individual or a couple as they go through life. 
   For the health savings accounts, the funds are contributed to the account, they are not subject to income tax, and they can only be used to pay for qualified medical expenses. But the best part of having a health savings account is that all deposits to an HSA become the property of the policyholder regardless of the source of the deposit. So that means whether it is the individual themselves or their employer who deposits that money into the health savings account, the actual policyholder is the owner of those dollars designated for health care.     
   And patients have a say in how and when they spend their health care dollars; any funds deposited but not withdrawn each year carry over to the next year. And the popularity of HSAs has grown considerably since their inception. 
   Now remember, medical savings accounts were started a little over 10 years ago in the Kennedy-Kassebaum bill that was passed in 1996. With the Medicare Modernization Act in 2003, the health savings accounts became the follow-on from the medical savings account. These were expanded. The number of companies offering insurance greatly expanded, a lot of the restrictions were removed, and health savings accounts really represent the full measure of what the old medical savings account attempted to achieve, but it just simply had too many regulations in its way to allow itself to come to fruition. 
   But numbers from 2005, by December of 2005, some 3.2 million individuals had coverage from a HSA. Of that number, 42 percent of those individuals or families had incomes below $50,000 and were purchasing health savings account-type insurance. The HSAs are an affordable option. 
   In addition, the number of previously uninsured HSA plan purchasers over the age of 60 nearly doubled, proving that plans are accessible to people of all ages. And really, the proof of that, for a young person in the mid-1990s, getting out of college, perhaps going to go into business for themselves, didn't want to go to work for a big company, no longer can be carried on their parents' health insurance, almost impossible to buy health insurance coverage at any price. I know, because I tried in the mid-1990s to do just that for one of my children. 
   Fast forward to the present time. Go on the Internet, your search engine of choice, type in health savings accounts, and very quickly, with a few clicks, you'll be with a menu that has a number of options available as far as health savings accounts are concerned. And a high deductible, reputable company, PPO plan in the State of Texas for a male, 25 years of age, nonsmoker, these premiums run about $65 a month. 
   Yes, you do have a high deductible. Yes, until that high deductible is funded with tax-deferred, pretax dollars that are going to go into that health savings account to grow over time and provide the offset for that high deductible, sure, during the first year or early years of having a health savings account, things like preventive care are not necessarily going to be covered. Those are expenses that will have to be paid for out of pocket because most people, fortunately, will not get to the limit of their deductible. 
   A young person needs a flu shot. They're probably going to have to write a check for that out of personal funds. But over time, that so-called medical IRA will grow and, again, it grows tax deferred and so it can begin to grow quite quickly. 
   Albert Einstein one time said the most powerful force for good known to man was the miracle of compound interest. That money will grow over time. So for a young person especially, starting that type of account, again, that that can be very powerful. 
   Now, of the 46 million Americans who are uninsured, nearly 60 percent of them are employed, and they're employed within a small business. Some of these individuals prefer a more traditional health plan than a HSA, but their employer, the small business for whom they work, find offering a health benefit is either nonexistent or just quite simply too expensive for them to provide. 
   To take some of the burden off of the small employer who wants to provide insurance for their employee, Congress has devised the concept of what is known as association health plans. This allows small businesses a similar business model, or business plan, to band together to get the purchasing power of a much larger corporation in order to provide more cost-effective insurance coverage to their employees. 
   A group of realtors, for example, or a group of Chambers of Commerce, or medical offices or dental offices or insurance offices, these groups would be able to form a purchasing unit that would be able to purchase health care, again, get the purchasing clout of a much larger group than a small office could ever provide by itself. 
   This legislation has passed the House of Representatives twice in the 108th Congress, twice in the 109th Congress. It never could get through the Senate, and I believe it is still an important concept and one which we need to come together and work on. 
   We heard the group before me talking about how important it was to have a bipartisan effort on these issues, and I certainly welcome that spirit, and would suggest we do need to have a bipartisan effort on working out these types of problems for the American people, because association health plans might not bring down the number of uninsured acutely, right away, but it will certainly help stem the number of small employers who are finding it increasingly difficult to provide insurance for their employees. 
   So it will bend that growth curve of the uninsured that has gone inexorably upward. It will bend that growth curve of the uninsured in a much more favorable direction. 
   But I think we also heard from the President this year when he talked in the State of the Union address, he talked a little bit about perhaps providing some tax relief to individuals who are self-employed, who would purchase insurance but, gosh, I've got to buy it with after-tax dollars, and that just adds to the expense. So the President was talking about providing some measure of tax relief for individuals who wish to have their own insurance policy. 
   He also talked about putting a cap on the upper limit of insurance benefits that would be able to be offered by a company to an employee and come to that employee as an untaxed benefit. 
   One of the things in addition to the issues that the President brought up and one of the things that I think this Congress should look at as perhaps a follow-on or extension to what the President was talking about, would be to provide, whether you call it vouchers, whether you call it tax credits for people who lack insurance, whether you call it premium support, to buy down the cost of the premiums so that a person who is employed, but says those health insurance premiums are just too expensive for me to afford. If we can help that individual pay that premium cost, that keeps the individual off of the Medicaid rolls. So it keeps them from being a governmental expense and allows them to participate in their employer's insurance plan, which has an advantage of keeping the insurance plan that the employer offers a viable one because more employees will be participating; and over time, perhaps that employer will find that they can indeed reach a stage in their employment where they are, in fact, able to carry the cost of the premium expense themselves. 
   But the concept of premium support not mentioned by the President during his State of the Union address, but one which I feel very strongly is an issue that should be explored by this Congress, it is a concept that we should study, and I think come up with a solution that would be a benefit for the American people. 
   Well, one of the other things that I do want to talk about in the context of all of these things that I've discussed with health care is, we've got to be careful we're not putting the cart before the horse. A conversation with Alan Greenspan about a year and a half ago, just as he was leaving the Federal Reserve Board, the obvious question came up, how in the world is Congress  ever going to pay for Medicare in the future? 
   He thought about it. He said, at some point, when the time comes, the Congress will do the right thing and figure out a way to pay for Medicare. He paused and then said, what concerns me more is, will there be anyone left to provide the services that you desire when you get to that point? And that is a very valid observation, and certainly one that drives a lot of my thinking when I study the issues surrounding health care and health care delivery in this country. Because the question legitimately can be asked, is our country heading into what might be described as a crisis in physician staffing, a crisis brought on by a physician shortage in the country? 
   And I reference back in my home State of Texas. The Texas Medical Association puts out a magazine every month, a periodical every month, called Texas Medicine. 
   I stole the cover of their March issue because it really says what Mr. Greenspan was telling us that day. The title of the lead article in the periodical last March was, Running Out of Doctors. And that is a concept that I think this Congress, we need to pay some attention to that. And if we don't, I think we put the system in this country in greater peril than it needs to be. 
   And we need to ensure that the doctors who are in practice today stay in practice, that they stay engaged, they stay there providing care to their patients. These are doctors who are at the peak of their clinical abilities, they're at the peak of their diagnostic abilities. We want them to remain active in their practices and providing services and, honestly, services to the patient who have, who provide them with their most complex medical challenges, our senior citizens. 
   So what steps do we need to take to ensure we have an adequate physician workforce going forward into the future and ensure that the doctors of today stay engaged in the practice of medicine, and that the young people of tomorrow come to realize that a career in health care is one that is not only viable but one that is going to be rewarding for them as well? 
   Well, tackling a problem that has plagued the medical community for years and years revolves around the issues of medical liability. My belief is that we need a commonsense medical liability reform to protect patients, to stop the escalation of costs associated with lawsuits, and to make health care, to keep health care more affordable and thereby more accessible for more Americans, and to keep the necessary services in the communities that need them the most. 
   My belief is that we do need a national solution. The State-to-State solutions that have grown out of necessity do leave vast populations in jeopardy, and have the undesirable effect of actually increasing health care expenditures in this country all of the time that we leave that condition unsolved. 
   I like the system that was developed by my home State of Texas that placed caps on noneconomic damages in medical liability suits. I think it is one that certainly is worthy of study by this body, and perhaps worthy of consideration by this body. Texas brought together all the major stakeholders in the discussion, doctors, hospitals, nursing homes and patients. The State was able to have these discussions and bring the stakeholders to the table and come up and craft legislation that really put the brakes on the escalation that was going on in medical premiums; and just as importantly, to keep medical liability insurers involved in writing policies in the State of Texas. 
   We'd lost most of our medical liability insurers from the State. They had simply closed up shop and left because they could not see a future in providing medical liability insurance in Texas. We went from 17 insurers in 2000 down to two in 2002. Rates were increasing year over year. In my personal situation, before I left medical practice, my rates were increasing by 30 percent to 50 percent each year. 
   So, in 2003, the Texas State Legislature passed a medical liability reform based on a much older reform passed in the State of California. California, in 1975, passed the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975, which essentially put a cap on noneconomic damages in medical liability suits, and it has worked extraordinarily well in the State of California. 
   The Texas law was modified a little bit, I'd say made ready for the 21st century. Instead of a single $250,000 cap, there is a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages as it pertains to a physician, a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages as it pertains to a hospital, and an additional $250,000 cap as it pertains to a nursing home or a second hospital, if one is involved, for an aggregate cap of $750,000. 
   So the question is, how has the Texas plan fared? It actually came into law September 12th of 2003, and remember, I said the State had dropped from 17 medical liability carriers down to two because of the medical liability crisis in the State. Now we're back up to 14 or 15 carriers. And most importantly, they came back to write business in the State of Texas without an increase in their premiums. This is, indeed, a significant reversal. 
   More options mean better prices and a more secure setting for medical professionals to remain in practice and certainly provides physicians the certainty that they need to keep their practices open in Texas. And one of the most astounding and unintended beneficiaries of this was that of the small, community, not-for-profit hospital that was self-insured for medical liability. These small community hospitals have been able to take money out of those escrow accounts that they were having to hold in abeyance in case they found themselves involved in a liability suit, and have been able to put more money back into their community hospitals, been able to spend money on capital expenses, been able to spend money on nurses' salaries, precisely the types of things you want your small, community, not-for-profit hospital to be doing, rather than just holding money against a day where they might be involved in a large damage suit. 
   So I took the language of the Texas plan and worked so it would fit within our legislative structure here in the House of Representatives, and actually gave this legislation to the ranking member of our Budget Committee, and he had that bill scored by the Congressional Budget Office. So the Texas plan, as applied to the Texas house of representatives, to the entire 50 States, would yield an average savings of $3.8 billion over 5 years.     
   Not a mammoth amount of money, but when you are talking about a $2.99999 trillion budget, this savings would amount to moneys that we could use on any of the other number of spending priorities that we hear so much about in this Congress. 
   And consider this: A study done in 1996 by Stanford University revealed that in the Medicare system alone, the cost of defensive medicine was approximately $28 to $30 billion a year, 10 years ago, Mr. Speaker. I suspect that that number is significantly higher today. Defensive medicine, those additional tests and procedures that are ordered by doctors in order to help them provide a good defense should they have a bad outcome and should the case go to litigation in the courts, again, moneys expended on medical care not for the care of the patient, but to provide the best possible defense for a physician if a case is taken into court. 
   Another consideration is young people getting out of college who are considering a career in the health professions, whether it be medical school, nursing school, dental school, or one of the allied professionals, the current system keeps young people out of the practice of health care for their livelihood because of the burden that we put on them. One thing we have to consider: They are graduating from school with massive amounts of debt, and then immediately upon getting out and emerging on the world and starting into practice, they have to come up with another $100,000 for their liability insurance. It is an untenable position, and it drives young people away from considering a career in health care. 
   One of the things that I think we really need to focus on, getting back to the cover of Texas Medical Association and running out of doctors, part of ensuring that the workforce for the future includes helping younger doctors and younger students with residency programs, one of the strange things about doctors is we do tend to have a  lot of inertia. A lot of us tend to practice very close to where we did our training. Studies have shown that many doctors will stay within 100 miles of where they trained. They like to practice in communities similar to the communities in which they did their training. So it would be a great asset to look at areas in this country where there is high need for certain types of physician specialties, areas that are currently medically underserved, and encourage young doctors to get their training in these locations where they are actually needed. 
   Now, a bill that I am going to introduce, called the Physician Workforce and Graduate Medical Education Enhancement Act, would develop a program that would permit hospitals that do not traditionally operate a residency training program the opportunity to start a residency training program to build a physician workforce of the future. This bill would create a loan fund available to hospitals to create residency training programs where none has operated in the past. The programs would require full accreditation and be generally focused in rural, suburban, inner-urban community hospital locations. 
   On average it costs a hospital $100,000 a year to train a resident, and the cost for smaller hospitals can be prohibitive. Another concern stems from the 1997 congressionally passed balanced budget amendment that set a residency cap that also limits resources to nontraditional residency hospitals such as smaller community hospitals. In my bill the loan amount to any institution would not exceed $1 million, and the loan itself would constitute start-up funding for a new residency program. 
   As we all know, the start-up money is essential. 
   Since Medicare graduate medical education funding can be obtained only when a residency program is firmly established, the cost to start a training program for a smaller, more rural, or suburban hospital can be cost-prohibitive because these hospitals operate on much narrower operating margins. 
   The overall bill would authorize a total of $25 million to be available over 10 years. The fund, of course, would be replenished because these are constructed as loans, and the Health Resources Service Administration may make the loans available to new applicants. These moneys would be repaid, and the residency slots in existing programs would continually work to bring new residents into the program and keep the program self-perpetuating. 
   To be eligible, a hospital must demonstrate that they currently do not operate a residency program, have not operated a residency training program in the past, and that they have secured preliminary accreditation by the American Council on Graduate Medical Education. Additionally, the petitioning hospital must commit to operating a residency program in one of five medical specialties or a combination of specialties: family medicine, internal medicine, emergency medicine, OB-GYN, or general surgery. Again, the hospital may request up to $1 million to assist the establishment of this new residency program, and funding could be used to offset the cost of residents' salaries and benefits. 
   The bill would require that the Health Resources Services Administration study the efficacy of the program in increasing the number of residents in family medicine. The loans would be made available beginning January 1, 2008, and the program would be sunsetted in 10 years' time, in January 2018, unless Congress voted to reauthorize the program. 
   Now, locating young doctors where they are needed is just part of solving the impending physician shortage crisis that will affect the entire health care system. Another aspect that must be considered is training doctors for high-need specialties. 
   My High-Need Physician Specialty Workforce Incentive Act of 2007 will establish a mix of scholarships, loan repayment funds, tax incentives to entice more students to medical school, and create incentives for those students and those newly minted doctors. This program will have an established repayment program for students who agree to go into, again, family medicine, internal medicine, emergency medicine, general surgery, or OB-GYN, and practice in an underserved area. The Health and Human Services Department will administer and promulgate the requirements. The recipients must practice in the prescribed specialty and the prescribed area, which is designated as a medically underserved area, and the practices may include solo or group practices, clinics, public or private nonprofit hospitals. And it will be a 5-year authorization at $5 million a year. 
   The bill would provide additional educational scholarships in exchange for a commitment to serve a public or private nonprofit health facility determined to have a critical shortage of primary care physicians. Such scholarships will be treated as equivalent to those under the National Health Service Corps, and penalties apply for those that take advantage but do not go into one of those practice areas. 
   This will establish the Primary Care Physician Retention and Medical Home Enhancement grants to help ensure that primary care physicians continue to provide coordinated care to patients in underserved areas or high-risk populations. And the reality is we can all think of areas like that back in our home States or, indeed, back in our districts. 
   In other areas such as the Louisiana gulf coast, where so many doctors left after the devastating hurricanes of Katrina and Rita 1 1/2 years ago, it has been very hard on the doctors in this area, very hard to keep doctors in this area, very hard to encourage and entice new doctors to come to the area; and this would be one more tool, one more way, to keep the rather fraying social safety net from becoming completely undone in that area. 
   Every year there would be a report back to Congress about the effectiveness of the program. This would allow us to assess if we are spending our dollars wisely and getting what we thought we would get when we initiated the program. Again, oversight is going to be key to this process. 
   Well, so far in addressing the physician workforce crisis, we have discussed the medical liability, the placement of doctors in locations of greatest need, and the financial concerns of encouraging young people to go into medical school in the first place and to remain in high-need areas in high-need specialties. 
   The next portion of this has to deal with perhaps the largest group of practitioners affected in this country and certainly the still-growing group of patients, our baby-boom generation, within the Medicare program. 
   The baby boomers, and we have already talked about it, as they age and retire, the demand for services has nowhere to go but up. And if the physician workforce trends continue as they are today, which is downward, we may not be talking about funding a Medicare program. We may be talking about what are we going to do to take care of our senior citizens when there is no one there to take care of them? I often tell people if you see a train wreck coming, you have two options. One is to stop the wreck and avert the wreck from happening in the first place; and the other is to run home and get your video camera and be the first to get it up on YouTube. I believe the responsible approach is to avert the crisis in the first place. 
   Year after year there is a reduction in reimbursement payments from the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services to doctors for the services they provide to their Medicare patients. This is not a question of doctors wanting to make more money; it is about a stabilized payment system for the services that are already rendered. And it isn't just affecting doctors. It affects patients. It becomes a real crisis of access. 
   Not a week goes by that I don't get a letter or fax from some physician who says, you know what, I have just had enough, and I am going to retire early. I am no longer going to see Medicare patients in my practice, or I am going to restrict the procedures that I offer to my Medicare patients. Unfortunately, I know this is happening because I saw it in the hospital environment before I left the practice of medicine to come to Congress, but I also hear it in virtually every town hall that I do back in my district. Someone will raise their hand or come up to me after the town hall is over and say, how come on Medicare, when you turn 65, you have to change doctors? And the answer is because their doctor found it  no longer economically viable to continue to see Medicare patients because they weren't able to keep up with the cost of delivering the care. They weren't able to cover the cost of providing the care because of the cuts that are happening year over year in the Medicare reimbursement formula. 
   Now, Medicare payments to physicians are modified annually using a formula called the sustainable growth rate. Because of flaws in the process, the sustainable growth rate formula has mandated physician fee cuts in recent years that have only been moderately averted by last-minute activity by Congress. If no congressional action is implemented, a cut goes through. And if no long-term action is taken, the SGR will continue to mandate fee cuts for physicians. And unlike hospital reimbursement rates, which closely follow the Medicare Economic Index, a cost of living index, if you will, which measures the increasing cost of providing care, physician reimbursements don't do that. In fact, Medicare payments to physicians cover only about 65 percent of the actual cost of providing patient services. Can you imagine any other industry or service or company that would continue in business if they received only 65 percent of what they spent to deliver the service? Not 65 percent of what they needed to make a profit; 65 percent of what they need to simply keep the doors open in the first place. Currently, the sustainable growth rate formula links physician payment updates to the gross domestic product, which has no relationship to the cost of providing patient services. 
   But the simple repeal of the sustainable growth rate formula can't happen, or we are told it can't happen, because it is too cost-prohibitive. Two hundred and eighty billion dollars is what it would cost this year to repeal the sustainable growth rate formula. 
   But perhaps if we approached it as something we could do over time, we could bring that cost level down to an area that is manageable. And paying physicians fairly will extend the careers of many physicians who are now in practice who would either opt out of the Medicare program, seek early retirement, or restrict those procedures that they offer to their Medicare patients. It also has an effect on ensuring an adequate network of doctors available to older Americans in this country that make the transition to the physician workforce in the future. 
   In the physician payment stabilization bill that I will introduce, the SGR formula would be repealed in 2010, 2 years from now, and provide incentive payments based on quality reporting and technology improvements. These incentive payments would be installed to protect practicing physicians against the program cuts that are likely to occur in 2008 and 2009. The incentive payments would be voluntary. No one would be required to participate in a quality program or the technology improvement, but it would be available to those doctors or practices who wanted to offset the proposed cuts that will occur in physician reimbursement in the 2 years until a formal repeal of the SGR happens. 
   Now, I do know from talking to my friends who are physicians and my friends in organized medicine that it is an alarming thought that we would have to wait for any period of time before repeal of the SGR.     
   If we step back and look, in terms of a long-term solution, the only practical approach is, in fact, to deal with it on a long-term basis. The reason we are in the deep depression we find ourselves in is because year over year we've only provided these last-minute fixes, which have only served to exacerbate the problem, not solve the problem. 
   Well, why not just do away with the SGR once and for all and get it done? Remember, the cost for doing that is going to be about $280 billion. One of the problems that we have in Congress is the Congressional Budget Office is the group to which we must petition and the group to which we must look for advice about how much things are going to cost. If we are going to be spending the taxpayers' money, how much are we going to spend, over what time will we spend it? Because of some of the constraints of the Congressional Budget Office, we are not allowed to say, look, we are doing things so much better now within the system that give us credit for that going forward so we can, in fact, reduce that number from $280 billion down to something that is more reasonable. 
   We all saw the Medicare Trustees Report from about 2 weeks ago. It said that in the year 2005, there were 600,000 hospital beds that were not filled as a result of improvements that have occurred because of disease management, because of doctors doing things more efficiently. These are dollars that have been saved out of the part A portion of Medicare, but it's because of work done in the part B part of Medicare, and that is, after all, where we are all focused within the part B world. 
   By postponing the repeal of the SGR by 2 years' time and taking the savings that occur during those next 2 years and applying it back to the SGR formula, we may actually get a number that is doable as far as releasing the SGR and replacing it with the full Medicare economic index so we can pay doctors the same way hospitals, HMOs and drug companies are reimbursed. 
   One of the main thrusts of this bill is to require the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services to look to their top 10 conditions that drive the highest percentage of payment. It's the old Willie Sutton argument: He robbed banks because that's where the money is. Let's look at the top 10 drivers of health care expenditures in this country, and look at ways where we can improve the care that is delivered in those 10 areas, and look to those areas to give us the savings that will, in fact, deliver the benefit towards the ultimate repeal or retirement of the SGR. 
   The same conditions actually apply to the Medicaid program as well. It will be a useful exercise. It helps not only Medicare, but would also help CMS with the Medicaid expenditures as well, and will just help physicians in general provide better care for their patients. 
   It will include some reporting back to doctors and back to patients as to their utilization amounts; these numbers will not be made public generally, but will allow doctors to individually modify their own practices if they see there are ways where they may improve. 
   Health information technology, it is something which, I will admit, I have been slow to come to the table with as far as looking for improvements in health information technology to provide substantial savings. And I will tell you what changed my mind on that. 
   In January of 2006, with our Oversight and Investigations Committee down in New Orleans, Louisiana, to look at the recovery from the hurricane as it impacted the health care system in that part of the world, this is the medical records department at Charity Hospital, one of the venerable teaching institutions in our country. When the city of New Orleans was flooded, these records were completely under water. 
   Now the basement has been all but completely emptied of water. There is probably about a foot of standing water that doesn't show up in the photographs. But look at the records. This is not smoke or soot damage, this is black mold growing on these records. So how do we know that there is a patient in there that is on dialysis waiting for a kidney transplant? We will never know. 
   We couldn't ask anyone to go in there and go through those records, it would be hazardous to their own health. How do we know about where a person was in their cancer treatment? We will never know that information; that information has been lost to the ages. This is the kind of problem that you can get into with paper records. 
   You know, the youngsters of today, the college students of today, indeed, the young physicians of today, they understand this very well. They are connected, they are wired in, they all have flash drives and zip drives. They would no more imagine preparing a term paper for one of their classes and then only keeping one paper copy. No. They've got it on their hard disk. They've got it on a floppy disk. They've got it on a flash drive. They have probably e-mailed it to someone back home. The old adage of ``The dog ate my homework'' just won't wash anymore. We need to evolve into the 21st century when it comes to medical record keeping. 
   It costs money to do this. It is going to require a big push from both the  public and the private sectors. I prefer to think of the bonus payment as being an inducement and enticement for physicians offices to participate in this program. But on the face of it, it's just good medicine, it's just good patient care. 
   Now, we all heard about the troubles at Walter Reed Hospital a few months ago. I went out to Walter Reed shortly after the story broke in the Washington Post, and here is Master Sergeant Blades. And he took me around building 18, and yeah, it was a crummy building. We could certainly have done a lot better than we were doing for our soldiers on medical hold in building 18. 
   But the real thing that bothered Master Sergeant Blades was the fact that they had to wait so long to get in to see someone. And when they did, oftentimes their records that they had worked on and they had prepared and they had organized, sometimes those records, after they delivered them to the appropriate clinic, their records would get lost. His specific complaint to me was, I can spend 20 man-hours putting together my medical record and highlighting the areas that are of significance and importance to me. This goes over to one of the clinics. It sits on someone's desk until it is no longer retrievable, and I have to start all over again. 
   Now, the VA has been very forward thinking in its embrace of electronic medical records and its investment in medical technology. The problem is the Department of Defense medical records do not interface with the VistA system at the Department of Veterans Affairs. So if delivering value to the patient is of paramount importance, it is critical that we make this type of service generally available to our patients. 
   Mr. Speaker, I was also going to address some of the issues on health care transparency; I probably don't have time to do that. I will simply mention that I have introduced a bill dealing with health care transparency that provides for keying off what is happening in the States, and making certain that every State would have at least some level of transparency in health care pricing. 
   In Texas, up on the Web right now, and I realize it is going to go through several different iterations and it will evolve considerably over time, but TXpricepoint.org, available on the Internet, allows patients to compare prices on hospitals in their area. 
   Again, a lot of things we have to consider when we work on the transformation of the health care system in this country. There are good things as far as the public system, there are good things as far as the private system. We have got to be certain that we build on the good things present in both systems, and that we stop doing the things that no longer deliver value to our patients. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF A NATIONAL MEDAL OF HONOR DAY -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I thank the chairman, the gentleman from Missouri, for bringing this concurrent resolution to the floor. 
   This is a resolution that honors the bravest of the brave, the men and women who have gone above and beyond the call of duty, who have risked their lives in fighting for our Nation, indeed, fighting for our basic freedom. 
   Today's resolution pays homage to the basic principles of our military, duty, honor, country. The Medal of Honor recognizes and is emblematic of great courage, selflessness and sacrifice. 
   It is with great pride that I stand here on the floor of Congress today, as Congress is recognizing these extraordinary members of our Armed Services by establishing March 25 as the National Medal of Honor Day. This national day of observance and remembrance is long overdue, and I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this resolution, to vote in favor of our Armed Forces. 
   While a National Medal of Honor Day is a wonderful way to honor these great citizens, I would be remiss if I did not also mention another great endeavor that seeks to honor Medal of Honor recipients. The city of Gainesville, Texas established the Medal of Honor Host City Program in 2001 with this simple mission statement: It shall be the privilege and the responsibility of the city of Gainesville, Texas, to welcome our Nation's Medal of Honor recipients at every available opportunity. The Local Veterans of Foreign Wars, post number 1922, along with the community volunteers and community members, welcome all Medal of Honor recipients with open arms and provides a stipend to cover lodging, food and fuel expenses during their visit. 
   The recipients are invited to attend schools, clubs and local organizations, thereby imparting their own views of patriotism and duty throughout the community. It is truly a remarkable program, and the true beauty of it is that other cities can establish their own Medal of Honor Host City program to further honor and recognize those heroic recipients. 
   Mr. Speaker, to take a line from the Gainesville, Texas mission statement, I feel that it is Congress's privilege and Congress's responsibility to honor the Medal of Honor recipients at every opportunity. With this resolution, and with programs like the Medal of Honor Host City Program, we take a step in fulfilling that most noble and honorable of all missions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (RECOGNIZING ANN RICHARDS' EXTRAORDINARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO TEXAS AND AMERICAN PUBLIC LIFE -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
   Mr. Speaker, it will come as no great surprise that on any issue of policy Ann Richards and I were probably 180 degrees out of phase; but last year, when she received her diagnosis, I sent her a little note telling her that we were thinking about her and praying for her. She sent me a little note back, and I wanted to share that with the House today. 
   She said: ``Thank you for being so thoughtful. 
   ``For someone who has cancer, I'm in great shape. Patience has never been my long suit, but I am learning. I am in my third week of treatment and am taking it one day at a time. The M.D. Anderson Hospital is fabulous. It's a whole lot like `Star Wars' with more interesting machines than Buck Rogers ever imagined. 
   ``Thanks a lot for thinking of me and praying for me. With all that energy directed toward my recovery, how can we miss?'' 
   Mr. Speaker, there wasn't much that Ann Richards and I did agree on, but we both agreed on our love for Texas, and we both agreed we only wanted the best for our State. Texas is proud to have had a Governor like Ann Richards. Although oftentimes we were on opposite sides of the issue, she will be missed in my home State of Texas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM EQUITY ACT -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, later this week, in our Committee on Energy and Commerce's Subcommittee on Health, we will be having a hearing called ``Covering the Uninsured Through the Eyes of a Child, Part Two.'' Now, having sat through part one of this hearing, a hearing dealing with the reauthorization of CHIP funding this year, I really think the title of the hearing should be ``Covering the Uninsured Through the Guise of a Child'' because if some deception is implied in that title, indeed, I believe some deception is taking place within the SCHIP program. 
   Now, most of my colleagues in this body, having heard from medical professionals and hospital groups this past month up here on the Hill, are aware of the need for reauthorizing the Children's Health Insurance Program this year. It is a good program. It has provided needed health insurance to millions of needy children across our country. And both the House and the Senate are discussing funding options. And we are concerned about the rising cost of health care in general but in particular, specifically, the rising cost for the SCHIP program. 
   Fourteen States are going to expect budgetary shortfalls in their SCHIP program. For some of those States, they are their own worst enemy. They are the reason for their own problem. They are using children's funding to cover adults. 
   In fiscal year 2005, the adult enrollment in the SCHIP program exceeded the number of children enrolled in the program in four States: in Arizona we had over 113,000 adults in the program and just over 88,000 children; in the State of Michigan, over 101,000 adults and under 90,000 children; in Minnesota 35,000 adults and just over 5,000 children; in Wisconsin 108,000 adults, just over 57,000 children. 
   Now, why does this matter? Well, if you look at what it costs to cover a child versus what it costs to cover an adult, for every dollar you spend on the adult, you only need to spend about 60 cents on the child. They are generally healthier. A dollar spent on children's health insurance goes a lot farther because children tend to be a healthier population, and if you provide them a modicum of preventative care, they are going to be healthier still. And after all, if we can attenuate a disease in its early stages in childhood, we will avoid the larger expenditures of allowing that disease to go on unchecked over years. 
   I can think of a number of diseases that would fall into this category. Childhood obesity immediately comes to mind, an area where we need to devote significant time, energy, and resources. But if we are spending the money elsewhere, we are not going to be able to spend it on the children. 
   And the real deception, in my mind, is that this is a method of expanding a single-payer government-run health care system through the SCHIP program. And, again, that subverts the entire concept of why this program was created in the first place almost 10 years ago. 
   I would ask my colleagues to remember a dollar spent on a nonpregnant adult is a dollar that is not spent on a needy child. Indeed, States should prioritize spending on needy children and live within their annual allocations instead of looking to other States from which to take their moneys when their programs run a shortfall. 
   To ensure that States are not using children-specific funding for nonpregnant adults, I have introduced H.R. 1013, the SCHIP Equity Act. There are four principles to the bill: 
   It prohibits future HHS approval of any State waiver submitted by a State for SCHIP coverage of nonpregnant adults. 
   The bill terminates portions of State waivers that HHS has approved that extend coverage to nonpregnant adults. 
   States must eliminate coverage of nonpregnant adults by January 1, 2008. 
   And if the coverage of a nonpregnant adult was part of a multipurpose waiver, those components not dealing with the coverage of the nonpregnant adult will remain in effect for the duration of the waiver. 
   SCHIP has been a success story for so many States, for so many children. I am asking you to consider supporting my bill, H.R. 1013. 
   I want to remind all Members of Congress that ``C'' in CHIP stands for ``children.'' Let's keep it that way. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (GENERAL LEAVE -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas for yielding. 
   You've got to wonder why we're here today. It almost seems like another episode of that Bill Murray movie ``Groundhog Day'' where people went through the same thing over and over again. 
   When this last session of Congress ended in the middle of the night the  end of December, I think we all had seasonal affective disorders. We went home, but there was a new year and a new day was dawning and a genuine sense of bipartisanship that we were going to work together to have things done. 
   So what's the first thing we consider? A consideration of the veto override of the SCHIP bill which we voted on again and again and again. Is this the spirit of bipartisanship that we can expect out of the Democratic leadership, as we try to craft legislation to help stave off what seems to be a serious downturn in the economy? 
   Once again, here we are on the floor of the House being forced by the Democratic leadership to cast a vote that will serve the sole purpose of helping one side of the aisle score political points against the President. Do we need to reauthorize this program? No. We already did that. The CBO said we did it, and we funded it through March of 2009. 
   Then why are we here? The only reason I can think of is the fact that next week we are going to hear from the President on the State of the Union Address, and after that, the Democrats have decided that maybe a little more political theater is in order to influence the press coverage of the President's address. 
   So that's why we're here, not to do the people's work, to influence the press after the President's State of the Union Address. 
   This bill was a flawed bill when it came to our committee. My chairman referenced the 43 Republicans, but no Republican helped craft this legislation. We were not allowed to work on this bill in subcommittee. Our committee process was a sham. This bill was written in the dark of night in the Speaker's office, and no Republican participated. I dare say that no one on your side really understood what was in that bill, and we get it back again and again and again, and at the same time the American people are wondering when we are going to do the work that they sent us here to do.  
   Madam Speaker, one of my favorite movies is a delightful comedy called Groundhog Day. In this movie, Bill Murray plays a local television weatherman who gets trapped in a strange little town while covering a news story about a locally famous groundhog. But instead of being able to return to his home and get to the other business that he needs to attend to, Bill Murray's character is forced to repeat the same day over and over and over again. No matter what he says or what he does, every day he wakes up just to relive the same day over again. 
   And, Madam Speaker, after being involved in the SCHIP debate this Congress, I know that most of my colleagues on this side of the aisle are now able to relate to this movie in a very personal way. It doesn't matter what we seem to say or what seems to happen with this issue--for some reason the Democratic leadership will bring us down here to the floor of the House to have the same debate and to vote on the same bill time after time after time. 
   Once again, we are being forced by the Democratic leadership of the House to cast a vote that will serve the sole purpose of helping Democrats score political points against the President. 
   Do we need to reauthorize the SCHIP program? No, we already reauthorized through March of 2009. 
   Do we need to increase funding for the SCHIP program? No, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has already said that S. 2499 that was signed into law on December 29, 2007, has already fully funded the SCHIP program through March of 2009. 
   Then why are we here, Madam Speaker? Well, the only reason I can think of for this vote is the fact that the President is going to be delivering the State of the Union Address next Monday, and the Democrats have decided that they need a little more political theater in order to influence the press coverage of the President's address. 
   Well, Madam Speaker, we're going to sustain the President's veto today, and we're going to do it because the President did the right thing by vetoing this poorly written expansion of Washington-controlled, bureaucrat run healthcare that leaves the poorest kids behind. And anybody who cares about needy children can vote against this bad bill proudly. 
   I'm both proud and concerned that Republicans had no part in writing this legislation. Proud because this bill is an embarrassment. Concerned because we're all supposed to be legislating on behalf of children, and as everybody knows, no Republican member of this House was even asked for an opinion, much less invited to participate in writing the Democratic SCHIP bill. 
   I don't even think the Democrats who wrote it understand what they've done. I challenge the supporters of this bill to look people in the eye and say that they understand all of the provisions that are actually in this bill. Because I have some questions for you about some very troubling provisions in this bill. 
   Madam Speaker, it would be a compliment to say that the so-called process which produced this bill is an abuse of our democratic system of government. Yet, I'm sure that some will show up here with a handful of talking points from your Democratic staffers who actually constructed this legislation, and you will explain to us that it is not an abomination at all, but a wondrous triumph of bipartisanship. 
   Give me the name of one Republican in the entire House of Representatives who directly participated in these discussions. Name just one. 
   I know that the authors of this bill certainly did not consult with either Mr. Barton or myself; I know that they have not included any members of the Republican leadership in the House; and I'm not aware of a single Republican member of the Energy and Commerce Committee or the Ways and Means Committee being invited to participate in this process. 
   And although we were excluded from the negotiations and the Democratic leadership has repeatedly refused to hold a legislative hearing on this bill, we have learned a few facts from the official projections produced by the Congressional Budget Office, and from what I've read, this bill isn't something that I could ever support. 
   For example, we know that the vast majority of the people added to the SCHIP program under the Democrats' bill will either already have private health insurance or they live in families with incomes too high to be eligible for SCHIP coverage today. 
   In fact, the Congressional Budget Office projects that H.R. 3963 will lead to over 1.2 million new enrollees being added to SCHIP as a result of an ``expansion of SCHIP and Medicaid eligibility to new populations.'' This means that these 1.2 million children live in families whose incomes are too high to qualify for the current SCHIP program. On the other hand, CBO projects that only 800,000 currently SCHIP eligible kids will be enrolled as a result of H.R. 3963. This means that 50 percent more higher-income kids will be enrolled than currently SCHIP eligible kids. 
   And who will be paying for this expansion of SCHIP eligibility to higher-income families? Well, according to the Congressional Research Service, the vast majority of the $70 billion in additional tobacco tax revenues will come from low-income families. In fact, the Congressional Research Service said that tobacco taxes are ``the most regressive of the federal taxes.'' 
   So, with H.R. 3963, the Democrats really are taxing the poor in order to give to the rich. 
   In their defense, I guess it is difficult for the Democratic leadership to know exactly what is in their own bill since it has neither been subject to a single legislative hearing nor conferenced by the House and the Senate. 
   Unfortunately, we don't know when the Democrats are going to stop playing politics with the health of low-income children and begin the process of working with Republicans in a bipartisan manner to produce a long-term reauthorization of the SCHIP program. I hope that time comes soon, and when it does, I stand ready to work with them. As it stands now, I urge all Members to reject this cynical ploy and vote no.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (RIC WILLIAMSON -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I come to the floor of the House this afternoon to remember one of the most dedicated public servants from the State of Texas we lost on December 30 of this year. 
   Ric Williamson was a member of the Texas Transportation Commission and served as that body's Chair that oversees statewide activities for the Texas Department of Transportation. He was appointed to that position in March of 2001 by Governor Rick Perry and in January of 2004 became the chairman of the Texas Transportation Commission. 
   Prior to his appointment, he served in the Texas State Legislature from 1985 to 1988. Numerous professional and legislative accomplishments are attributed to Ric Williamson, and many awards from the Texas media, including twice being recognized as one of the 10 best legislators in the Texas State Legislature in 1989 and 1991. 
   Ric was born in Abilene, Texas, and graduated with a B.A. degree from the University of Texas in 1974. He later founded his own natural gas production company. He made his home in Weatherford, Texas, with his wife, Mary Ann. He has three beautiful daughters, Melissa, Katherine and Sara, who spoke so eloquently on behalf of their father in the memorial service that we held this past January 3. Ric has two grandchildren. Most recently, his grandson was born at the beginning of December of this past year. 
   Chairman Williamson brought a sense of purpose, a sense of vision, and a sense of urgency that had not previously been present in the State of Texas when it came to issues regarding transportation. He established a strategic plan, he set real goals, and then he did everything within his power to meet those goals. 
   He wanted to reduce congestion. He wanted to improve safety. He wanted to expand economic opportunity, increase the value of the assets in the Texas highway system, and clean the air. 
   One of his greatest legacies was to empower local leaders to make local  transportation decisions. The best example of this empowerment is the State Highway 121 Project in my district of the Dallas/Fort Worth area. This brought over $3 billion in highway construction funds to north Texas. At a time when the rest of Texas and, indeed, many other areas of the Nation have money only to put towards maintenance, we have money available for new construction because of Ric's vision. 
   He wasn't always easy to live with, he wasn't always easy to work with, but you always knew where you stood with Ric Williamson; you were never left guessing. 
   He was more than just a leader for Texas; he helped make Texas a leader for the Nation. The United States Department of Transportation now looks toward Texas as a model for other States to use to employ some of those innovative solutions to their challenging problems. And that was, in whole part, due to Ric's unique vision for the State of Texas. 
   Shortly after Ric Williamson's death, the Federal Highway Administrator Richard Capka said, ``He helped pave the way for some of the Nation's most innovative transportation projects, and he is largely responsible for bringing highway financing for Texas and the rest of the Nation into the 21st century.'' He got Texans thinking. He got other Americans thinking on a broad and deep level about issues regarding transportation in a way that probably had never been done before. 
   During the memorial service for Ric Williamson, and many people got up and spoke on his behalf, it was frequently brought out how Ric Williamson regarded politics as a full contact sport. He would go at it with everything he had. And again, you always knew where you stood with Ric Williamson and he wasn't always easy to live with. But Ric Williamson believed that these discussions should take place within the light of day, not behind closed doors, not in some smoke-filled room. So, it's to his credit that he pushed these ideas in the State of Texas, but it was never done in secret; it was never done behind some veil. Everyone always knew where Ric Williamson was and what he was doing. 
   He will always be remembered by his friends and associates as a true champion for all things Texan. He was unafraid to challenge the status quo. He was highly regarded for bringing innovative ideas to provide safe, economic, and reliable transportation to improve the quality of daily lives of all Texans. 
   On a strictly personal level, Ric remained a patient mentor to me, a steadfast friend, and I will greatly miss him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (FOOD SAFETY AND PRODUCT RECALL -- (House of Representatives - November 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. This evening I come to the floor to talk about a growing and disturbing trend of food and consumer product safety recalls, and this danger is very real. The danger has been widely documented and discussed in the media. It's been widely documented and discussed in committee hearings, in our committee, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, discussed around the water cooler at work, kitchen tables around the country, and almost nightly on the ``Lou Dobbs Show.'' 
   And what does this mean, recall after recall after recall all summer long? What does this mean for average Americans? It means that parents are afraid that their children are playing with lead-contaminated train sets. It means that parents are afraid that magnets or toys and charms may cause internal damage if their child accidentally swallows them. It means that families are afraid that the food they feed their pets may actually have plastic in it. It means that people are afraid that their toothpaste may contain antifreeze. It means that people are afraid that the fish they serve to their families may contain dangerous levels of antibiotics. 
   It is seemingly without end, and people are afraid about the source of their products and the dangers, and rightfully so. 
   People are afraid. They're afraid of the defective products being imported into our country. And, Mr. Speaker, it seems like almost all of the trouble focuses around a single country, the People's Republic of China. 
   Consumer health and well-being are endangered on two fronts: the food we eat, the goods we use. 
   I want to use some of my time to discuss both fronts and what we in Congress are doing and should be doing to protect American families from harmful products. 
   First, considering the issue of consumer product safety recalls, it seems like the Nation has turned its attention on to this issue. Every time you turn on the TV, you open a newspaper, you learn about yet another consumer product safety recall. 
   People are generally concerned about the issue of recalls; and many people, myself included, are concerned about the source of the recalls since it appears that the majority of the recalls are coming from the People's Republic of China. 
   Just last night, nine new recalls alone were announced, including recalled products that had lead-contaminated paint on their toys. As a parent, as a physician, one recall was extremely disturbing. According to the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, an e-mail notification that I received last night read: ``Spin Master Recalls Aqua Dots--Children Became Unconscious After Swallowing the Beads.'' It's a pretty innocent looking toy, and if my kids were little, I'm sure they would have loved this toy. It looks innocent. But this product is truly a wolf in sheep's clothing. And the recall notification, I encourage everyone to sign up for the notification at www.cpsc.gov, the Web site listed the injuries caused by these beads. And I quote: ``The Consumer Product Safety Commission has received two reports over the last several days of children swallowing Aqua Dots. A 20-month-old child swallowed several dozen beads, he became dizzy, vomited several times before slipping into a comatose state for a period of time, was hospitalized, and has since recovered. A second child also vomited and slipped into a comatose state and was hospitalized for 5 days.'' 
   This morning it was reported in the Dallas Morning News, my local newspaper, and other news outlets, that Aqua Dots were linked to rohypnol. Now, you may have heard of rohypnol in the past. Rohypnol gained some notoriety as the ``date rape'' drug. And according to ABC news, scientists say a chemical coating on the beads, when ingested, metabolizes rohypnol, the so-called date rape drug, gamma hydroxy butyrate, GHB. When eaten, the compound made from common and easily  available ingredients can induce unconsciousness, seizures, drowsiness, coma and death. 
   While it is not yet clear how this chemical wound up in a child's product, it is clear where it was made: in the People's Republic of China. In fact, eight out of the nine recalled products announced just last night were from China. The other recalled product was from Mexico. 
   Mr. Speaker, Christmas is coming. Christmas lights, Christmas sounds, Christmas music, Christmas shopping. I cannot help but think there would be a huge market for a ``Made in America'' label on the toys and goods parents and consumers are out looking for this Christmas season. I encourage retailers to stock as many ``Made in America'' products as they can. You might even make it in Texas and put a little Texas flag on there. I bet that would be a big seller. 
   The majority of the products that are being recalled this year were made in China. And, Mr. Speaker, quite honestly, I've made a decision. I'm treating that ``Made in China'' label as a warning label, and I've made a personal decision to try not to buy anything made in China, although it's extremely hard given the penetration that Chinese goods have in our consumer markets. Given all the circumstances, it seems like the right thing to do, the safe thing to do for my family. I feel certain that other American families have made similar decisions. In fact, Mr. Speaker, I bet the Lou Dobbs family is one of those families. 
   Now, this concern about imported products is real and has been substantiated with real data. The United States Consumer Product Safety Commission, which is tasked with the job of trying to safeguard our society from unreasonable risk of injury and death associated with consumer products, informed me that in fiscal year 2007, a record-breaking 472 consumer products were recalled for safety reasons. Of the 472 recalls, 60 percent were manufactured in the People's Republic of China. Mr. Speaker, 60 percent of all recalled products this past year were imported from China. 
   Furthermore, of the 472 total consumer product recalls, 61 of those recalls affected our children, our most innocent and vulnerable members of society. Sixty-one consumer products were toys. And how many of those products were manufactured in the Republic of China, you might ask? Well, I'm glad you asked, Mr. Speaker, because that figure is even more staggering. The United States Consumer Product Safety Commission estimated that over 90 percent of the toy recalls were made in China. So I guess we really shouldn't have been too surprised last night when eight out of the nine listed recalls were manufactured in China. This is now clearly becoming a common business practice, part of the business model for Chinese toys. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, I'm just a simple country doctor, and I don't pretend to understand everything that goes on up here in Washington; but I am asking what we in Washington can do to help Americans protect themselves and their families. Let's look at just a few of the product recalls from the month of October. 
   For the safety of our families, we've got to get to the bottom of the cause behind all of these recalls. I am on the Commerce Trade and Consumer Protection Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over this issue; and our committee is investigating and working on the problem. And over the next several weeks, we're going to be working on additional legislation on the issue. We have passed several bills recently dealing with specific issues of consumer product safety. We passed a bill dealing with the safety of swimming pools, and a bill that I was actually able to amend to include ornamental pools, since an ornamental pool had claimed four lives in one of my home cities in Fort Worth, Texas. 
   The House Energy and Commerce Committee introduced bipartisan legislation last week that will strengthen the consumer product safety system in this country, H.R. 4040. For those keeping score at home, H.R. 4040, the Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act, along with 50 Members, original cosponsors of this legislation. The legislation was introduced in the Commerce Trade and Consumer Protection Subcommittee, and we had a hearing on the bill. And we have been promised that it will go through regular order, and all Members will have an opportunity to actually comment and amend the bill as it goes through subcommittee process and the full committee process. This is the way, Mr. Speaker, it should always be, the way that we formulate and work on legislation. I certainly thank the leadership of the House Energy and Commerce Committee for being committed to the legislative process. How refreshing after the donnybrook we saw with the State Children's Health Insurance Program this summer. 
   The House version is a bipartisan effort, and I commend Chairman Dingell and I commend Ranking Member Barton for their leadership in getting this bill through the committee. I would also like to commend the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission Commissioner, Chairwoman Nancy Nord, for her honest assistance for the bill. We asked for technical assistance and constructive criticism, and it was provided to us. The other Chamber asked for the same assistance with their bill, and she provided the same honesty. And for going to the trouble of providing that same honesty, she was, I think, unjustly criticized. The difference was that some of the Members of that Chamber and of our own Chamber didn't like her answers, so they called for her resignation. 
   Unlike those Members, I appreciate and I welcome the candor of the chairwoman. Because Chairwoman Nord wasn't afraid to speak the truth about her own agency's needs, the House has been able to do what the Senate was not, craft legislation that will give the commissioner real tools needed to keep Americans safe from unreasonable dangers and consumer products. 
   Now, a week ago, the Speaker of the House held a press conference and called for the resignation of Chairwoman Nord simply for speaking her mind, exercising her free speech rights. In my opinion, this criticism was a disgrace to this body and an embarrassment to the legislative process. I often feel that an imperial speakership that likes to govern by edict really has no place in this House. But Chairwoman Nord withstood the criticism and stood in the eye of the storm. 
   Former Prime Minister Tony Blair once said the art of leadership is sometimes saying no. It's easy to say yes, and sometimes you just have to say no. Chairwoman Nord was a true leader and was able to say no to legislation that she knew would be harmful to the country. There are times we need leaders like that. 
   Now, turning back to H.R. 4040, the Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act, there are a lot of topics, there are a lot of issues on the table, including enhancing the commissioner's recall authority. And I firmly believe we've got to improve the U.S. Product Safety Commission's ability to notify consumers about dangerous products more quickly and on a broader scope. 
   I'm concerned that there is a large universe of people and associations that are not receiving the information about product recalls in a timely manner. As we all know, products are recalled because they have been found to have an element of danger, otherwise the recall wouldn't take place. The danger is to the consumer, and they need to be immediately discarded. Now, nonprofits, like Salvation Army, Good Will, Christian Community Action, located in my home county of Denton County, they provide invaluable resources to the communities that they serve. And often these nonprofits run secondhand retail shops to additionally help some of the neediest members of society. But I have been informed, when I've questioned the nonprofits in my area, that, through no fault of their own, they're unaware of many of the recalls when they occur. Therefore, the fear is that they may inadvertently sell recalled products to families and individuals. So I'm currently working with the Consumer Product Safety Commission to try to close that gap. 
   I'm also working with the Consumer Product Safety Commission on another idea, and we'll talk in more detail in just a little bit, but I introduced legislation dealing with food imports that will give the Food and Drug Administration a big red button to push to be able to stop dangerous foods from entering the country. 
   At our hearing this week, I asked Chairwoman Nord if she had the same  authority that my bill would give the FDA, did she have the same authority for the Consumer Product Safety Commission, and the answer was no. So over the next couple of weeks I'm going to be working with the commission and the commissioner to incorporate that idea into the bill as it goes through the regular committee process.     
   While we continue to try to close the gap through legislation, I strongly encourage Members of Congress to sign up for product recall alerts. 
   Mr. Speaker, I know we don't address the C Span audience directly in their living rooms but if I could address the C Span audience in their living room I would encourage them to go to the Consumer Product Safety Commission website and sign up for the product recall alerts. It is free. It is easy. And it can save lives. If you have access to an e-mail account and to the Internet, all you have to do is simply go to the website, go to the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission's home page, which is www.cpsc.gov, Consumer Product Safety Commission, go to their website and they will direct you how to sign up for free recall and safety news. The website again, www.cpsc.gov. 
   The Consumer Product Safety Commission also has a Neighborhood Safety Network which is for organizations, civic-minded individuals, to help disseminate information about recalls and posters to members of society who may not be aware of the recalls. 
   Mr. Speaker, do you know what? This type of education can save lives. Unfortunately, though, certain groups of Americans, the elderly, urban and rural low-income families, some minority groups often don't hear about the safety messages from the government. So some additional outreach is needed. And it is critical, because when people go to yard sales, when people go to garage sales, when people go to Internet resellers, they need the ability to have this information and discern whether or not a product is on the recall list and is in fact unsafe for them to bring in their homes. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, although rules of the House do not permit me to address people directly, but if I could, I would ask that they help make their community safer by getting the word out, getting the word out about recalls. I am a member of the Neighborhood Safety Network, and we will disseminate information about the recalls vie my website, www.house.gov/burgess. 
   Let's talk a little bit, in the time remaining, about food safety because that is an issue that is critical. And again it is in the news. Has there been any attention at all paid by the United States Congress to the food we eat? Well, again, I am glad you asked because there has been a lot of attention paid in Congress regarding the safety of the food we eat. On the Energy and Commerce Committee, we are pursuing an aggressive investigation, and then we will move on to subsequent legislation, to try to correct this problem. As a member of the Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee, we have taken an active role in investigating the safety of our Nation's food supply. In August, a bipartisan team of investigators was sent by our committee to China to see, first-hand if they could delineate some of the causes of the problem. In the committee staff report, the investigators came to the following conclusions about their trip and their investigation thus far. Quoting directly from the staff report, ``Number one, it would appear that the Chinese food supply chain does not meet international safety standards. In fact, it is responsible for very serious domestic Chinese food poisoning outbreaks. 
   ``Number 2, the Chinese Government appears determined to avoid embarrassing food safety outbreaks in exports markets due to the damaging and potentially lasting effect this would have upon their `Made in China' branding.'' 
   It seems like that has happened any way. 
   ``Number 3, the lack of meaningful internal regulation of farming and food processing in China, the advanced development of the document counterfeiting industry, and the willingness of some entrepreneurs in both China and the United States to smuggle foodstuffs that do not meet quality standards, necessitates a much more vigorous program of inspection and laboratory testing in China and in this country and at the U.S. ports of entry than the Food and Drug Administration has been able or willing to pursue to date.'' 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, these are important conclusions, and yes we must not simply watch the problem worsen. We must be willing to handle the problem head on and transform the Food and Drug Administration into an agency that can fully cope with the importation problems of the 21st century. The Energy and Commerce Committee is doing their part to do just that. In addition to the staff trips to China, we are in the middle of a series of five hearings to discuss the topic, can the FDA, can the Food and Drug Administration assure the safety and security of our Nation's food supply? 
   What have we learned so far? Well, let's recapitulate. At the hearing on July 17, 2007, on this very topic, former FDA Associate Commissioner William Hubbard testified that in 1999, the Food and Drug Administration drafted a legislative proposal which would have given the Food and Drug Administration the authority to require foreign countries to take more responsibility for the food that they send to the United States. The agency's proposal would have allowed the Food and Drug Administration to embargo a given food from a given country if there were repeated instances of food being found contaminated when it arrived in the United States. Well, that seems pretty simple, to embargo a given food from a given country if there were repeated instances of that food being found contaminated when it arrived in our country, when it arrived in the United States. 
   Countries that sent safe food have no reason to be concerned. They would be unaffected. But countries that demonstrated a pattern of disregard for United States law and safety standards are going to have to increase their oversight of food exported from their country. 
   Now, unfortunately, Congress did not accept this recommendation in 1999. And the situation with imported foods has gone from bad to worse to simply awful. Congress now has a chance to examine the problem and consider recommendations on how to solve the problem. Mr. Speaker, the world was a different place in 1999. It was difficult to anticipate the acceleration of foreign products, how rapidly the acceleration of foreign products coming into our country would occur. Was the safety of food products from foreign countries not a priority for Congress back in 1999? Well, I am sure it was but not nearly as much as it should have been. 
   Why we have allowed this problem to persist when we know how much harm these unsafe products have the potential to cause? We may not be able to answer that question, but as I stand here tonight, I will tell you, it is absolutely a priority of mine, and I hope a priority of my committees that we intend to do something about it. 
   On October 11, the Energy and Committee Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held the third part of a five-part series of hearings on the Food and Drug Administration's ability to assure the safety and security of our Nation's food supply. 
   According to testimony given by Mr. David Nelson, the senior investigator for the Energy and Commerce Committee, currently the Food and Drug Administration does not go over and see if the products that are produced in China are done so under the same standards that we expect those products to be produced in the United States. These are the products that are produced in China and then sent over here for consumption, the products that Americans will be consuming, and they're 
    not produced under American standards. 
   The ranking member of our subcommittee, Ed Whitfield from Kentucky, asked Mr. Nelson that, if he were speaking to a group and a member of the audience raised their hand and asked how safe is it for consumers to consume the products produced in China, he said, ``Well, you're taking your chances on any imported food from China.'' 
   Well, we can't act like that. America has to have the authority to prohibit these foods from coming into our country if they're not safe. We have to be able to stop those foods on which our  consumers would be taking a chance. It's not worth it. 
   Chairman Dingell, the full committee chairman, asked Mr. Nelson whether or not the Food and Drug Administration can protect the United States citizen from unsafe imports with the resources that they currently have. 
   His answer: ``That would be an emphatic no.'' 
   Not just ``no'' but an emphatic ``no.'' 
   When I got my chance to question, I asked him while they were over in China, they were there for several days, perhaps a couple of weeks, did they have occasion to eat anything. And he smiled and said, yes, they did. I said, Were you worried at all? And he said, yes, he was. 
   Fortunately our committee staff weathered that, put themselves in harm's way and they weathered that trip okay, although I think some of them did get a little ill, no one got severely ill, which is actually fortunate. 
   We had a witness come before the committee and during my questioning of Mr. James Rice, the Vice President and Country Manager of Tyson Food in China, he was just talking about the problem, I said, Do you look for problems? In your policies and procedures while you're in country in China, does it cause you to look for problems from Chinese suppliers? And he said, of course it does. And I said, Do you ever find a problem with a Chinese supplier? He said, oh, yeah, we sure do. 
   So when you find a problem with a Chinese supplier, do you get on the phone and do you call other companies that are over there working in businesses like yours? Do you kind of send out a little e-mail alert, hey, watch out for this supplier, he has some really bad chicken wings coming your way? 
   And the answer was, no, we don't do that. He explained to me that because Tyson was using local Chinese suppliers and the products were mostly for the Chinese market, they didn't feel that it was necessary to do that. So in essence there would be no dialogue whatsoever. 
   Mr. Rice told me that if there were persistent problems from one supplier, no one would alert the others to this problematic supplier and, probably more frighteningly, they wouldn't pick up the phone and call the local Food and Drug Administration inspectors that were in country and were responsible for assuring the safety of products that are going to be shipped into this country. There is no system in place to let other suppliers or, indeed, the Food and Drug Administration itself know that someone is significantly misbehaving, that someone is behaving in a criminal manner. 
   That's a serious, serious problem. 
   Mr. Speaker, it was important that I introduce legislation that relates to this 1999 proposal and H.R. 3967, the Imported Food Safety Act, was introduced a few weeks ago. And I firmly believe, firmly believe that the FDA needs the ability and the explicit authority to immediately stop dangerous foods and products from coming into this country. 
   It's a pretty simple concept. Think of it like this. You got all this stuff, all this food coming into this country on a big giant conveyor belt. And when the FDA finds a bad apple on that belt, they need to be able to push a big red button that says Stop on it and immediately stop that bad apple from continuing into the line of commerce in this country. 
   The legislation that I introduced would give the Food and Drug Administration a big red button to push that would stop the food from coming into this country. The idea is so simple that I don't understand why it hasn't been enacted previously. 
   If this is enacted, the Food and Drug Administration would have the authority to embargo a specific food from a specific country if there were episodes of repetitive violation of United States food safety standards or if the food was found to be contaminated. Quite frankly, we've got to be able to stop countries from sending harmful food products into the United States. So H.R. 3967 will allow us to finally take control of the food that is being sent to America. And, Mr. Speaker, it would send a pretty strong message to countries that in the past have sent harmful products to the United States: Solve the problem on your end because we mean business on our end. 
   After a summer of recall upon recall upon recall, it is time. It is time that Congress take this matter into its own hands. I for one am no longer going to tolerate hearing a different news story every night about a new and dangerous product coming into our country from the People's Republic of China. 
   The Health Subcommittee of which I am also a member had a legislative hearing on September 26 regarding Chairman Dingell's bill, H.R. 3610. Having reviewed this legislation, I think the intentions are good and I look forward to working with the chairman on this issue. Clearly I don't support every provision but I do support the spirit of the proposed legislation. I believe we need to look toward how other Federal agencies have dealt with this issue and whether or not it would be appropriate to give the Food and Drug Administration similar authorities. 
   According to the Government Accountability Office, 15 Federal agencies collectively administer 30 different laws related to food safety. The Food and Drug Administration, which is part of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, and the Food Safety and Inspection Service, which is part of the United States Department of Agriculture, together comprise the majority of both the total funding and the total staffing of the government's food safety regulatory system. However, food safety laws vary greatly from agency to agency and not all foods are treated equally. 
   For instance, the United States Department of Agriculture, which has jurisdiction over meat, poultry and eggs, has an established equivalency determination standard for those foods. 
   What is equivalency, you might ask? I'm glad you did ask. 
   On October 11 at the third Oversight and Investigation hearing on the FDA's ability to assure the safety and security of our Nation's food supply, the Undersecretary for Food Safety at the United States Department of Agriculture, Dr. Richard Raymond, gave the following definition: 
   ``Equivalency is the foundation of our system of imports. It recognizes that an exporting country can provide an appropriate level of food safety, even if those measures are different from those applied here at home. The Food Safety and Inspection Service has always required an assessment of foreign inspection systems before those nations can export their products to the United States. This prior review is mandated by our laws, which originally required that a foreign system be `equal to' our system before the foreign product can be admitted.''     
   He further went on to state, ``An exporting country has the burden of proving that its system is equivalent to our system if that country wishes to export that product to the United States.'' 
   Now I understand, I understand that applying this system of equivalency that is currently employed by the United States Department of Agriculture, implying that more stringent requirement to the Food and Drug Administration, which, in fairness, has about an 80 percent jurisdiction of all food compared to the roughly 20 percent of the United States Department of Agriculture, that is going to be hard. That is going to be difficult. 
   Currently, only 33 countries are eligible to ship meat and/or poultry products to the United States. If the exact standard that the United States Department of Agriculture employs was used by the Food and Drug Administration, it would drastically change and some people would even say it would cripple the food import system if, if there were not enough resources to support it. That's why the resource aspect, the staffing aspect becomes so critical. 
   Mr. Speaker, former Speaker Newt Gingrich in his book on Transformation lists as his second principle of transformation: Real change requires real change. This is a time for real change. This system should be drastically altered. Consider this: In 2005, 15 percent of the overall volume of U.S. food consumption was imported. Between 1996 and 2006, the amount of U.S. imports of agriculture and seafood products from all countries increased by 42 percent. In the last decade, the volume of FDA regulated imports has tripled. Chinese imports to the United States have increased more rapidly  than the global average, and between the years of 1996 to 2006 the volume of import of Chinese agriculture and seafood products increased by 346 percent. China is now the third largest exporter of agriculture and seafood products to the United States, only behind our neighbor to the north and our neighbor to the south. 
   So perhaps our food import system should, should undergo real change. It should undergo significant change. The Food and Drug Administration was created in a time when we were still domestically growing the majority of our foods here in this country. We have got real issues here at home to deal with regarding our food regulatory system, but at least we have a regulatory system here in this country to deal with the problem. 
   This is not the case for all the countries from which we receive food. It seems that it would be common sense that we would only import food from a country if they can prove that their products are as safe as ours. Yet, only the United States Department of Agriculture can require this. 
   Let's think about this for a minute: USDA, 20 percent; FDA, 80 percent stringent controls on the 20 percent far less stringent controls on the 80 percent. Kind of seems like an imbalance, Mr. Speaker. Now it seems to me to be very arbitrary that the system the United States Department of Agriculture can employ is so much tougher than what the Food and Drug Administration can employ. 
   At the end of the day the American consumer doesn't know whether that food has been checked and regulated by USDA or FDA. The final common pathway, the end target is the kitchen table. When it goes from farm to fork, people don't consider what regulatory agency has had jurisdiction over that food, especially if it came from another country. We don't discriminate as Americans about the food, where it comes from and which agency has the regulatory control over that food. You know, it's almost a little curious that Congress does. Congress set forth dual standards and Congress must have a candid conversation and discussion with itself on whether or not we need to make these two systems, the United States Department of Agriculture 20 percent, Food and Drug Administration, 80 percent, whether or not we need to make those two jurisdictions perhaps more comparable. 
   Now Chairman Dingell's food safety bill is tentatively scheduled to be marked up at both the subcommittee level and the full committee level later this month. I don't know if we will have time. I hope we are able to do it before the end of the year, but the legislative year is rapidly passing us by with each successive day and I hope that we can get that work done because I think it is critically important. It's my goal to encourage this frank conversation at the committee level, and hopefully Members on both sides of the dais will continue to have input on this critically important issue. 
   As we all know, this system, our system works best, and we have the most effective legislation if our bills are allowed to go through the normal process, if they are allowed to go through regular order. I implore the leadership, implore the leadership to allow this important piece of legislation to go through the normal process. Don't rush it through, don't jam it through. We saw what happened to the State Children's Health Insurance Program when that process was circumvented. Did we save any time delivering a State Children's Health Insurance Program to the children of America by jamming it through at the end of July and jamming it through in September and trying to jam it through in the early part of October? No. We didn't save any time. We are now 2 months passed the time that we should have reauthorized that legislation and, quite frankly, no resolution is in sight. That is no way to run an airline, that is no way to run the United States Congress. 
   I implore the leadership, let's stick to the regular legislative process and let this legislation work its way through the committee. Let it be improved by the committee. There's some of the best and brightest minds in the United States Congress that sit on both sides of the dais on the Energy and Commerce Committee. Some of the biggest brain firepower in this Congress sits on that committee. Don't circumvent the committee process, don't cut them out of the process. You don't serve the American peoples' interests when you do that, you don't serve congressional interests when you do that. Quite frankly, leadership does itself a huge disservice when it continues to do that. You're not scoring points politically and certainly not scoring points with the American people. 
   So let's not allow the issue of protecting our families from harmful and dangerous goods coming in from other countries to become a debate of one political party versus the other. It's something that I am certain holds resonance in the minds of us all. Realistically, we do our best work when we work together, and that is that the American people realistically sent us here to do. We need to work together effectively, solve this crisis now. It ought to be a priority for everyone in this body, regardless of their political party. 
   Just this week the President's working group on Import Safety presented their proposal to both the President and Congress. I wish the working group had been able to get their proposal together at a little bit earlier date, but better late than never. I do believe they have presented many sound policies, many sound ideas, and we should incorporate some of these ideas when we are formulating our own legislation. 
   I am still reviewing that group's findings. They are certainly voluminous, and have recently come to us. I was pleased to read that they would also like to see a legislative proposal that could give the Food and Drug Administration additional authority for preventive controls for high risk foods from high risk countries. If you would like to read their proposal for yourself, I encourage you to visit their website at www.importsafety.gov. 
   Mr. Speaker, you might ask, is there a dark side, is there a downside to all of this that we have been talking about tonight? Of course, the answer to that is yes. We always, we always in this Congress, have to be cautious about crossing the line and approaching or pushing that ever-expanding reach and grasp of the Federal Government in places it doesn't belong. But, you know, that is one of the basic activities that Americans expect out of their Federal Government, and that is to ensure the safety of the food supply and ensure the safety of the products that come into this country from other countries. 
   The last thing we want is for the Federal Government to control every little aspect of things that we pick up off our grocers' and stores' shelves, but it is a balancing act, as always, and we have to be always vigilant and be always cognizant of that fact. 
   We also must be vigilant in restoring safety and trust back into the foods we eat and the products we use. I believe that H.R. 3967, the Food Import and Safety Improvement Act of 2007, will further that goal, will further that purpose, as will the enhanced recall authority for the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission that we talked about a little earlier tonight. 
   Compromising the safety of the foods that we put on our tables must not ever be an option for this Congress. Compromising the consumer products that we buy for our families must never be an option, must never be an optional activity, for this Congress. Compromising the security of Americans cannot be an option. Compromising cannot be an option because we simply lack the power or lack the political will to exercise that power. 
   Remember the big red stop button. H.R. 3967 gives us the power to protect Americans by stopping things before they get into this country. We can no longer sit back and continue to allow harmful products to reach our homes. All Americans, all Americans, and I include myself, have the choice to take a stance individually and simply not buy products that come from a country that serially violates our safety standards. And we have talked about that country several times tonight, the People's Republic of China, because they have not proven that their products are safe, and, over and over again, we hear and see the news reports that their products are not safe. 
   But we have got to go further than that. Stricter rules are necessary. It is up to this Congress, it is up to this Congress, to step up, take the necessary legislative activities under their  control, and do what is right for the American people. 
   Mr. Speaker, you have been very indulgent, and I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SENSE OF HOUSE REGARDING THE IMPORTANCE OF THE RED CROSS TO THE MILITARY -- (House of Representatives - September 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I appreciate the efforts of both of my colleagues from Texas on the Foreign Relations Committee for helping bring this resolution to the floor today so that it could be done in the time we have remaining in the United States Congress this year. 
   I do ask my colleagues to support House Resolution 937. This resolution expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that the emergency communications services provided by the American Red Cross are vital resources for military and servicemembers and their families. 
   For more than a century, the American Red Cross has provided an emergency messaging system free of charge to all military servicemembers and to their families. Through 756 chapters in the United States and on 58 military installations around the world, the American Red Cross serves over 1.4 million active duty personnel and 1.2 million members of the National Guard and Reserves with emergency communication. 
   Twenty-four hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year, American Red Cross volunteers transmit emergency messages between military servicemembers and their families. This resource provides not only a notification system for the servicemember, but it also offers third-party verification of the emergency. In an emergency, commanders in the field rely on this unbiased third-party verification when deciding whether to release a military servicemember from their duties. 
   In addition to keeping more than 1,000 military families connected each day, the Red Cross delivers emergency messages regarding serious illness of a loved one or the good news on the birth of a servicemember's child or grandchild. I know this because I had personal service during my career as an obstetrician back in Texas, and I cannot tell you the number of times where the Red Cross provided this vital function. 
   The Red Cross emergency communications services are also available to the families of civilian personnel working overseas under contract to the Department of Defense. This service to the Armed Forces assists an active duty servicemember or veteran every 3 minutes, receives a call from someone in need every 1 1/2 minutes, and assists those in need with one phone call placed or received every minute of every day of every year. 
   Today, I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing the volunteers, the supporters, the military servicemembers and their families who rely on the American Red Cross to communicate messages in a family emergency. This vital service could not happen without the sincere support of the Red Cross and the dedication to our troops and families. I ask you to commend them by voting in support of House Resolution 937. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HONORING LIEUTENANT GENERAL RUSSEL L. HONORE -- (House of Representatives - February 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
   And, Mr. Speaker, I will just tell you it's a privilege to stand on the floor here today to hear the testimony of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in tribute to this great American. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am honored to stand here today in support of H. Res. 944, recognizing the 37 years of service of Lieutenant General Russel Honore. 
   At a time it seemed our country's civil fabric was tearing before our very eyes, all of us felt we saw a Nation in peril. The efforts of elected officials at the local level, at the State level, at the Federal level were not up to the task of dealing with the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. It took officers of the United States Armed Forces who provided the security that the whole country longed to see, and at the center of that was Lieutenant General Russel Honore. 
   Mr. Speaker, it was my honor to go with my committee to the City of New Orleans in October of that year to try to help with the restoration of some of the medical care of the City of New Orleans, and during that trip, I went to the Oschner Clinic, which is there near downtown New Orleans. It's on a natural sort of rise between the Mississippi River and downtown New Orleans, so it was buffeted by the winds of the storm but spared from the floodwaters and was struggling valiantly to keep up with the stream of human injury that was coming through the doors on a 24-hour-a-day basis. 
   Specifically, I spoke with some doctors in the emergency room at the Oschner Clinic. The feeling at the clinic was that they were going to be okay from the standpoint of did they have enough diesel fuel to run their generators, did they have enough medicines, but the civil unrest, which was building outside their walls, clearly continued to imperil them. Again, these were individuals who had ridden out the storm. They had stayed in the hospital during the storm to see the sick and wounded who managed to come in. They had stayed at their posts as the floodwaters rose around them, not knowing if the floodwaters would stop before they got to their doors, but, indeed, stop they did. 
   But you can imagine the heartbreak of this young emergency room physician who described to me 3 days into their turmoil, 3 days into their task, saved from the winds, spared from the waters, but they could hear the civil unrest boiling outside the doors. They could hear the gunshots. They could hear the shouts of the crowds. And they knew that their facility was clearly going to be targeted because they had seen on the news where other health care facilities had been targeted, because of perhaps drug-seeking behavior, who knows why, but they were very much at risk. 
   This emergency room doctor had brought his wife to the hospital because he felt she wasn't safe at home. He described how they had spent the night under his desk in their office waiting for the end to come. They had survived the winds. They had survived the water. They were not going to survive the riots outside the door. 
   And then right before dawn, he heard a helicopter. Not unusual because there were news helicopters circling around the city on an almost continual basis. But this was a different kind of helicopter. It had a much throatier roar. And then there was another one and another one and another one. And they turned on the television to see the landing of Lieutenant General Russ Honore taking command of the city, taking control back. I cannot tell you today the relief in this young man's  voice as he described that scenario that unfolded before him. 
   I'm happy to come to the floor with my colleagues and honor the service of Lieutenant General Russ Honore. 
   Thank you, sir, for what you did in restoring order to our country. Thank you for helping that young family in the emergency room that day. This Nation will forever be in your debt. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON H.R. 4040, CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY MODERNIZATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - May 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, as a physician, parent, and policy maker, I understand that we need to work together to protect our children. I'm proud to say we have done that. The House crafted and passed a comprehensive, commonsense bill that boosts CPSC funding and personnel, bans lead in children's products, requires third-party product testing, and increases penalties for those who break the law. 
   I went to the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission labs. I saw first hand the need for more resources. 
   I went to the International Toy Fair in New York City. I saw first hand the increasing number of toys coming into this country, as well as the measures that industry is taking to keep toys safe. 
   Our bill takes into account the needs the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the needs of consumers, the needs of the industry, but most importantly, the need to keep our children safe. 
   The House was able to put politics aside to keep children safe. While also providing more resources in a pragmatic, bipartisan approach. 
   This Motion to Instruct recognizes these efforts and will help this important bill to be enacted into law.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SUPPORTING THE OBSERVANCE OF COLORECTAL CANCER AWARENESS MONTH -- (House of Representatives - March 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I yield myself so much time as I may consume. 
   Madam Speaker, colorectal cancer is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer. It's the second most common cause of cancer deaths in the United States; clearly a major player in our cancer burden here in this country. Every 3 1/2 minutes someone is diagnosed with colorectal cancer. Every 9  minutes someone dies from colorectal cancer. 
   This is a disease that affects men and women equally. This year, almost 150,000 new cases will be diagnosed, and almost 50,000 deaths will be caused by colorectal cancer. The real tragedy is that many of these cancer cases and deaths do not have to happen. The vast majority of colorectal cancer deaths can be prevented through proper screening and early detection. This resolution recognizes March as Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month. 
   My good friend from Maryland talked about disparities; indeed, disparities do occur. And one of the things we can do to diminish those disparities is to talk. We can talk more about this disease. And the more we encourage our family and friends, our neighbors to get screened, the more lives we can, in fact, save. 
   But recognizing Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month is not enough. We do need to increase Federal funding for early detection and screening. So, along with Congressman Wynn, Representative Granger has introduced a bill that would authorize funding for early detection screenings and make preventive care a priority. Specifically, the Colorectal Cancer Prevention, Early Detection and Treatment Act, H.R. 738, would establish a national screening program for colorectal cancer for individuals over 50 years of age and/or who are at high risk. It would also authorize State funding for these screenings, and it would create a public awareness and education campaign for colorectal cancer. 
   Despite scientific evidence supporting the benefits of screenings, screenings remain low for this disease in the United States, and every 5 seconds someone who should be screened is not. When colorectal cancer is diagnosed late, the survival rate for cancer is only 10 percent, but if it's diagnosed early, before spread has occurred, the survival rate is in excess of 90 percent. Early detection and screening saves lives. 
   If everyone over 50 years of age were screened regularly for colon cancer, the death rate for this disease could plummet by 80 percent. In addition to saving lives, early detection and screening clearly would save money. 
   Treatment costs for colon cancer are extremely high and could be greatly reduced if mass screenings occurred. Colon cancer treatment costs totaled roughly $8.5 billion for new cases in 2007. Let me say that again, almost $8.5 billion for 2007. The costs of two-thirds of these cancer cases are borne by the Medicare program. 
   The Lewin Group recently conducted a comprehensive study of the potential cost savings to Medicare and found that every 10 years a colon cancer screening program will result in a savings of about 1 1/2 years worth of Medicare expenditures. If screenings were increased among people 50 years of age and older in the United States, it would save billions of dollars in Medicare expenditures, not to mention the thousands of lives that would be spared. 
   The Colon Cancer Prevention, Early Detection and Treatment Act ensures that people who are screened will get the full continuum of cancer care, including the appropriate follow-up for abnormal tests, diagnostic and therapeutic services, and treatment for detected cancers. 
   Observing Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month provides us with the opportunity to discuss the importance of early detection and of screening. It also provides us the opportunity to thank the thousands of volunteers and the national and community organizations for their work in promoting awareness of this disease. Groups like the Prevent Cancer Foundation, the National Colorectal Cancer Society Roundtable, the American Cancer Society, the Colon Cancer Alliance, and C3: Colorectal Cancer Coalition, these groups have created the ``Earn a Blue Star Day'' as a way for individuals and corporations to raise awareness of the importance of screening for this cancer. 
   I encourage my colleagues in the House to ``earn a blue star'' by using this opportunity to promote awareness of colon cancer and to support early detection and screening. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SUPPORTING THE OBSERVANCE OF COLORECTAL CANCER AWARENESS MONTH -- (House of Representatives - March 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I will yield myself 1 minute for the purpose of closing. 
   This is an important bill and I do encourage my colleagues to support this bill. Have the test, find the polyp, get the cure. It's really that simple. 
   One of the problems with serving in Congress is you recognize that we move so slowly on so many things. Madam Speaker, there are going to be new medicines, new tests. We're on the threshold of great things in all areas of medicine. The study of colon cancer is no small part of that. 
   But the reality is today there is a test, there is a test that can be easily done. A cure is just around the corner for someone who might suffer from this disease. 
   So I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation. I thank my friend from Maryland for bringing it forward, and I'll yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - September 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Let me respectfully point out we call that the Dallas-Ft. Worth area back where I come from. 
   I am going to reiterate many of the points that have already been made tonight. It's hard to not cover ground that's already been covered. 
   This was my sixth trip to the country of Iraq. I was there a year ago. We went in July, toward the end of July, a weekend trip, as Mr. Carter already pointed out. I didn't know it was possible to do a weekend trip to Baghdad but, indeed, it is if the circumstances are correct. 
   The year before I was there and heard about some of the things that were happening in a hospital, a little town called Ramadi. General Peter Chiarelli, as I recall, said, I am not sure what this means and probably too early to talk about it, but it seems as if we have been invited into the hospital, which was one of the main headquarters of the insurgents, the Sunni insurgents there in Ramadi, and the building was turned over without firing a shot. 
   A year later, the situation is completely reversed, and Ramadi was so stable that not only could we talk about visiting it, we, indeed, did visit. It is that trip that really embodies the success that has occurred and, largely, the success that has occurred since beginning the additional troop strength in February and, of course, the ascension of General David Petraeus to be the commander of the forces in Iraq. 
   The fact is, I don't think you can deny that significant successes have been made and they continue to occur on an ongoing basis, returning control of the country to the Iraqi Government and to its people and delivering it out of the hands of criminals and murderers. But I don't think any of us would disagree. It's still a very dangerous situation and the sacrifice that's being made by all participants in the country is very, very real. 
   It is my opinion, and I spoke on the floor of this House right before we had the decision to support the President on the surge, it is my opinion that it is in America's broad interest that we be successful in this endeavor. It is also my opinion that it is, indeed, possible for us to be successful. 
   Nothing that I saw on this trip would discourage me from either one of those points. It is my opinion that a stable country in Iraq, with a representational government that's able to act as a partner in peace in the Middle East, would be vastly preferable to a lawless land ruled by terrorists, criminals, with sources and training capabilities where they would be able to expand their activities, not just to other areas of Iraq but, indeed, to other areas of the Middle East and, indeed, to other areas of the world. 
   Almost without question, the divergent future, the potential divergent future of that country was on the minds of almost everyone we encountered during that very brief 2-day trip. Certainly America's interest is going to be best served by stability in the country and their active participation in quieting a very troubled region. 
   In July of 2006, there was no way that we could have taken a congressional delegation into Ramadi. It would have been too dangerous, and we would have been turned down had we asked. But this time we got off of the C-130 in Baghdad and loaded onto the Black Hawk helicopters, and we were taken to Ramadi. 
   We met with the soldiers there. We met with the soldiers of the II Marine Expeditionary Force, which are part of the surge. General Gaston, who I believe is on the pictures with President Bush over the weekend, was part of that briefing that we had there, met the mayor, met the health minister. 
   The mayor of Ramadi sounded like a mayor in any one of the 60 cities that are in my district. He said, I need more Federal money. By the way, if you come back and visit next year, this place is really going to be something, so plan on coming back and spending some money when you get here. He sounded like a combination mayor and  chamber of commerce guy, but he really believed in what he was doing. 
   I guess, of all of the things that I didn't expect to find when I got to Iraq this time, it was that slow building of the institutions of local government, which previously had been lacking, that building of the institutions of government at the local level, which heretofore I had not witnessed on any of the trips that I had made to Iraq. That was the thing that probably gives me the most hope for what the overall future for that country may entail.     
   When we got to Ramadi, we had our briefings. We had our visits with the health director and the mayor. And then we went downtown. We went to an area that previously was involved in very, very heavy ground fire and ground fighting for the control of that city. 
   Remember, Ramadi is a city about the size of Fort Worth, Texas. It's about 400,000 to 500,000 people. It was designated to be the provincial capitol of the resurgent caliphate in western Iraq. 
   Well, we walked through the market, and it looks like a very normal market in a Middle Eastern country. And you can see the look on the faces of the people there. They're curious about people walking through their market. Clearly, we did not look like we were typical shoppers. But you see the faces of the children there, inquisitive and friendly. 
   A lot of stuff available for sale there, much more than I would have thought in an area that had been recently so hard pressed. 
   One of the very striking things to me again is the faces of the children, very energetic, very engaged, very trusting. These two young men came right up to us. I think they were interested in if we had any pens or quarters. Clearly, the close association with the American military has taught them a few things about life in this country. 
   But clearly, a very different picture on the street in Ramadi than you would have encountered a year ago. 
   From a military perspective, there's no question that success has been made and continues to be made on a near daily basis. The primary enemy, which is al Qaeda in Iraq, has not only been beaten but they've been vanquished every time there is an encounter. Al Qaeda has now about three options: they can move, communicate, or shoot. And if they do any one of those three things, they are met by our military, and they are dispatched. 
   Because of the increased military presence of our troops in Iraq, the confrontations are more frequent, and you see that reflected in statistics coming out of that country. 
   From the government perspective, there's not a Sunday morning that goes by that we don't hear someone complain about the government in Iraq, and I'll do the same thing. It's astounding to me that a country that young, a government that young can already have entrenched bureaucracies that exist within it. Iraq has a very centralized government. 
   But, again, I would stress the building up of the work that's going on currently of that sort of bottom-up work of building governments does seem to be a cause for some optimism. 
   Probably this conflict, unlike any other in our Nation's history, there are data points which are distributed all over the map. And anybody can take a handful of those data points and make whatever conclusion, draw whatever conclusion they have in their mind to make. It is going to take a lot more discipline for this body to look at the trends, analyze the data trends, look at the trend lines. But that's a discipline that we just have to undertake. There are people in the field who are counting on us to be able to make that rational, dispassionate assessment of trend lines; and it is the obligation of Congress to follow through on that. 
   There have been two or three years of serious brutality at the hands of al Qaeda, and this population now sees Americans as helpers and protectors. The tribal leaders that originally feared that the Americans would be occupiers quickly came to understand that the Americans have no such interest, but the same could not be said for the al Qaeda interests. Their clear intent was to hold territory for their own purposes for the foreseeable future. 
   The point was made over and over again on our trip that there is no easy, there is no overnight solution to the problems that confront us in Iraq. Unfortunately, leadership cannot be bought, and it has to be grown. It has to be part of an evolutionary change. But it can occur if the right environment is provided and appropriate, but not indefinite, time is given to develop those institutions of government. 
   Everything we have asked of our military they have delivered, they have produced for us. What we have asked of the Iraqi Government is still a work in progress, and we've set a pretty high bar. And it's a much shorter time frame than even our own country had available to it. 
   I think of the Articles of Confederation that ultimately led up to the Constitution. What if someone had said to us, time's up, and you've just got to get it done? 
   With continued pushing on the Iraqi Government and the recognition that there are cultural challenges before them, I am hopeful that it can mature into a stable partner for peace in the Middle East. 
   My opinion, my conclusion is that our presence in Iraq is still necessary. It's necessary for America's interests, not for Iraq's interests. I've said, and I think everyone in our group said every time we'd sit down with representatives from one of the ministries, you've got to show some evidence of success. You've got to achieve some benchmarks. 
   I think when we met with Dr. Sharistani, the oil minister, it's probably most evident. They've got problems in trying to achieve these benchmarks. Not every country that surrounds them is interested in Iraq being successful. Yeah, we all know about Iran and their influence; read more about it today. We all know about Syria and their influence. 
   But what about the Saudis? Do they have an interest in perhaps not getting that oil revenue sharing law passed? Well, this was brought up to us. It would have never occurred to me that this might be an obstacle to getting that law passed and enacted, but apparently there are some forces, and maybe even just some media forces within that country that work in a detrimental way to that kind of progress. But progress has to come and it has to be clearly evident for those on the outside. We perhaps have asked them to achieve the impossible in such a short time frame. But, again, many of us here tonight have made multiple trips to Iraq. Every trip I've made, I have seen progress, evidence of significant progress since the trip before. And I have no doubt that that progress has continued since our trip there the latter part of July. 
   Again, my opinion: it is in America's interest that we be successful. And to answer the question, is success still a possibility, I don't think there's any question after this last trip. The answer to that is a resounding yes. 
   I'll yield back to the gentleman from Texas, and I truly appreciate him calling this Special Order tonight. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - September 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I wanted to come to the floor of the House this evening and do as I do many times late in the day after the official business of Congress has concluded and talk a little bit about health care. 
   Health care is going to be one of the things that we hear about a lot over the next 14 to 16 months before the next Presidential election. There are a lot of areas that I could discuss, but I want to concentrate on two areas. Those are the physician workforce itself, who is actually going to provide the care. And we are coming up on the 4 year anniversary of a law that was passed back in my home State of Texas that dealt with significant medical liability reform, and I would like to spend a few minutes talking about that also this evening. 
   We have to, as a Nation, look at the effects that some of the policies that we have generated here in Congress, quite honestly some of the policies that we have had that have been prevalent in our Medicaid and Medicare system that have resulted in physicians not continuing their practices, or, I am afraid to say, in some instances young people even deciding that the practice of medicine may not be for them. 
   Now, right before we left on break, we had an opportunity to reauthorize the Children's Health Insurance Program. It was a program that is now going on 10 years since its inception, passed by a Republican Congress, signed into law by a Democratic President, so truly a bipartisan effort 10 years ago. It is going to expire at the end of this month. 
   Mr. Speaker, every one of us who stood in this Chamber and raised their right hand and swore an oath on January 3 that we were going to do the country's business this year, every one of us knew that the Children's Health Insurance Program expired at the end of the fiscal year, which is less than 30 days away. 
   Still, we waited until the absolute last minute before we broke on our August recess. A bill came to the House floor after some fairly contentious committee proceedings. Regular order in the committees was not adhered to. We didn't go through a subcommittee process. We got a big bill dumped on us right before we had a full committee hearing, and as a consequence, there was no time to evaluate that in my Energy and Commerce Committee. It was brought to the House floor and it passed largely on partisan lines. It is strikingly different than the bill passed in the Senate, and the President had already indicated that he would not sign but veto the bill passed in the Senate. And I have to believe that the bill that was passed at the last minute, in the waning moments before the August recess by the House of Representatives, I have to believe that the President feels the same way about that bill as well. 
   It is significant, of course, because there are a lot of people who depend on the State Children's Health Insurance Program. 
   Mr. Speaker, I don't think I can name one person in this body on either side of the aisle who wouldn't be for a reauthorization of this program if we could simply sit down and do it in a reasonable fashion. Unfortunately,  that was not available to us. So now, we will go through and watch the drama of naming conferees and having conference committee hearings and we will have a bill that will come to us which may or may not be acceptable. I have to believe at the end of the day it is going to be very, very difficult for us to pass a conference report that the President can sign before the 30th of September. 
   There was a lot of good stuff in the bill. There were a lot of good things in the bill that should have been tackled as separate entities, not rolled into this one big amalgam that was spread out before us right before the end of the session. 
   One of the things that was addressed in the bill that I was grateful for was an attempt to deal with one of the things that has been a very contentious issue the entire 5 years I have been in this Congress, and that is the issue on physician payments. But as a consequence of how the bill has been handled and how the bill was brought to the floor of the House and how the bill was pushed through the committee process, again it is unlikely that the reasonable things that were in the bill will ever see the light of day and those things will still be requiring our attention before we get to the end of this year. 
   Mr. Speaker, one day right before Chairman Alan Greenspan concluded his tenure as chairman of the Federal Reserve, he came and talked to a group of us here on Capitol Hill, and the question came up: Mr. Chairman, what do you see about the problems ahead for the Medicare program? 
   Chairman Greenspan thought about it and he said: I think when the time comes, you will make the necessary hard choices that are required to keep the Medicare program solvent. He then went on to say what concerns me more is will there be anyone there to deliver the services when you actually require them. 
   Those have been words that have stuck with me since the time Chairman Greenspan came and talked to us early that morning. He has since been back and talked to a different group, and I asked him if he feels the same way today, and the answer was not only yes, but yes and more so. 
   Back in my home State of Texas in March, the lead article in a magazine that is published by the Texas Medical Association called Texas Medicine was an issue about running out of doctors and how medical schools were having to work extra hard to develop new doctors, and since this was a Texas-based article, to keep those doctors practicing in Texas. 
   There is a series of three bills that I have recently introduced this year to try to deal with the oncoming physician manpower shortage as I see it. Now, the first of these bills would be to deal with graduate medical education and some enhancements to graduate medical education. 
   This would help younger doctors with the creation of new residency programs. A strange thing about doctors is, and one of the things that was stressed in this article in Texas Medicine, we have a lot of inertia. A doctor is very likely to go into practice within a 50- or 100-mile radius of where that doctor does their residency. They don't show a lot of originality of thought when it goes into establishing that private practice. They tend to stay where they were in training. 
   There are a lot of reasons for that: Comfort and knowledge of the other practitioners in the medical community, knowing those pathways for referral, perhaps even already having established some pathways for referral sources while in the residency program. For whatever reason, doctors tend to practice very close to where they trained in residency. 
   But a lot of smaller and medium-sized communities with hospitals that have a patient load that would sustain a residency program, in fact, don't have a residency program. The barrier to entry for a hospital like that to set up a residency program is quite expensive, and so the barrier to entry is significant. And as a consequence, those residency programs are just not done. They are not established. 
   The bill I proposed is designed to get more training programs into areas where medical service is less than optimal, perhaps rural or inner city areas, to get young doctors training in locations where they are actually needed.     
   Now, the Graduate Medical Education Enhancement Act, as introduced, would develop a program that would permit hospitals that do not traditionally operate a residency program, it would allow them the opportunity to start a residency training program to begin building that physician workforce of the future. 
   Now, on average, it costs about $100,000 a year to train a resident, and that cost for a smaller rural hospital can, in fact, be prohibitive. Because of the cost consideration, the bill would create a loan fund available to hospitals to create residency training programs, again where none has operated in the past. The program, of course, would require full accreditation and be generally focused in rural suburban, inner urban areas, areas where, again, the need is greatest. 
   Now, a diverse group of professional organizations, including the American College of Emergency Physicians and the American Osteopathic Association, have been very supportive of this legislation, and I think realistically this is something that this Congress could take up and could agree upon in a bipartisan fashion, and in fact, we likely could do that before the end of the year if we were to set our minds to it. 
   But locating young doctors where they're needed is part of solving an impending physician shortage that realistically could encompass the entire health care system in the country. 
   Another aspect that needs to considered is actually training the doctors for those high-need specialties. Now, a second bill introduced, H.R. 2384 for those of you who are keeping score at home, the High Need Physician Specialty Act of 2007, establishes a mix of scholarships, loan repayment funds and tax incentives to entice more students to medical school and to create incentives for students and newly minted doctors. This program will establish a repayment program for students who agree to go into high-need specialties, again family practice, internal medicine, emergency medicine, general surgery, OB/GYN, and practice in a medically underserved area. It will be a 5-year authorization at $5 million per year. 
   This bill would provide additional educational scholarships in exchange for a commitment, and that commitment is to serve in a public or private, nonprofit health facility determined to have a critical shortage of primary care physicians. 
   Other prominent groups such as the American Association of Retired Persons and the American College of Physicians support this high-need physician specialty legislation, and Mr. Speaker, I would just parenthetically point out, we did earlier this year a similar bill to offset some of the costs of educating young lawyers. And perhaps we should devote some similar attention to young physicians as well. 
   But you know, Mr. Speaker, in addressing the physician workforce crisis, in a little bit we're going to focus on some liability concerns in reforming the liability system. I've already talked about placement of doctors in locations in greatest need and the financial concerns of encouraging doctors to remain in high-need specialties. 
   But the other thing we've really got to focus on is perhaps the largest group of doctors, and I know for a fact it's the largest and still growing group of patients, that group that's encompassed by the so-called baby boom generation and their effect on the entire Medicare program. 
   We've all heard it before. The baby boomers are going to grow older and retire, and the demand for services are going to go through the roof, and if the physician workforce trends continue as they are today, that is, a downward trajectory, we may not be talking about just simply funding a Medicare program. We may be wondering where all the doctors are who are supposed to be taking care of those seniors. 
   Again, I allude back to the comments of Chairman Greenspan, and I think those comments echo very strongly today. But year over year, one of the reasons for this happening is year over year there's a reduction in reimbursement payments from the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services to doctors, to physicians for services that they provide to Medicare patients.  
   Now, Mr. Speaker, this is not a question of doctors just wanting to make more money. It's about stabilized repayment for services that have already been rendered, and it isn't affecting just doctors. This problem affects patients and becomes a real crisis of access. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, not a week goes by that I don't get a letter or a fax from some doctor back in Texas who said, you know what, I have just had enough, and I am going to retire early or I'm no longer going to see Medicare patients in my practice or I'm going to restrict those procedures that I offer to Medicare patients. 
   Mr. Speaker, I know this is happening because I saw it in the hospital where I practiced in my own hospital environment before I left the practice of medicine to come to Congress back in 2003, but I hear it in virtually every town hall that I do back in my district. Someone will raise their hand and say how come on Medicare you turn 65 and you have to change doctors? Mr. Speaker, the answer is because their doctor found it no longer economically viable to continue to see Medicare patients because they weren't able to cover the cost of delivering the care. 
   Medicare payments to physicians are modified annually under something called the sustainable growth rate formula. You probably hear it referred to in the Capitol as the SGR formula. There are flaws in this formula. There's flaws in the process, and the SGR-mandated physician fee cuts in recent years have only been averted at the last minute by fixes that Congress does legislatively, usually at the eleventh hour right before we wrap things up at the end of the year. 
   If no long-term congressional action plan is implemented, the SGR, the sustainable growth rate, formula will continue year over year to mandate fee cuts. Mr. Speaker, let me also point out that these last minute fixes, Mr. Speaker, they're not free. They add to the cost of ultimately repealing the SGR. 
   One of the things we hear over and over again, it just costs too much, we can't repeal the SGR. But every year that we delay fixing the SGR, we add billions and billions of dollars to the total cost of ultimately repealing this sustainable growth rate formula, the formula under which no physician can continue to practice and see Medicare patients. 
   Mr. Speaker, unlike hospital reimbursement rates, which closely follow what's called the Medicare economic index, that's basically a consumer price index or cost of living adjustment, however you want to look at it, it's called the Medicare economic index which measures the cost of providing care. What is the cost of input for taking care of a patient in either a hospital or medical practice setting? But physician reimbursements don't track the Medicare economic index. 
   In fact, Medicare payments to physicians at present only cover about 65 percent of the actual cost of providing services. Mr. Speaker, can you imagine anyone in business or any industry and ask them to continue in business if they receive only 65 percent of what it costs them to deliver whatever good or service it is that they're providing? There's a recipe for financial disaster if you're in that sort of business. If you're losing 35 cents out of every dollar that is spent on 
   health care, guess what; you don't make it up in volume. 
   Well, currently, the sustainable growth rate formula links physician payment updates to the gross domestic product, and Mr. Speaker, for the life of me I don't understand that. There is no relationship to the gross domestic product to the cost of providing care to America's most vulnerable patients, most complicated patients, our senior citizens. 
   But we hear it over and over again. Simply repeal of the sustainable growth rate formula is cost prohibitive, but you know, maybe if we do it over time, maybe if we don't try to do it all at once right here and now, maybe there is a way forward in this. 
   Last year, I introduced a bill, H.R. 5866, which sought to repeal the SGR straight up, just get rid of it, and the cost for that was scored by the Congressional Budget Office as being $218 billion. Reality is today, because of the cost of doing nothing, that repeal would likely cost in the neighborhood of $265- to $275 billion over that 10-year budget window, that elusive 10-year window that we're always talking about. 
   Mr. Speaker, paying physicians fairly will extend the career of many doctors who are now in practice, who otherwise some mornings may wake up and just opt-out of the Medicare program and may seek early retirement. They may run for Congress or they may restrict those procedures that they offer to their Medicare patients. You know, I talked about ensuring an adequate physician workforce. If we were to fix this problem with the sustainable growth rate formula, if we were to evolve to a Medicare economic index way of paying for those costs of actually delivering the care, maybe then older Americans could have the insurance that they will have the access to the coverage that they want, they need and that they expect. 
   Mr. Speaker, we hear a lot in this body about things like pay for performance. Well, Mr. Speaker, I would just ask the question, how does driving out perhaps some of the most capable doctors, doctors who are mature in their practice, who have developed practice patterns that are economical, they've developed efficiencies in their practice, that they are the doctors who are the most proficient in the operating room, the ones that will come to a diagnostic conclusion quickest, if we drive all of those doctors out of practice, how much are we going to have to pay for performance in that scenario? 
   Mr. Speaker, in a bill that I introduced, H.R. 2585, the physician payment stabilization bill, the sustainable growth rate formula would be repealed in 2 years' time, in 2010. That's 2 years from now, and by some other budgetary techniques, resetting the baseline in the SGR formula, provide physicians the protections that they would need for 2008 and 2009 so they would not see reductions in reimbursements over those years and would then provide them the sustained protection of the Medicare economic index in 2010 and beyond. 
   Now, recently, again the Congressional Budget Office estimated that the practical effect of my payment bill would bring a 1.5 percent update in 2008 and a 1 percent update in 2009 and then a complete elimination of the sustainable growth rate formula in 2010. The CBO also calculates an additional savings of $40 billion off of the total price tag of the SGR elimination. 
   Additionally, Mr. Speaker, we always hear how things like improving health information technology and, indeed, reporting and incorporating some performance measures will lower the cost of care. Included in this bill would be two voluntary programs which would augment physicians' payments 3 percent for a physician or group who instituted some changes in their information technology and a 3 percent update for physicians that would participate in a voluntary reporting process, for those individuals who want to further offset the damaging effects of what the last 10 years of cuts in the sustainable growth rate formula have brought to their practices. 
   But Mr. Speaker, the concept here is very simple. It's so simple that sometimes we forget what the concept is. The concept is stop the cuts and repeal the SGR formula. It's the only logical, economically viable solution, and Mr. Speaker, it is the only solution that has in its focus the long-term problem. 
   Again, a lot of people say why not just bite the bullet and go with the full repeal of the SGR and get it out of the way. I tried that last year. I really found no enthusiasm for it, either in this body or any of the professional organizations that are out there that ostensibly would be there to help push a concept like this. 
   And Mr. Speaker, again, on paper it costs a tremendous amount of money to do that, and we're required here in Congress to live under the rule of the Congressional Budget Office to find out how much things cost: If we're going to be spending the taxpayers' money, how much are we going to spend, over what time will we spend it. 
   Because of the constraints of the Congressional Budget Office, we're not allowed to do what's called dynamic scoring. We can't look ahead and say, you know, I think if we do things this way, we're actually going to save some money. You can't do that under the current Congressional Budget Office constraints, and maybe that's okay, but it certainly puts some limits on some of the things that you're able to do.  
   Mr. Speaker, case in point is the trustee's report from Medicare that came out earlier this summer, and the bad news is that Medicare is still going broke. But the good news is that Medicare is going to go broke a year later than what they told us, 2019 instead of 2018. 
   The reason for that, Mr. Speaker, is because 600,000 hospital beds in 2005 were not filled in the Medicare program. Those were beds that were expected to be filled, but in fact, those patients weren't admitted to the hospital. Because why? Doctors are doing things better. Doctors are doing more procedures and offering more in their offices, in their ambulatory surgery centers. Because of the way that the Medicare payment works in Part a, Part B, Part C and Part D, money that we save for Part A, because we spent more in Part B, never gets credited to Part B.     
   That's why we have such a difficulty in offsetting these costs. This bill that I have introduced would actually take those savings, sequester them, aggregate them, protect them, and 2 years later, cost savings from part A would, in fact, be applied to part B to bring down the cost of repealing the sustainable growth rate formula. 
   One of the main thrusts of the bill is to require the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to look at the top 10 things that cost the most amount of money each year, to require the CMS to adopt reporting measures relating to these top 10 conditions. These things have already been developed. This is not reinventing the wheel. 
   The American Medical Association and several medical consortia have already developed reporting measures on the 10 conditions that drive medical costs so high. 
   We all remember the famous bank robber Willie Sutton. When they asked him why does he rob the bank, he replied because that's where the money is. Let's go where the money is. Let's go with these top 10 things where the greatest amount of money is spent because that's where the greatest amount of savings can occur. 
   If we can deliver care in a more timely fashion, if we can improve outcomes, we are actually going to spend less. If we spend less, let's give credit where credit is due. That's not by building up the trust fund in part A; that's by buying down the SGR formula in part B and ultimately repealing it once and for all. 
   The same considerations may apply to the Medicaid program as well, so it will be a very useful exercise to go through and identify those top 10 conditions, and where the savings can be the most easily gathered. Not only will it have an effect on Medicare, but I suspect Medicaid as well. 
   I think we ought to report back to the doctors to how they are doing, confidentially, of course, and individually. We don't tell everyone about every doctor, but let the doctor know how he is doing compared to his peers, how he or she is doing as far as their Medicare expenditures. 
   You know what? Since we will have the data there, and it's already collected, I think we should share data with the patient as well. How much did your care cost the government last year? Try to encourage patients to do those things to participate in their own care and see if they will not participate in bringing the cost of that care down. 
   Now, why do I spend so much time talking about this? Because it's a very important concept. Now, in the SCHIP bill, as was passed by the House, there was a modest physician fix for 2008 and 2009. It was less than the CBO scores, the physician fix for my bill, but the reality is, that the SCHIP bill, the physician fix contained within the SCHIP bill did not have as an end point the repeal of the SGR. 
   I reiterate, if you don't repeal the SGR, you only make the problem worse than in the out years. By 2010, what happens under the SCHIP bill? All those cuts come back, 10 percent, 13 percent reductions in payments to physicians that year alone, and it continues year over year for the remainder of that budgetary cycle. 
   In fact, the scenario, as it was described to me, is modest update in 2008 and 2009, you fall off a cliff in 2010, and you are frozen in 2013. It doesn't sound like an attractive proposition to me. 
   There is a way forward in this that makes sense. I encourage Members of Congress to look at 2585. It is a reasonable alternative to what was proposed in the SCHIP legislation. The reality is, as we all know, the SCHIP legislation is going to change radically before it ever sees the light of day. It's unclear and uncertain at this time whether a physician fix will, in fact, survive in that bill. 
   Whatever minutes I have left, I want to talk for just a little bit about medical liability reform, because I think this is an issue that this House still needs to address. My home State of Texas, now going on 4 years ago, September 12 of 2003, passed a major piece of legislation that was modeled after a bill passed in the State of California back in 1975. 
   I hate to admit that California was ahead of the curve on this, but the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975 passed in the State of California, which capped noneconomic damages, had a very, very significant effect on what, at the time, was an out-of-control liability climate in that State. 
   The State of Texas adopted a similar program in 2003, modeled after the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975 in California. The Texas bill actually puts a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages as they pertain to the physician, a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages as it applied to the hospital, and a second $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages if there is a second hospital or nursing home involved, for an aggregate cap of $750,000 for noneconomic damages. Actual medical injuries are paid at the actual rate, but noneconomic damages are capped at $750,000 under the Texas law. 
   This was a major, major change for Texas when this happened back in September of 2003. We had been undergoing many years of 20 to 30 percent increases in premiums for physicians' practices in Texas. In the late 1990s, we had 17 medical liability insurers in the State of Texas. In 2002, we were down to two medical liability insurers in the State of Texas. The rest had fled because the litigation climate was so unfavorable in my home State of Texas. You don't get very much competition. You don't get your very best competitive rates when you have only got two companies continuing to write business in your home State. 
   In 2003, we did pass the medical liability reform based off the California law, and a legitimate question to ask is how has Texas done since then? Remember I said we dropped from 17 insurers down to two, because the medical liability crisis rose very quickly. Within 2 years' time, we were back up to 14 or 15. 
   I don't know the total number today, but I believe it is either in the high 20s or perhaps even as high as 30 carriers in the State, a significant change from the environment from just 4 years ago. Most importantly, the carriers that have come back to the State have returned to the State of Texas without an increase in their premium. 
   In 2006, only 3 years after its passage, the Medical Protective Insurance Company had a 10 percent rate cut, which was its fourth reduction since April of 2005. Texas Medical Liability Trust, my last insurer of record, declared an aggregate of 22 percent cuts. Advocate MD, another company, filed a 19 percent rate decrease, and Doctors Company announced a 13 percent rate cut. Real numbers, real numbers that affect real people and affect real access for patients in a State that realistically was in peril in 2002, a significant reversal. More options mean better prices and a more secure setting for medical professionals to remain in practice. 
   One of the unintended beneficiaries of this act was the effect on small community not-for-profit hospitals, the type of hospital who would have been self-insured for medical liability. 
   They have been able to take money out of their escrow accounts and put it back to work in those hospitals to capitalize improvements, pay for nurse's 
   salaries, just the kinds of things you would want your small, medium-sized not-for-profit community-based hospital to be doing, not holding money in escrow against the inevitable liability suit that might occur. 
   I took the language of the Texas plan, worked it so it fit with our constructs here in the House of Representatives. I took that language to the  ranking member of the Budget Committee before we did our budget vote earlier this year. 
   Representative Ryan, Ranking Member Ryan on the Budget Committee had that proposal scored by the Congressional Budget Office. The Texas plan, as applied to the House of Representatives, to the entire 50 States, would yield $3.8 billion in savings over 5 years' time; not a mammoth amount of money, but when you are talking about a $2.999 trillion budget savings of any size, moneys that we will leave on the table in this budgetary cycle that could have gone into some other spending priority, I've got to ask you, I've got to tell you, I just frankly do not understand why we would not look more seriously about taking up that type of plan. 
   Now, on the fourth anniversary of the passage of the Texas plan, I do intend to introduce this legislation. I think it is commonsense legislation that would bring significant relief to our doctors in practice and be a significant source of monetary savings for this House. 
   If Texas is doing such a good job as a State, why do I even care about it? Why do I even bring up that maybe we ought to look for a national solution? 
   Well, consider this. A 1996 study done at Stanford University revealed that in the Medicare system alone, that's a system that we pay for, that we have to come up with the money for every year, in the Medicare system alone, the cost of defensive medicine was approximately $28 to $30 billion a year. 
   That was 10 years ago. I suspect that number is higher today. That's why we can scarcely afford to continue on the trajectory that we are on with medical liability in this body and in this country. Again, I frankly do not understand why we will not embrace and capture those savings that are sitting out there within easy reach. 
   I began this hour talking about the physician workforce, and let me conclude this part of the liability discussion by coming back to the issue of the physician workforce. 
   No other issue in the practice of medicine, and I speak to you for someone who had a medical license and who still has a medical license, but it was an active practice for over 25 years before coming to Congress. No other issue grates on the sensibilities of a doctor in practice as a constant concern about a medical liability suit. We go into practice to do good work. We go into practice to do good things. 
   If a mistake is made or if an outcome is bad, it doesn't always mean that the next step has to be a trip to the lawyer's office and going through one of these egregious, emotionally trying lawsuits. That's one of the things that keeps young people away from the practice of medicine. They look at it and they think, well, it will cost me an awful lot to get that education. You know what, those courses are real hard, and by the time I get there, I will have to pay an enormous amount of money for my liability policy, and I don't even want to think about what it would be like if I actually got sued. 
   Young people getting out of college, are they considering medical school under those conditions? Unfortunately, a lot aren't. 
   We are keeping some of our best and brightest young people out of the health care profession because of the burden that we put upon them, the burden economically that we put upon them to get that education, just the burden that the education itself entails. It can't lighten that burden. It takes a lot of effort to study medicine. It takes more effort, I would suspect, here in the early 21st century than it did late in the 20th century when I was in my medical school classes. 
   But we have to consider the emotional price that we are asking young people to pay if they are go into the practice of medicine. It is within our grasp to reform this system. It is within our best interest as a country to reform this system, and financially, it makes tremendous sense to reform this system. 
   So I ask other Members of Congress to join me when I introduce this legislation later this month. This, again, is a commonsense, practical approach, proven in the laboratory of the States, my home State of Texas, to be a proven and effective method of reducing the cost of medical liability. 
   You have been very indulgent this evening. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL CONSUMER PROTECTION WEEK -- (House of Representatives - February 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of House Resolution 94, recognizing National Consumer Protection Week. The Energy and Commerce Committee has jurisdiction over consumer protection and is a major component of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. 
   This subcommittee, Mr. Speaker, has a history of being active and aggressive in the area to address threats to bringing sensible and meaningful changes to help consumers defend themselves against fraud and provide the Federal Trade Commission with the tools necessary for enforcement. 
   Some of the consumer protection measures we have passed out of the committee include the anti-spyware legislation offered by Mrs. Bono and Mr. Towns, data security legislation to require companies that maintain protection for consumers' sensitive personal information and notify them in the event of a breach; anti-pretexting legislation to prevent unauthorized access to personal phone records; anti-spam legislation to reduce unsolicited and often fraudulent e-mails; and a public law providing for greater authority for the Federal Trade Commission to pursue criminal activity originating in other countries. 
   Despite all of these improvements and new public laws and our commitment to pass these bills in this Congress, they were not enacted into law in the last Congress. There are unscrupulous people who will continue to try to perpetuate fraud. 
   Unfortunately, fraud is often not discovered until there are victims and we then become aware. If we want to see the biggest reduction in fraud, we will need to reduce the pool of potential victims. We can only do so with the cooperation of individuals. Consumers need to be educated and able to detect and prevent fraud. 
   The effects of fraud are often ruinous for individuals and detrimental to society, when we lose trust in our fellow citizens, because those pretending to offer their services are in reality only thieves. In a country as prosperous as the United States, our citizens are too often the target of scams and frauds originating from all over the world. 
   Mr. Speaker, I therefore urge support of H. Res. 94, because this resolution intends to raise citizens' awareness to the problems of fraud and calls on consumers to take every precaution to secure their personal information. 
   Mr. Speaker, I commend Representatives HINOJOSA and BIGGERT for bringing this resolution to the floor in conjunction with National Consumer Protection Week. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NATIONAL BLACK HIV/AIDS AWARENESS DAY -- (House of Representatives - February 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of House Concurrent Resolution 35. I was proud to be a cosponsor of this legislation. This legislation recognizes the goals and ideals of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. 
   Wednesday, February 7, 2007 marks the ninth annual National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. This day serves to commemorate the importance of educating African Americans and, indeed, the entire community about the need to get tested, understand the results of that testing, what it means, and get treatment if they are currently living with HIV or AIDS or are newly diagnosed. 
   National Black HIV/AIDS Day is an important reminder that African Americans continue to be impacted by the disease and that local communities should work together to provide avenues to prevent new infections, as well as ensuring that those currently living with the diagnosis have access to available services for their treatment and for their care. 
   Each year, 20,000 African Americans are newly infected with HIV. African American men and women are among the hardest hit populations in the United States, and in 2004 they accounted for fully half of all of the new HIV diagnoses in this country and more than a third of the AIDS deaths to date. 
   Department statistics show that racial and ethnic minorities represent the highest number of new AIDS cases. More than 75 percent of the people living with AIDS are racial and ethnic minorities, and HIV has become a leading cause of death for African Americans. 
   Mr. Speaker, in my own district in north Texas, a few facts about the HIV epidemic in Tarrant County. The average HIV rate per 100,000 population for Tarrant County, Texas is 25, but for the African American community it is fully three times that amount at 76. 
   The average AIDS rate per 100,000 population for Tarrant County, Texas is 13, but for the African American community, again, that number is tripled to 35. 
   While we saw a spike of AIDS cases in the mid-1990s, and then a decline in the late 1990s, rates have begun again to increase from 1999 to 2003 and continue to climb upwards. 
   In the State of Texas, almost half of all of the HIV and AIDS diagnoses are African Americans, 42 percent and 40 percent respectively. And in my home county of Tarrant County, there is no bigger advocate and activist for the African Americans who are living with this diagnosis than retired Judge Mary Ellen Hicks, and I thank her for her service in making all of us aware of this problem. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this important resolution commemorating National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (AMERICAN MEDICINE TODAY -- (House of Representatives - November 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor tonight to talk a little bit about health care. Of course, we are enmeshed in the great State Children's Health Insurance Program debate here this week, that load having been taken by the Senate at the end of last week, the bill being sent off to the President, we expect a veto, and probably sometime before this week is over, we will, one more time, test whether or not that veto will be overridden or sustained. I suspect the numbers will not have changed from the last time when the veto was sustained. So we are going to continue to have this debate in front of us for some time. 
   I do want to talk about the State Children's Health Insurance Program in some detail. But I want to put it in context. I want to put it in the context of what is happening in American medicine today, the transformational process that is going on in American medicine today and how those rapid advances in science are being affected by the policies that we craft here in this body and indeed how that has happened several times during the last hundred years, and we may expect it to happen in the future, but why the decisions we make today in this body are so critical for the future of health care in this country not just for next November, not just for a year from now, but for decades into the future. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is so critical, so critical that we develop a near-term, a mid-term and a long-term plan or strategy when it comes to crafting our health care policy. Sadly, I don't think this House has really been engaged in that process. We have been more fascinated by the political aspects of the fight. 
   Mr. Speaker, indeed, medicine is at a critical crossroads. This is a time of great transformation within the science. Down one of these pathways is a whole new genre of personalized care, changes in information technology, changes in the study of the human genome, changes in protein science, changes in imaging, the speed of information transfer; and indeed a time of rapid learning all serve to increase value for the patient. 
   Late last week at a conference downtown, Dr. Elias A. Zerhouni, the head of the National Institutes of Health put it in terms of the four Ps. He described a type of medicine in the future which will be predictive, personalized, preemptive, and participatory. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, down the other path leads to the continued expansion of the reach and grasp of the Federal Government. Could this path equate to increased value for the patient? Well, the answer might be yes, but history has not been kind to that experience so far for this type of trajectory. The trend tends to become process driven, intensely process driven to a greater and greater degree rather than creating a true patient-centered environment. 
   Medical care, in fact, could be rationed in some of the most insidious ways that medical care can be rationed, and that is in the treatment room itself. That is by not paying for the care, not paying for the imaging, not paying for the physician services,  having the physician not be there for the patient in the treatment room. That is the type of rationing that we may be talking about. 
   It becomes all about the transaction, very little attention being paid to delivering value for the patient. And, Mr. Speaker, no secret about it, I am a physician. I practiced for 25 years back in my home State of Texas. I will tell you, this is also injurious to providers. It is injurious to doctors. And that, in turn, increases an already existing problem with the physician workforce and aggravates an already existing supply-and-demand inequity. This, in turn, creates a further imbalance between workforce required versus workforce produced. 
   Prices are then set administratively rather than by the marketplace, and this disconnect heightens the insensitivity to market demands, and indeed, we end up with a system much as we see today where physicians are anesthetized as to the true cost of delivering the care that they deliver, and, in turn, the patient is unaware of the cost of the care that they receive. And this becomes a true hindrance to the transformational process itself. Again, the process becomes entirely transactional, and this hinders, or reverses, the transformational process. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, I would like for us to consider three events, or three epics in the last hundred years where health care policy and changes in science kind of came together to alter, fundamentally alter, the way medicine is practiced and alter it forever into the future. 
   The first time would be early in the last century, 1910 to 1920, where significant advances in medicine 
   including new discoveries related to immunizations, advances in public hygiene, discoveries of anesthesia and modern blood banking weren't too far removed from that era, but they did occur a little bit earlier. That was such a far cry from the way medicine had been practiced up even into the late part of the 19th century. Back then, the order of the day was burning, bleeding, and blistering; and those were accepted as scientifically proven ways to deliver value or to deliver care for the patient. So there was a rapid change in the science that was going on, and there also occurred that intersection of a sudden change in public policy that, again, altered the direction of medical care forever after then. 
   In fact, now the policy that was developed we pretty much regard as a State function. And it is ultimately a change in State policy. It did originate at the Federal level with the commissioning of what became known as the Flexner Commission, which subsequently delivered the Flexner Report. This report, delivered to Congress in 1910, characterized the uneven structure of medical schools across the country. Indeed, the variability of medical schools was truly startling. As a consequence of the Flexner Report, there was a standardization of medical school curricula at a time when the science was, indeed, rapidly advancing. This set the stage for the transformation of medicine literally out of the Dark Ages into the illumination of the 21st century. 
   Then let's skip forward several decades, Mr. Speaker, to the 1940s. And again we see vast changes occurring. Penicillin had been discovered a little bit before that. Back in 1928, Sir Alexander Fleming, we all know Sir Alexander Fleming, there is a big statue erected to him by the bullfighters because he obviously changed the way bullfighting injuries could be treated, but penicillin was discovered in 1928. It was really little more than a laboratory curiosity at first, this substance produced by a mold that would inhibit the growth of bacteria on an agar plate in a Petri dish, but only small amounts could be produced, and it was fairly labor intensive and extremely expensive. So it is a compound that showed great promise, but there really was no way amenable for treating large numbers of patients so its social impact was really quite, quite muted. 
   But then came the discovery of new fermentation techniques in this country in the 1940s. Suddenly, penicillin moved from a laboratory curiosity to a compound that was readily available, readily available in the clinics and dispensaries across the country, readily available and the price subsequently came down significantly. This new life-saving antibiotic was even available to treat our soldiers who were wounded during the invasion and the landing in Normandy in 1944. For the first time battlefield medicine had a way of combating infected wounds which obviously had a significant impact on saving life and limb. 
   Now, a similar story could be told about cortisone. It had been discovered prior to the 1940s, but the production of cortisone was very labor intensive. In fact, you had to derive it from the adrenal glands of oxen so it required someone going down to the slaughterhouse and collecting these glands and then doing whatever extractive process that was required to pull the cortisone out. So you can imagine that there just wasn't a lot of cortisone available and what was available was pretty expensive to produce. 
   But a bright young scientist name Percy Julian, and parenthetically, Mr. Speaker, we honored Dr. Julian here in this House in the last Congress, an African American scientist of great renown and turned out to be responsible for a great number of discoveries in the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s. And it was appropriate that this House honored his memory. 
   But Percy Julian discovered a way of producing cortisone in large amounts using precursors that he derived from a plant product, from soybeans. Thus, again, a medicine which had heretofore been only a laboratory curiosity or a research oddity became readily available, became readily available in large supply, and the price fell to within reach of the average patient. 
   So in the 1940s, we see the near-simultaneous introduction of large-scale quantities of an anti-infective agent, penicillin, and an anti-inflammatory agent, cortisone; and that was to forever alter the landscape of medicine.     
   But, at the same time, we saw the intersection, again, of a major policy change and how that policy change has affected and has impacted the practice of medicine now for decades into the future. In some ways, in many ways, Mr. Speaker, that change in policy, that social change that occurred in medicine at that time had just as profound an effect as the scientific advances of the 1940s. Of course, during the 1940s we were a country at war. The Second World War was raging. Because a lot of the workforce was tied up in fighting that war, there weren't many people left to do the manufacturing work in this country, but it was work that was required because, after all, they were producing for the war effort. 
   So, employers wanted to keep their employees working, they wanted to keep them happy, they wanted to keep them healthy, but the President issued wage and price controls so employers were not able to pay higher and higher wages. The President did this with all good reasons, to prevent an inflationary spiral from getting out of control. With wage and price controls on, employers looked around: Well, how are we going to improve things for our employees so they will want to stay here working for us and won't go off looking for work in some other location? They hit upon the idea of providing benefits to their employees, both health insurance benefits and retirement benefits. 
   Well, there was a lot of controversy over whether or not that violated the spirit and the context of the wage and price controls. So they did what all good people do; they went to court and eventually it worked its way up to the Supreme Court. In 1944, the Supreme Court ruled that indeed these health benefits that were being provided to employees could be provided without violating the spirit and the intent of the wage and price controls. Moreover, that these benefits could be supplied to the patient with pre-tax dollars; that is, they were not a taxed benefit given to the employee. 
   So, simultaneously, we had the era of employer-derived health insurance ushered in, which has proved to be exceedingly popular and endures to the present time. Although it has experienced some problems recently, it is still a very popular way for people to obtain their health insurance coverage. Also, near simultaneously, we began the time of the uneven tax treatment between employer-provided insurance as opposed to individually owned or individually provided insurance, which is paid for with after-tax dollars.  
   So then, Mr. Speaker, we fast-forward to 1965. Again, there were vast changes occurring in the science and medicine. At that time, new antipsychotic medicines were introduced, and for the first time the mentally ill could be treated with medication as opposed to simply restraining someone or holding someone in an incarcerated environment. So it truly changed the landscape of medicine in the mid-1960s. 
   Also, at that time you had the introduction of antidepressant medications. Although the antidepressants have undergone many, many changes since that time, for the first time medication was available to treat a condition of depression, and this opened up whole new worlds for treatment of patients in the 1960s. 
   Newer antibiotics were introduced to fight more aggressive infections. There was the beginning of the understanding that biochemistry played in the development of coronary artery disease, why high cholesterol had an impact and was important in the subsequent development of coronary artery disease. And, Mr. Speaker, conditions like malignant hypertension, which had claimed President Franklin Roosevelt the generation before, now saw newer medications that were available to treat this malady, medications that had not been previously available. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, again, there was that intersection of public policy which combined with rapid changes in the scientific arena to forever alter the landscape of the practice of medicine. In 1965 we saw the introduction of a program that we now know as Medicare, and then subsequently the Medicaid system was introduced in the years that followed. Now, for the first time, for the first time the Federal Government had an established role in paying for health care. Again, the medical world was forever altered. 
   Mr. Speaker, now in the present time we find ourselves in a highly political year. Health care is foremost in a lot of people's minds, particularly those that seek to lead the country via the office of the Presidency. The next administration is likely to be under significant pressure for the expansion of the Federal role in delivery of health care. Indeed, we see evidence of that now with the debate that is occurring over the State Children's Health Insurance Program. 
   Before we get to the State Children's Health Insurance Program, Mr. Speaker, history tells us that policy makers will, we will put the emphasis on the transactional and the administrative aspects of health care reform and we'll ignore the transformational process as it is occurring all around us. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it is helpful to consider what is the unit of production of this vast American medical machine that is all around us. In its simplest terms, the unit of production is the interaction that occurs between the doctor and the patient in the treatment room. That is the widget. That is what the American medical system produces. 
   So all of our focus, all of our focus should be directed at driving up or delivering value at the level of the doctor-patient interaction. But all too often, all too often, our attention is diverted into other things. This, in turn, degrades the doctor-patient interaction. 
   Now, at the health fair's 25th anniversary symposium downtown last Thursday, Dr. Mark McClelland, former Director of the Food and Drug Administration, former Director of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, started off his talk with: We want to know what works best at the lowest cost for each patient. In a nutshell, that is what personalized medicine is all about. 
   Right now we don't know. We don't know. But that concept defines a whole new era of the type of medicine that will be practiced in the latter part of our lifetimes, and indeed in our children's lifetimes and certainly in our children's children's lifetimes. That's the type of medicine that we will be practicing. Short-term gains in affordability, unfortunately, could lead to long-term stifling of patient access and interfering with the supply-demand relationship that occurs and exists in the medical marketplace. Certainly accountability may suffer with the subsequent reduction in quality because, quite frankly, the best and the brightest may self-exclude themselves from the medical workforce. Thus, we could have a situation where care is delivered by those who do not represent the best and brightest physicians or perhaps physician extenders or other paramedical personnel, and the overall quality of medical care to what, arguably, is the most challenging group of patients, our seniors, that might be further eroded. 
   Advancements in medicine might be placed in peril. Indeed, it is some of the tension in the current system, that hybrid system that is part public and part private. It is partly the tension that exists in that system that is a dynamic for change. Not all the change is good, but generally, generally it moves in the right direction. 
   Mr. Speaker, I'd ask us to consider for a moment the dilemma of health information technology. When I first came to Congress in 2003, the Department of Health and Human Services said it's going to develop a platform for the establishment of a national information technology effort. In fact, please, Congress, don't do anything right now because we are going to do this. We are going to establish this platform. We are going to get it right, and industry will follow what we do. Unfortunately, that reality has yet to be delivered. 
   Now, there are some bright spots. There is advanced informational technology within the Veterans Administration, but it lacks the interoperability with the system used by the Department of Defense, and this lack of interoperability may well have been the root cause for some of the problems encountered by our soldiers on medical hold at Walter Reed Hospital. Let me just give you an example of that, Mr. Speaker. 
   Mr. Speaker, of course The Washington Post broke the story, I believe, in January of this year about some of the treatment being received by some of our soldiers at Walter Reed Hospital. So, like many Members of Congress, within a week I took a trip out to Walter Reed Hospital, and indeed the physical characteristics of Building 18, the building in question, were deplorable, and the building was appropriately decommissioned and those soldiers were moved into more reasonable accommodations actually inside the campus of the Walter Reed Medical Center. 
   Building 18 was outside the garrison, it was outside the actual confines of the campus of the Medical Center, and, as a consequence, that made it desirable for some individuals. But the reality was the building itself was just not up to standards, not up to code, and realistically our soldiers on medical hold should not have been there. 
   What happens too, Mr. Speaker, is soldiers on medical hold, they are trying to decide if the injuries that they are there for which they are being treated are serious enough that they will now be discharged from the military and their care will transition over to the Veterans Administration system so it will be more of a disability-type of assessment that they undergo, or are their injuries such that they can in fact rejoin their unit. The individuals in that situation are placed on what is called medical hold, and there were facilities outside the garrison at Walter Reed Hospital to house those individuals on medical hold. 
   Now, here is a picture of Master Sergeant Blades, who took me around and showed me the rooms in Building 18 that were the point of some contention. But Master Sergeant Blades told me when I was there that the real problem he and his men were encountering, yes, the accommodations were crummy, but the real tragedy was the work that went into preparation of this medical record, the Department of Defense medical record, in getting it ready to send over to the Veterans Administration to perhaps make the case for the disability, make the case for what the disability allowances should be, what the disability payments should be, what care could be available at the VA hospital. 
   He said that he would spend hours and hours and hours preparing his medical chart, highlighting things with a yellow highlighter. This large chart in front of him, it looks about the size of the Washington, DC phone book, would then go sit on a desk for 2 weeks and then be lost and he would have to start all over again.  
   I said, well, wait a minute. I thought the VA system had this new fancy computer equipment and that this should no longer be a speaker. But as it turns out, Mr. Speaker, the Department of Defense can't speak to the computers in the VA system, and, as a consequence, it depends entirely on a hand-prepared record, and you see Master Sergeant Blades there preparing it as we visited that day at Walter Reed Hospital. 
   Here in Congress, the legislative process dealing with health information technology is completely stalled. We had a chance to act last year in the last Congress. The bills we were considering were to provide either grants or buying equipment outright for medical practices. But in the end, we couldn't get our work done, and the current legislative attempts that we see this year seem even more desperate and futile from those of last year. We have gone from bad to worse. 
   Considerable expense could be borne by individuals in private practice, physicians in private practice, trying to purchase or upgrade equipment. These informational systems and costs and learning of the operating of these new systems are significant barriers to entry. 
   Relaxation or moderation of what are known as the Stark laws could allow for hospitals and doctors to be cooperative and involve themselves in the investment in this type of technology. But barriers to entry for physicians are that the equipment is expensive. And in addition to the initial cost and the cost of maintenance and the cost of software and the cost of software upgrades, there is a problem: If there is no established criteria for interoperability, how is a guy out in private practice or a lady out in private practice who goes and buys a computer system from a vendor, how are they to know that they are making the correct purchase at all? 
   Now, that is the public sector. That is the government working on this. Remember one of the things I first said, the change of the speed of delivery of information is one of the things that is going to transform medicine. We are kind of stuck here and have been stuck here for 4 or 5 years. 
   What is happening on the private sector? Consider the experience of Aetna Insurance Company. A single company employing 34,000 individuals and has 15 percent of its workforce involved with information administration and maintenance. In fact, according to their CEO, if the Aetna Information and Technology Department was a standalone company, it would be one of the largest software development firms in the United States of America. 
   They have developed a Web-based electronic health record, not an electronic medical record controlled by the doctor, but a Web-based electronic health record that is controlled by the patient, the access is controlled by the patient, and that is available then to a patient anywhere in the country where they have computer access. 
   So, if they are traveling and they have got a medical condition that is under pretty tight control and good control at home and they have a problem, that information can be handed over to the treating physician in an emergency room at a distant location, because all that information is going to be available to them up on the Web. And when that patient returns home and returns to their doctor at home, the information derived, the testing done by that doctor in the different location, will be available to the patient when they return to their home for care.     
   Mr. Speaker, I have to tell you, I haven't always been a big believer in things like computerized medical records. Sometimes they are hard to learn. There is a learning curve associated with them. It takes some time to get up to speed with them. No one is interested in paying for the time it takes to get up to speed. 
   But in January 2006, taking my second trip down to the City of New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina came through there, all of the water came in, this is the basement of Charity Hospital. The water has been removed. You can't see in the picture, but there was still water about ankle deep. This is just one of hundreds of rows of charts as you might imagine a hospital of that size might contain. 
   This black here, they haven't been burned, this is mold growing on the medical records. This vault now is a hazmat site. Someone wanting to review a record for a patient would have to take extraordinary precautions not to inhale the spores from the mold when they opened the record. These records are unusable and unavailable and no one knows what has been lost here. There might be someone's leukemia, childhood asthma; those records are lost forever. This changed my mind on the concept of having an electronic medical record or, as Aetna has developed, an electronic health record that is owned and controlled by the patient and is Web-based. 
   Mr. Speaker, I ask which system now, remember my fundamental criteria: Do we deliver value to the doctor-patient interaction in the treatment room? Which system is delivering value to the doctor-patient interaction in the treatment room right now? Is that what we are doing at Health and Human Services, where we are trying to get things up and running, develop a national platform and one of these days we are going to roll this out? Or in the Halls of Congress, we are going to craft legislation if we can get the pieces right. But watch out, the unintended consequences of that legislation may turn around and bite you when you try to practice medicine a few years in the future. 
   Or the experience at Aetna U.S. Health Care. You have one system that is mired in entrenched bureaucratic wrangling, and the other one providing real data for real patients and advancing their health. Which system is making the maximum capital investment at the same time demanding accountability to deliver value for its covered individuals? Which system continues to hamper the growth and development of the technology that everyone acknowledges is necessary to bring medicine into the next generation? 
   I talked about a short-term, mid-term and long-term strategy. That long-term strategy is the explosion in health infomatics that is going to bring us the type of personalized care we want in the future. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, the American medical system takes a fair amount of criticism from around the world. I want to bring to the attention of this House the Washington Post and the Wall Street Journal today, two stories in two different newspapers today talking about some things that are happening when you export American medicine, American know-how, American technology half the way around the world. 
   From the ``World in Brief'' section under the heading of Afghanistan: ``Six years after the Taliban's ouster, medical care in Afghanistan has improved such that nearly 90,000 children who would have died before the age of 5 in 2001 will survive this year.'' That's thanks to the efforts of the United States Agency for International Development that has brought modern American medical technology to the country of Afghanistan. They still have a long ways to go, but I thought I would share that with the House. 
   Another story from the Wall Street Journal about how we export American technical medical know-how to other countries. This is actually in the ``Marketplace'' section of today's Wall Street Journal. The title is: ``Health care building booms in the Persian Gulf.'' It says that the region's families are recruiting brand-name U.S. medical institutions and private investors with plans over the next 20 years to more than quadruple the estimated $12 billion spent annually on health care. They are essentially trying to duplicate Harvard Medical School and its residency programs at the Massachusetts General Hospital in the City of Dubai. 
   As I stated previously, we are at a transformational time in medicine. There are changes occurring on many fronts. At the same time, we have the intersection of changes in public policy which can vastly affect the practice of medicine for years, decades into the future. 
   Mr. Speaker, there is a risk here. If health care policies are based on political expediency, and if they are not patient-centered, there is a risk of continuing to be beholden to the special interests and not empowering patients. There is a risk of delivering for the status quo and not delivering for the future.  
   Indeed, the transactional could triumph over the transformational. Prevention of this scenario will require development of, certainly with physician leaders within the house of medicine, they have to be engaged for their patients and not for the enduring bureaucracies or special interests. We do have some relatively new products that have emerged on the scene in the last several years. Health savings accounts and their precursors, medical savings accounts, are just a little over 10 years old, and they show some significant promise by putting purchasing power back in the hands of the patient and rekindling that doctor-patient relationship that has been so many times stifled by the current system. 
   Improvements to the health savings accounts could include methods for paying for preventive care and adding new coverage to include disease management for chronic conditions. In other words, move health savings accounts from the type of patient that is only going to purchase one because they don't think they will get ever get sick, to the type of patient who knows they have a medical condition but they want the power over their medical condition, and a medical savings account is a way to do that in an affordability fashion and still retain power over their illness. 
   Mr. Speaker, we should encourage new thinking by third-party payers. At some companies that is going on already. It could help move borders for affordability. A business that provides a premium reduction for individuals who engage in preventive practices and periodic screenings would represent a reasonable way to deliver increased affordability. It is a way of delivering value for the patient. 
   If the legislators and Federal agency personnel have the vision and discipline to focus on the long term, we may yet see delivery on the promise of the pending transformation in American medicine. 
   Mr. Speaker, former Speaker of this House, Newt Gingrich, in his book on transformation, I think his second principle of transformation where he asserts real change requires real change. What does he mean by that? He means in order to affect real change, you have to walk the talk. There has to be a culture and leadership not just embracing of the concept of change, but they have to act on it. They have to live it and breathe it and work it every single day. That is a valid concept, and I think the Speaker is right on the money when he brings that concept up. 
   But look at it another way. Real change requires real change. There is real change occurring in medicine, whether Congress knows it or not, whether Congress likes it or not, and whether Congress helps it or not. Real change is occurring in American medicine right now. Because of that real change that is occurring in the science part of medicine, real change is required here in this Congress, in the other body as to how we approach our health care policy so, again, we don't let the transactional become the enemy of the transformational. 
   Mr. Speaker, a short-term, a mid-term and a long-term strategy are essential, and we must avoid sacrificing this concept and giving it all up for short-term political gain, which brings us back to the subject of the State Children's Health Insurance Program. When I think of health care policy, I try to put it in the context of what is delivering value for that doctor-patient interaction in the treatment room, not the cost, but what delivers value to that interaction. 
   What diminishes value? What happens if we have a significant negative effect on the physicians who are providing the care for our pediatric patients? Is there a cost to providers for shifting populations from commercial insurance onto public insurance? Well, I believe there is. 
   Mr. Speaker, I don't really know why and where insurance companies get the idea it is okay to only partially cover the cost of providing care, but I have a suspicion they get that because that's the way the Federal reimbursement structure works. That is the way it works in Medicare and Medicaid; and if we expand the reach and grasp of the Federal Government in the SCHIP program, I think we will find to the detriment that process is alive and well and subsequently we have the negative effect on the physician workforce. 
   Mr. Speaker, before I yield to other speakers, let me bring up this slide from the American Enterprise Institute. This points out at successive income levels, and these are rated at the percentage of the Federal poverty level, so here is between 100 and 200 percent of the Federal poverty level. This is about $41,000 to $42,000 a year. Here is between 200 to 300 percent of the Federal poverty level, so that is up to just over $60,000 a year. And 400 percent of poverty would represent a figure of over $80,000 a year. 
   So in the group between 100 and 200 percent of poverty, and this is the group that SCHIP was originally designed to cover, about half of those children have private coverage. If you move into the 300 percent of Federal poverty limit, they earn up to $60,000 a year, three-quarters of those kids already have health insurance. And nine out of 10 and 95 percent have health insurance. Why do we want to go and take these children who are already covered and bring them back into the SCHIP program? Are we delivering value to the patient? Are we furthering the concept of good patient care? 
   Mr. Speaker, I would point out that on the floor of this House 2 weeks ago when we had the debate on the new State Children's Health Insurance Program bill that we passed which was exactly like the one that the President vetoed and we sustained, when we were debating the new bill, I asked the chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce to enter into a colloquy with me, and he graciously did. We talked about State income set-asides. If the bill said that the maximum amount available for coverage under the program was 300 percent of the Federal poverty limit, so a little over $60,000, where again three-quarters of those children already have insurance, if that is our upward limit of coverage, were there income exclusions available to the State that could take that upper income level even higher, and I asked specifically about the cost of housing. And indeed within the bill was the language that States could exclude $20,000 of annual income involved in housing. And States could exclude $10,000 of annual income that is there for clothing. And States could exclude $10,000 of annual income that is available for transportation. Mr. Speaker, we are already over $100,000 in annual earnings for a family of four when we talk about this bill that was introduced and passed by this House. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am just a simple country doctor and there is so much about the budgeting process that I don't understand that I am so grateful that I have been joined by the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Garrett) who sits on both our Budget Committee and our Committee on Financial Services. I think he is going to provide us all with some valuable insight as to some of the numbers involved in this process. 
   So I do now want to yield the floor to the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Garrett). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (AMERICAN MEDICINE TODAY -- (House of Representatives - November 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Yes. You're very kind to point that out, and those writings, as well as several other musings and lamentations are available on my Web site. The bulk of the writing on the Web site is devoted to health policy because obviously that is one of my interests and one of my passions. So  there's a good deal of information available; www.house.gov/burgess will take, scrolling back through the previous stories will give someone an insight as to what's available on the Web site. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (AMERICAN MEDICINE TODAY -- (House of Representatives - November 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. One of the points that I probably did not make eloquently enough tonight is that the practicing pediatrician, not the pediatrician in an academic setting, not the pediatrician in a federally qualified health center, but the pediatrician is out there with a mix of different payer groups in his practice or her practice. 
   The average reimbursement for a child on the SCHIP program is about 30 percent less in my State of Texas than it is for one of the commercial insurances. If we take those children off of commercial insurance and move them to an SCHIP program, we are negatively impacting the bottom line of the pediatrician who is providing the care. We can only do that for so long before they will decide that they have got something else that they might do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (AMERICAN MEDICINE TODAY -- (House of Representatives - November 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. One of the things before the time completely leaves us, I just want to draw attention to a recent poll put out by U.S.A. Today that does show that the plurality of Americans, a majority of American citizens, believe that the benefits in the SCHIP program should go to poor children first, and that's not to the children at the upper-income levels that we were showing on the other slide. That is the group of children for which this program was originally intended, that is children whose parents make too much money to qualify for Medicaid, yet not enough money to reliably afford their health insurance. 
   When this program was first enacted in 1997, by a Republican Congress with a Democratic President when this program was first enacted, that was a group of children that the Congress was trying to help. The concept of poor children first is one that the American people embraced. 
   In fact, I introduced legislation earlier this year, H.R. 1013, that would have put the children back in SCHIP and removed adults from the program. Now, I am grateful, very grateful that the Democratic majority has now embraced that concept and at least their  latest iteration of the SCHIP reauthorization bill said that there will be no adults on the program within one year of the enactment of the bill. 
   It's a bittersweet victory because there are so many other aspects of the bill that are flawed that Mr. Garrett has just alluded to. The funding mechanism absolutely disappears in the fourth year of the program. The funding mechanism itself is based on a belief that there will be an increasing number of smokers in this country, and public policies that I support to decrease the number of smokers and decrease the number of young people who begin this habit. 
   It makes no sense to be saying we are going to fund this entire program based upon that type of tax and, on the other hand, try to put our maximal effort behind trying to reduce the number of smokers in this country. It is certainly a conflicted mindset that the Democratic majority seems to be propounding here. 
   One of the other things that I do want to bring up just before we close, another poll from U.S.A. Today that the American people are concerned, are concerned that the program as proposed would pull those children off of private health insurance and put them onto a government plan. 
   Then as Mr. Garrett so eloquently pointed out, then the funding dries up, and where are you then? At the same time, if you have driven pediatricians out of practice because of lower reimbursement rates, you have now the trifecta, the triple whammy, where health care for children may be seriously jeopardized in the mid-term or the long-term because of the fact that we are sacrificing for political expediency today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (REPUBLICAN ENERGY POLICY -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman for yielding.  
   You know, it seems like, this late at night, all that's left are gentlemen from Texas, but I'm happy to be here as part of this august group. 
   The gentleman from Georgia mentioned that we're about to go home on a 5-week vacation. You know, I'd like to say it has been a tough summer and that we've been working away on our appropriations bills, but the fact is we'll have our very first appropriations bill on the floor of the House tomorrow, the Military Construction bill. I'm glad to see it. I'm glad we're going to have it, but we're actually not going to have an open amendment process, and part of the reason is that the Democratic leadership is afraid to have the open amendment process for fear that we'll actually bring up something that might expand the availability of energy in this country. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, there are not a lot of bright spots out there when it comes to energy. We've got record high prices. We've got alternative energy sources that aren't quite ready for prime time. Our refining capacity is limited because we haven't built a refinery since 1976. Supplies are tight, and there's an enormous demand. It paints a fairly grim picture, but dwelling on the negative is not the American way. Exploring the possibilities and capitalizing on realities, that's the American way. 
   So, today, as we are in a very tough energy environment, let's act like Americans. Let's make lemonade out of lemons. We can start by seizing the opportunity to find and produce homemade American energy. We've heard a lot about exploring and drilling for American sources of energy hands down. Hands down, Americans agree on this point. I did two town halls over the weekend--one in Keller, Texas and one in Frisco, Texas. There was unanimous opinion that we need to be producing more American energy domestically. 
   Polls show that the vast majority of Americans favor offshore drilling for oil and natural gas and, in fact, even in ANWR. In my districts back in Tarrant, Denton and Cooke Counties, the numbers are sky high. Without question, if we want to produce American energy, we should drill domestically. 
   You know, we need to refine domestically also, and we can start by providing our Nation's largest energy consumer, the military, with the infrastructure to do just that. As one of the Nation's largest energy consumers, the United States Department of Defense is straining under record high prices. We heard Mr. Shimkus from Illinois address this just a moment ago. 
   In 2007, with operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, the United States Armed Services consumed 16 gallons of fuel per soldier per day, about $3 million worth of fuel. That's a lot of gas, but it's not just regular gasoline. All military planes, vehicles and heavy equipment use avgas, or jet petroleum, to avoid carrying different fuel grades or to avoid accidentally putting the wrong kind of fuel in the equipment. It's a specialized fuel that's produced in the same refineries that produce fuel for commercial sale. 
   Right now, global refineries are operating at very tight capacity. This, in turn, limits the quantities of gasoline and other products that they can produce. The squeeze impacts the consumers, and it impacts the military as the cost of refining compromises 10 to 20 percent of the price we pay at the pump. It means taxpayers are hit with higher costs twice, and it also leaves supplies vulnerable to disruptions ranging from terrorist attacks to political unrest to--oh, by the way, did we mention it's hurricane season? 
   Then there's the question of importing refined products rather than producing them here in America. Because domestic refining capacity has declined as industry operates with lower inventories of crude oil and of gasoline in order to cut their costs, these constraints mean a greater proportion of gasoline demand has to be met with imported goods, with imported goods. We hear it over and over again. We're buying the supplies from people who in the world don't exactly like us. We are funding both sides on the war on terror. 
   Four out of five of the top suppliers for military fuel are, in fact, foreign suppliers. This poses a serious threat to our national economy and to our national security, and it has to be stopped. Investing in critical infrastructure and protecting the Nation are some of the Federal Government's top responsibilities. 
   So, tomorrow, on the Military Construction appropriations bill--and we will finally be hearing our first Appropriations bill here on the House floor--I plan to offer an amendment, the Joint Defense Energy Production amendment. It provides Federal funding for the construction and for the design of one refinery for each branch of the military, combining these two critical roles for the public good. 
   Prices are high and so is demand. Let's try to solve both sides of the energy equation. The amendment would provide $400 million to build refineries that would produce the specialized types and grades of fuel that are used by each branch of the Service for their equipment. The refineries will be located on existing or on former bases under the control of the Department of Defense, and they will represent the first refineries built in the United States of America in 31 years. 
   Again, let me stress this is a win-win for America. These military-specific refineries could produce and protect specialized military fuels from capacity limitations that squeeze supply and that increase prices for almost everyone. They would free up commercial refining capacity and would ensure that we're not forced to outsource a significant portion of our refining needs to foreign countries. Additionally, they would help ensure a supply chain that would help protect from supply chain disruptions whether from manmade or from natural 
   disasters like those we've experienced in the past. 
   There's a military saying: Bullets don't fly without supply. The Air Force is not going to have a fleet of plug-in hybrid fighter jets, and our Navy is not going to be relying on a solar-powered, wind-blown vessel. They need a stable and secure fuel supply, plain and simple. Our national defense and our economic security are simply too important to risk on shortages of refinery capacity or on natural disasters. We have the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. We have a strategic oil supply, but what good is that if there is no way to strategically refine that supply? 
   So, tomorrow, I hope other Members will join me in supporting the Joint Defense Energy Production amendment that I plan on offering on the Military Construction appropriations bill tomorrow. It's high time we got to our appropriations bills, and it's highly appropriate that, particularly on the Military Construction bill, we offer amendments to increase the energy supply for our Nation's military. 
   I'll yield back to the gentleman from Texas, and I appreciate the time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (ADVANCED FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - February 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chairman, this amendment which was preprinted in the Congressional Record will ensure that the Environmental Protection Agency Biofuels Research and Development Program, which was authorized in the underlying bill, will be cognizant of the potential clean air issues arising from additives to biofuels. Specifically, those issues arising from volatile emissions which occur during the fueling process and nitrogen oxide emissions which occur during combustion. 
   In my home State of Texas, and particularly within my district in north Texas, there has been some debate about the nitrous oxide emissions from biodiesel. It is my hope that the new data from the Environmental Protection Agency will put this debate to rest and allow biodiesel production to move forward unimpeded. But the debate raises an interesting question. As we look to increase the use of alternative fuels and the accompanying infrastructure, how do we make certain, how can we be sure that we do not hurt our efforts, that we do not roll back our efforts to clean our air? 
   I understand that there are some additives that may already exist for alternative fuels. In fact, I know of one approved for use in Texas for the low emission diesel that has proven to be safe and effective at reducing the nitrous oxide emissions in ultra-low sulfur diesel. It has also been shown to cut the nitrous oxide emissions in biodiesel and to eliminate the NO  
   x bump that some researchers have shown for biodiesel. But we must examine this issue as we move forward to other alternative fuels and additives. 
   This amendment will ensure that we prevent any emissions problems associated with the new additives early, at the research and development stages, before any additives may get to market. 
   I think the underlying bill is a good bill, and I thank my friend from Texas for introducing it. I look forward to supporting it again this year. But I think this amendment can improve the bill to ensure that we address any clean air problems, address them at the beginning before they start. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (ADVANCED FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - February 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chairman, I will be supportive of the Eshoo amendment if it is offered as a stand-alone amendment, but I do oppose it being offered as a secondary amendment. 
   I do ask for a consideration of my amendment as a clean amendment. It is stronger. It is more expansive because obviously it addresses the mobile sources, as well as the static sources, that may be a source of emissions. 
   While Mr. Cardoza is correct in the issuance of a study, this is a research and development bill; and as such, it is appropriate to study the effects of the emissions of biodiesel and add that concept to the substance of the underlying bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (ADVANCED FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - February 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I am going to assume that the gentleman is not speaking in favor of increased nitrous oxide emissions. But then do I understand, would the intent of the bill be that the truck that is transporting the ethanol to the retailer would not be allowed to burn biofuels? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (ADVANCED FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - February 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. But under that scenario you would not be able to burn biofuels in that 18-wheeler that was caught carrying the ethanol to the retailer. 
   Mr. Chairman, it is my understanding that this was a research and development bill, and we keep hearing it referred to as an infrastructure bill. I appreciate that infrastructure will follow from that research and development, but as we are studying this problem, as we are studying it from the origination, whether it be the cornfield or the Fry Oil to Fuel program, we are studying it from its origination to its end point. In my estimation, that end point should be the emissions that are emitted at the fuel pipe. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (ADVANCED FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - February 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chairman, I won't spend a lot of time expanding on why we need to reduce our reliance on foreign energy. I think it has been well stated this morning. Most of us recognize, just looking at a picture of the leader of Venezuela, what the problem is. 
   We recognize when we see what is happening in Nigeria and other areas, the Middle East, what the situation is. And our energy position is not sustainable within the United States. So homegrown fuels, such as biodiesel, can help move the United States toward greater energy independence. 
   Mr. Chairman, as animal feed prices rise because of increased use of corn for ethanol, we need to examine ways to increase alternative fuels without reducing arable land use for farming. 
   Mr. Chairman, there is a small company back home in my district in Texas, Biodiesel Industries, and they have discovered how to make biodiesel from a variety of feedstock. Yes, they use the usual soybean and sunflower oils, but they also manufacture it from recycled restaurant grease, and we have got an abundance of recyclable restaurant grease in the DFW area. 
   Biodiesel Industries runs a Fry Oil to Fuel program which recycles used vegetable oils into biodiesel. Over 130 restaurants, schools, businesses and large kitchens in the metroplex have signed up to participate. Small restaurant owners typically have to pay for a grease collection or simply throw it away, but as part of the Fry Oil to Fuel program, both the recycling service  and the collection container are provided at no cost. 
   Large companies, on the other hand, often have contracts with animal feedlots, which could increase the risk of illnesses such as Bovine Spongiform Encephalosis and other animal neurologic diseases. If the grease goes into landfills, it creates methane, which we know is a potent greenhouse gas, much more potent than carbon dioxide. That landfill methane can be captured and used to create electricity, which is what Bioindustries does, but most often this methane is just simply vented into the atmosphere. If the grease goes into feedlots, it creates what we could politely refer to as bovine methane, again, a potent source of greenhouse gasses. 
   Putting that grease to work as part of our fuel supply helps to increase our energy supply here at home and could actually help to clean up our air. 
   This is not just happening in my district in north Texas. There are other facilities around the country doing this very same type of biodiesel protection. 
   The American Jobs Creation Act provided an agri-biodiesel tax credit of $1 per gallon for biodiesel from virgin agricultural production, and 50 cents per gallon for biodiesel from recycled grease through 2006. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 extended these credits through 2008. 
   My amendment would simply double the tax rate for making biodiesel from recycled restaurant grease from 50 cents to $1 a gallon, making it financially comparable to those from virgin agricultural sources. The text is identical to H.R. 6354, which I introduced at the close of the 109th Congress. 
   I believe this issue is of paramount importance. We must encourage our citizens and our entrepreneurs to think outside the box in reducing our reliance on foreign energy. 
   I want to thank my friend and colleague from the State of Texas (Mr. Sessions) for his support on this amendment, both in the Rules Committee yesterday as well as speaking so eloquently in support of the rule today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (ADVANCED FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - February 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chairman, earlier during this process, the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Ferguson) and I offered an amendment, but it did not receive a clean vote. I have redrafted the amendment to more comprehensively addressed emissions from the increased use of biofuels or additives covered in the research and development program in this bill. 
   Republicans and Democrats should be thought of as being environmentally friendly, and I found myself in the position of arguing for a more stringent standard than some of my Democratic colleagues. 
   Mr. Chairman, MTBE was an additive. Additives can cause environmental harm. We need to look at this all the way through the fuel cycle, beginning at the R&D phase, through combustion, through emission. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HONORING TONY SNOW -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor tonight to honor the memory of Tony Snow, commentator, news anchor, White House press secretary, a husband and father. The great American. We lost Tony this last weekend, and it's a tremendous loss for his family, for his colleagues and indeed, for the Nation. 
   It's also a great loss for humanity at large. Since Tony lost his battle with cancer on July 12, many Americans have heard stories about his wit, his humor, and his devotion to his family. I have a story of my own that I would like to share about Tony, a story that shows that Tony was very much a man of his word. 
   Mr. Speaker, there are certain privileges that come with being a servant here in the people's House. For me, one of those privileges is from time to time being able to go to 1600 Pennsylvania  Avenue. Whether it is a meeting or a social event, a trip to the White House is always a big deal. It's always exciting. 
   It was on one of those trips to the White House that I had the great fortune to meet Tony Snow. I didn't set out to meet Tony Snow that day. It happened because I had something that I had been asked to share with the President. It was a letter. It was a letter brought back by a soldier from Iraq. It was a letter that was handwritten by an Iraqi woman. It was a letter that was taken to this soldier early one summer Iraqi morning, the heat, the dust, the barriers, the wire; and this woman made her way up to the checkpoint and handed this letter to the soldier and said, Can you get this to President Bush? 
   The soldier lived in my district back in north Texas. So after he came home, he brought the letter with him, and he was determined to get it to the President. And he did what anyone else would do with a letter to get to the President; he brought it to the town hall where his congressman was speaking and handed me the letter in front of a great number of people and said, ``Can you please help me get this letter to the President?'' Of course I said I would. But I didn't really know how I was going to do that and brought the letter back to Washington. 
   I worked with the White House congressional liaison, but I wasn't really getting the letter to where it needed to be. So we had the White House picnic scheduled, and at the last minute, I put the letter in my pocket. I said, Well, if I see the President, I will hand the letter to him personally. But as is usually the case, you go to one of these events and the President is absolutely mobbed by people, and I honestly just didn't think I could get through the swarm of individuals that were lining up to have their picture made with the President. 
   So I turned around, and there was Tony Snow. I didn't know Tony, but I walked up to him and struck up a conversation. And he was very happy to oblige. He was warm, he was witty, certainly very, very easy to talk with. He was a larger-than-life press person, a pundit, a press secretary, having just a pleasant and regular conversation with a very freshman congressman from Texas. 
   It dawned on me that day that Tony might be the right person to whom to give this letter to take to the President. I asked him. I said, I have a letter that a soldier asked me to deliver to the President that was given to him by a woman in Iraq. Do you think you can help me? He said of course he would take the letter, and he'd be happy to see that it got into the hands of the President. 
   Now, that was the White House picnic in June. Many, many months went by, many, many weeks went by, a couple of months went by. I didn't hear anything, and I really wondered what had happened to that letter, if it had ever gotten to where it was intended to go. 
   And then at another event right at the start of school in September back in my district, the same soldier came up to me at a Chamber of Commerce breakfast. Again, a lot of people around, and very excitedly said, ``I just want you to know what you have meant to me getting my letter to the President.'' And I was somewhat taken aback because I didn't know the President received the letter. He said, Oh, yes. They called me from the White House. They identified themselves. At first I thought it was some of my buddies that were kidding with me. But in fact the letter had gotten to the White House. The President called me and thanked me for it. In the letter, the woman had thanked the President for everything he had done for the Iraqi people and said she was praying for him every day, and the President was deeply touched by the woman's words. 
   Now, Tony Snow did not have to take that letter from me that day. He didn't have to deliver it to his boss. He didn't have to take it to the President. But that's just the kind of person he was: honest, decent, and a man of his word at all times. 
   Well, certainly for me it was a great honor for me to meet Tony Snow that day. Certainly the country again mourns his loss, and I just wanted to bring to the floor this evening one of the other stories of what a great American Tony was and how much, as a country, we will miss him and honor his memory. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE IN THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - May 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. My colleagues filled the last hour with discussion of what is sublimely intuitive to the most casual of observers of the American scene, the IRS code. 
   Now we are going to go to something a little more complex and that's health care in the United States. 
   The question I get asked a lot of times, because I spent my precongressional career as a physician, how did we get into this situation? How did we get the health care system that we have today? More importantly, where are we going within our current system? 
   We currently have a system that is based upon both the aspects of the public-provided system, the government-  provided system and the private system. We have a system that does have a significant number of individuals who lack coverage. They may not always lack medical care, but they do lack coverage for that care. Some of the things we are going to be, of necessity, focusing on this in Congress is the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program. We will also be talking about reauthorizing the Federally qualified Federal health center program. 
   Health savings accounts have actually been around now for 10 years. It's appropriate to look back on where we have been with, first, medical savings accounts and then the expansion that occurred with the Medicare modernization act in 2003 with health savings accounts. Association health plans are not getting as much attention this year as they have in past years, but they are important, and we do need to think about those in the overall picture of where we are going with America's health care. 
   Medical liability reform, probably one of the more contentious things that we have tackled in Congress since I came here in 2002 he 2003. We still, as far as a Nation, do not have an answer for that question, but several States have done things, including my home State of Texas, and also that is one of the things that I want to touch on tonight. 
   One thing that does concern me greatly is the physician workforce today and the physician workforce of the future. I will be spending considerable time talking about things that we might do, the things that are within our grasp to do to help ensure that the doctors of today continue to deliver care for our patients, whether they be in the government sector, or the private sector, and ensure that we encourage the best and brightest among our young people to go into, to look at health care as a profession, whether it be as a physician, as a nurse, and one of the ancillary health services, but it is important that we attract our best and our brightest into those professions and perhaps a look at some of the things that are being tried in some of the States. 
   The States, of course, are the great laboratories in our democracy. There are some interesting occurrences that are going on in some States that are trying to grapple with the problem of coverage for individuals who lack it; and then, finally, some ancillary issues. We recently passed a trauma bill on this House. Last weekend, the President signed that bill into law. 
   Transparency, how do we make the expenditures in health care. How do we make information about cost, price and quality, how do we make that information available in an understandable format to the average consumer of health care in this country, whether they be in the private or the public sector. 
   One of the things that we don't really talk about that often, but is going to be a significant issue, as more and more people my age get successively older and older, is how do we deal with the problem of long-term care facing this country? Well, let's go on a journey. Let's talk about the American health care system. 
   For the purposes of this discussion, we don't have time to go all the way back to the beginning when our country was founded, though it is important to always note that while the forebearers of today's legal profession were drafting documents like the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, the forebearers of my profession, Dr. Benjamin Rush, was treating people with leeches. We have come a great distance since that time. 
   But if you look at just the modern era, the time since the end of the Second World War, when truly some of the big differences that developed between European countries and America, some of those differences, in fact, have their roots in the Second World War. In America, of course, in order to prevent problems with an inflationary spiral that threatened to go out of control, President Roosevelt put price controls on wages and said people could only earn so much. 
   Well, employers wanted to keep employees working, they wanted to keep employees happy. They asked a 
   question, could we provide benefits to our employees. Can we provide, perhaps, health insurance or health care benefits for our employees and not have that as part of the Federal price controls that were in effect, or Federal wage controls that were in effect at that time? 
   The Supreme Court looked at it and said, that's reasonable. You can do that. You can provide the health care benefit for your employee, and you will not be violating the provisions of the wage control provisions that were enacted in the Second World War. 
   Well, the system was working, and the war ended, and the system continued. Because, in fact, it was working well, and people liked getting their insurance that way. 
   It continued for a number of years. If you look at a country in the European theater, the Second World War, whether they were winners or losers at the end of the war, they faced a humanitarian crisis of almost unbelievable proportion. So it is no surprise that even a country that was victorious, like Great Britain, went down the road of national health insurance, because it needed to provide a great deal of care in a very short period of time, and they didn't have the bedrock of the employer-derived health insurance that was available in this country as a result of wage controls that were put on during the war. 
   We are often compared with Europe and why our health care system looks different from theirs, when both, after all, are modern western nations. Part of the reason does go back to this discrepancy that occurred during the war, and then, of course, the situation, the economic situation, in some cases, a very dire economic situation that occurred on the ground in Europe as the war ended. 
   It's not the purpose of this discussion tonight to actually provide a compare and contrast with the European system, though that might be interesting to do, but take where we were at the end of the Second World War, the beginning of the great economic expansion that characterized the post-war years in this country, insurance being provided by employers, employees very happy with that, employees having good coverage, doctors being happy with that, because that coverage meant that hospitals and doctors were reimbursed, and the situation was going along, some problems, of course, and some people in this body, 20 years later, said, we need to do better than what we are doing, because after people are no longer employed, and they, perhaps, lose that health insurance, what are we going to do then? 
   Twenty years after the end of the Second World War, in 1965, we had the rise of a new system, took probably 4 to 5 years for it to actually work its way through Congress. It was, just like today, a situation like this, was by no means easy. In 1965, President Lyndon Johnson signed into law the Medicare bill that primarily focused on hospital care for the elderly in addition to the hospital care. In addition to the part A of Medicare, there was also developed a part B of Medicare that was a reimbursement for physician-necessitated services. But we had the parts A and B of Medicare that came into being in the mid-1960s, another 40 years before Congress made a significant change to the Medicare system by passing the Medicare prescription drug act. 
   Now, my father was a physician back in 1965, and I used to tease him that in 1965, when the Medicare system was first enacted, there were, after all, only two medicines, penicillin and Cortizone, and they were used interchangeably. I know, he didn't think it was funny either, but the fact is, we didn't have nearly the tools at hand from a pharmaceutical perspective in 1965. Then fast forward to 2005, 2006 and 2007, ones that are just part of our everyday parlance, our everyday armamentarium in medical practice. 
   We saw this with the trustees' report that was just released last week or the week before, where it was described that 680,000 hospital beds in 2005 were not filled in Medicare, primarily because of the things we are doing better in Medicare, treating that cholesterol at an early stage with a statin and not treating it at the end stage when cardiac surgery or, in fact, sudden death may be the outcome of undiagnosed or untreated heart disease. So we are doing a better job of treating things early at the same time. It does cost more money in the provision of the Medicare prescription drug act. 
   There was a great deal of discussion during the time that we passed that  prescription plan, but it kind of sets the stage for the debate that we are going to now have, and going to continue today. Is it better to treat things in the preclinical stage, is it better to treat things in the nonacute stage, or is it better to wait and target your therapy toward the end process of a disease, which, characteristically, is how we handled things in Medicare previously. 
   But the impetus is, of course, to be more preventive and proactive in taking care of patients. That is the direction in which medicine is going, that is the direction in which science is leading, and that is the direction in which Medicare itself should go. 
   So I don't think there is any question about which is better, the, the acute-care model, or the long-term model. Furthermore, we will have additional discussion, should this expand the government share of the program, or is there perhaps some room for the private sector, and can they deliver value within the Medicare system as far as providing care for patients?     
   When I talk about the public and private, let's break it down a little bit. Currently just in rough numbers the government pays about 50 cents out of every health care dollar that is spent in this country. Our gross domestic product is approximately $11 trillion; we spend $1.4 trillion on health care. The Health and Human Service budget alone for Medicare and Medicaid is over $600 billion. Add to that the money that is spent in the Federal prison systems, the VA health system, the Indian health system, all of the other areas where the Federal Government is involved in health care, and it is not difficult to see that you are very close to that number which encompasses 50 percent. 
   The other 50 percent is certainly not all just simply commercial insurance, though commercial insurance makes up a large portion of that. There is certainly that portion which is self-funded by patients. Believe it or not, there are patients who just simply prefer to pay their bills in cash and continue to do so, and there is a significant number of dollars that are just contributed to the system by doctors and hospitals and nurses and ancillary health care providers because the individuals whom they are taking care of have no health coverage. 
   In the debate of how to best expand and give people more coverage, you certainly can make the argument for expanding the government system. My personal opinion is that might not be the best way to go about doing things. On the other hand, there are many people within this body who, Mr. Speaker, will be talking at great length, I suspect, over the 18 months leading up to the next election, a great many people in this body who will be talking about just that, expanding the government's role. Again, remember, we are already doing about 50 percent, and they will be looking to expand that. 
   One of the critical questions we have to ask ourselves in expanding that 50 percent is, are we doing a good job from the government's perspective with the 50 percent that we have now? Are we doing such a superlative job that in fact it is a good thing to push out or crowd out the private sector? Or, are there some areas where the government system perhaps could improve, and some areas that perhaps it is just innately difficult for a large governmental system to improve and where the private sector can in fact do a better job? 
   One of the things that is frequently asked, and I know I got this the years I was in private practice was, why don't we just do what they did in Canada where they have a national health insurance in Canada and everybody is happy, the doctors are paid and the patients are taken care of? Well, it was probably 2004, 2005 that the Canadian Supreme Court came out with a ruling that access to a waiting list did not equal the same thing as access to care. And I know I will get some criticism about this, Mr. Speaker, but one of the secrets of the Canadian system is the fact that they have on their southern border the United States of America with a significant amount of excess capacity in our health care system; and patients in Canada who can afford to pay, who do not want to wait, simply offload their burden from the Canadian system and come south of the border to have their problems taken care of in a more timely fashion. 
   In the British National Health Service, of course they have developed within their country a two-tiered system. Some of the most expensive medical care that you can buy today is in the country of Great Britain where they very famously have free care. The reason you can buy private care more expensively is because, again, people want to buy their way out of a waiting list or buy their way out of the public system so that they can get taken care of in a more timely fashion. 
   One of the problems with a very long waiting list for things like an artificial hip or even coronary angiography for someone who is being worked up for chest pain is you reach a certain point in life, perhaps a person in their 70s or 80s where that 6-month wait, 12-month wait, 14-month wait or longer becomes very detrimental to their overall health because they just simply do not have that many years left from an actuarial perspective. 
   Well, what about the private sector, and what about Congress' interface with the private sector? Are we doing things that are generally helpful or hurtful to the private sector? And what can we do to promote policies that do keep the private sector engaged in providing health care in this country? 
   I already alluded to medical savings accounts. Medical savings accounts started with the Kennedy/Castlebaum bill in 1996. The year 1997 was the first year that a medical savings account was available in this country. I know that because I purchased one myself. I was concerned when I heard about the medical savings accounts becoming available because Congress had restricted medical savings accounts such that no more than 750,000 would be sold, no more than 750,000 would be available during those early years of medical savings accounts, and I was very concerned that I would be even able to get one. I thought that they would be so popular that that 750,000 limit would be very quickly subscribed and I might be left out of the process. It turns out I didn't need to worry, because there were so many restrictions placed on those old medical savings accounts that if you didn't have that M.D. degree, perhaps you weren't going to be capable of dealing with all of the things that you would have to deal with. In my home State of Texas, the restrictions were such that there were only two insurers that provided the medical savings account products. Still, I found it to be a very useful type insurance. 
   First and foremost, it left me completely in charge of any medical decisions to be made for myself and my family. I didn't have to talk to an HMO director, I didn't have to dial 1-800-California and get permission for a particular treatment. I could spend my own money and reimburse myself out of that medical savings account. 
   The downside was you couldn't put very much money away each year in the medical savings account and the deductibles were significant, and that was seen to be a significant barrier to a lot of people with getting a medical savings account. 
   In 2003, the compromise that ended up being the Medicare Modernization Act did significantly expand what are now called health savings accounts. The amount of money that can be put away for a family greatly increased from, I believe, $3,200 to up to $5,000 for family coverage. The deductible itself was essentially maintained, though there were several tiered products made available so that that deductible didn't have to be as high as the highest number. You could in fact purchase an HSA product with a deductible that wasn't at the maximum. 
   One of the most significant things, and the reason I know this is having tried to purchase a health care policy for an adult child back before even medical savings accounts came along in 1994 and 1995, there was almost no one out there willing to sell in the individual market an individual insurance policy. Whether it be a high deductible or a nominal deductible, it just wasn't available for any price. 
   Fast forward to the time after the health savings account legislation passed in 2003. Come to 2004, 2005, 10 years later, and a young person who needs health insurance just out of college, say, wants to go into business for  themselves, doesn't want to have to work for a big corporation to get that employer-sponsored health insurance but wants to carry their own insurance, they can go to Google or the search engine of their choice, type in ``health savings accounts,'' and with a few clicks and a quick search they can find high deductible PPO policies sold by reputable names that we would all recognize. And of course I won't mention any of those names, but they are sold by reputable companies that we would all recognize as longstanding established insurers in this country, and the premium would be in the range of $60 to $65 a month for a high deductible policy, imminently within reach of that 25-year-old nonsmoking male just out of college in my home State of Texas. Again, that type of policy was absolutely unavailable in 1994 for any price, and now it is available at a price that arguably would be affordable by a lot of people who are just getting out of college and have their earnings at the beginning of their earning cycle. 
   And why is this important? Yes, it is a high deductible policy. That means, if you need a flu shot, you are probably not going to be able to show your insurance card and get a flu shot; you are going to go down to the place that gives flu shots and pay the $20 or 
   $25, whatever is required to get the flu shot. If you have money accumulated in your health savings account, yes, you can make a draw on that money to reimburse yourself for that flu shot. But if you are even to the point where you haven't gotten enough of a savings into that account yet to go and tap into that money, you are going to have to pay that money out of pocket, the important thing is, is that after your flu shot you get on your motorcycle and ride home and have an accident and spend a day in the emergency room and 3 or 4 days in the intensive care unit and face a bill that may be as much as $10,000 or $15,000 or $20,000, you do have coverage for those catastrophic amounts. And, let's face it, for young people today, trauma or accidents are going to be one of the principle causes of hospitalization. 
   Association health plans, again, a concept that we have dealt with in this Congress the last two Congresses. It has not come up this year and the reality is it may not. But this gives small businesses the ability to band together to get that purchasing power of a large corporation. One of the hard things is you go out to buy group coverage for your small business, and they say, you know what, you have got so few employees that it is really not worth our time and the cost for that coverage is, consequently, going to be astronomical. But if you are able to combine with, say, your chamber of commerce and you can combine with a chamber of commerce across in the next county, you can combine with a couple more chambers of commerce in other cities and perhaps even across State lines, suddenly you are accumulating enough covered lives to really get that insurance company's attention and perhaps drive a better bargain, perhaps get a better deal. 
   Right now, we won't let that happen. But the fact is that Congress should get out of the way and allow those things to occur, because it is not so much that association health plans are going to bring down the number of the uninsured, but it sure will help the rate of rise of the uninsured we see in this country, because that rate of rise is in a large part fueled by the cost of purchasing health care by that small business person; and anything we can do to keep that cost of coverage down is going to ultimately increase the amount of coverage that is available. 
   Transparency, I mentioned before, is critically important if we are going to have so-called consumer directed health care in this country. We have got to put that information in the consumer's hands so that they can make decisions about cost price and quality in the health care system. And I understand that there is an inherent danger in transparency. Opacity is there for a reason, and that reason is generally it is financially rewarding for whoever is providing the opacity. They don't want everybody to know what goes on behind the curtain. 
   Again, I will reference my home State of Texas. The very beginning of a transparency project has now gone up on line. Mr. Speaker, if anyone at home were interested, it is tx.pricepoint.org, and someone can go to that, Mr. Speaker, on their Web site and look at that and get information about hospital charges in their area and how they compare with the rest of the State. Granted, there is going to need to be more information available, but it is a good start, and I certainly support the folks at the State level who provided that degree of price transparency for the citizens of Texas. 
   In talking about the uninsured, one of the things that will come up, and I think we heard the President mention it here in this House during the State of the Union address, is what about the concept of that private ownership of insurance that is paid for with after-tax dollars? The President talked about giving people a tax deduction if they purchased their own insurance, not through their employer, but just went out and purchased it themselves. Certainly a valid argument that can be made about that is, well, there are a lot of people out there who don't pay income tax. So what about the concept of providing a tax credit? Some people would call it a voucher; I prefer the term premium support. If someone is working and their employer is providing the option for having the insurance but they say, you know with what, I still can't afford the $200, $300, or $400 a month I would have to pay individually in order to get that insurance; what if we provided them some help with that premium? And might that not be a better way to approach or to tackle some of the problems of the uninsured rather than just simply ever expanding the Medicaid system or some of the other systems that are out there to cover the uninsured? If someone is earning a living but does not have health insurance available at their place of employment, even providing them that premium support so that they can go out and purchase insurance in the private market. If we would help create and sustain that market, I believe that the private insurers would look at 42 million, 45 million people as a segment of market share that they would compete for, and we ought to give them the tools to do that. 
   Now, currently the United States Census Bureau says there are 46.6 million uninsured.     
   I think it's important to stress, once again, that uninsured does not always mean no access to health care. It may mean that the access to health care does not occur at the point where the health care can be rendered for a lower total dollar figure, or you may not receive the best health care outcome because care has been delayed. But having access to coverage will increase access to care. 
   One of the things that this Congress did 10 years ago, long before I got here, was a program called the State Children's Health Insurance Program. It's 10 years old. It's going to be required to be reauthorized this year. But this did provide States some flexibility and some options for providing coverage for uninsured children that resided within their State. 
   This was primarily to be directed to children who were not eligible for Medicaid, whose parents earned a little bit too much money to have them covered under the Medicaid system and therefore couldn't, but they, themselves, did not earn enough money to truly afford health insurance. So this was a good thing. 
   Coverage of children is relatively cheap coverage. You pay $0.60 for what would be $1 of health care for an adult. You can pay $0.60, buy $0.60 worth of health insurance for a child and get the equivalent of $1 worth of insurance for an adult because children, as a general rule, are young and healthy. They tend to recover from their illnesses quicker than do adults, and money invested in the children's program is, indeed, money well spent and money wisely invested. 
   Some of the things that I think we ought to keep in mind as we reauthorize this bill this year, and we will be doing that through my committee, Health Subcommittee on Energy and Commerce, but some of the things I think we ought to keep in mind is that it is primarily a children's health insurance program. 
   The decision was made to cover pregnant adults, and I think that that was a good thing, and that should be continued. But covering non pregnant  adults in the Children's Health Insurance Program is perhaps not the best use of those dollars. 
   If there needs to be a program for providing additional coverage to those adults, then let's look at doing so, but let's not divert those dollars that should be going into coverage for health care for children; let's not divert those to some other purpose. And unfortunately, we have the situation in this country today where four States actually cover more adults than they do children. 
   Again, we need to get back to the original principle that this program was enacted, and make sure, once we're covering all the children, once we're covering all the uninsured children in this country, then perhaps we can talk about expanding it to include adults. But until that time, we do need to focus and make certain that we are covering the uninsured children. 
   You know, a letter to the editor back home in Dallas this weekend I was reading made the comment that, of course, SCHIP, and they were talking about it primarily at the State level. And the State, my State Legislature is in session right now, and they are grappling with the questions of funding for SCHIP. 
   But the comment was made in the letter that the SCHIP program was there for some parents who cannot afford insurance; and sure enough, that's what it's there for. 
   And the second line went on to say that also there are some parents who are working and covered under their parents' insurance, but they can't afford that additional premium for the dependent coverage on their insurance. 
   This is some of the cheapest coverage out there that we should take advantage of. And certainly, it is available within the SCHIP program currently for some degree of premium support. But I certainly think we need to expand that, certainly, make states aware that this is available for them to use, that they can leverage those children's health insurance dollars to buy more health insurance. 
   And the other thing that we do that's extremely important, if the Federal Government simply takes over the function of providing all of the insurance for all of the children, the private sector is completely crowded out. And is that fundamentally a good thing or a bad thing? 
   I would argue that it is not in the best interest of our country to let that happen, that the private sector does belong in the children's health insurance market. And we should, while we may not be required to do anything to particularly subsidize that, we certainly should not do anything that makes that an untenable business model because, ultimately, I think we are going to be less satisfied with the result. 
   Federally qualified health centers. We are going to have to, we didn't finish the work on reauthorization of the federally qualified health center statute last session of Congress. It is going to be important to try to do that again. Once again, that's an issue that will come through my committee on Energy and Commerce. We had some very good hearings on that last year, leading up to the introduction of the bill by Mr. Bilirakis, who is no longer with us. And that bill will come up again this year. 
   I think that when you look at the federally qualified health center, one of the things that is really encouraging to me is that a Congress, and I grant you it was 35 or 40 years ago, sat down and agreed amongst themselves, the Members on both sides of the aisle, agreed what procedures, what items would be covered under that federally qualified health center statute. 
   And to me, that's a beacon of hope, that perhaps we can work, this body can work together and decide on what are the things that should be covered; if we wanted to have an insurance policy, for example, that was generally available for individuals who were currently uninsured. 
   What are the parameters that should be covered? What should we encourage? 
   If we are going to go talk to the private sector about insurance policies that may be affordable by the Nation's working poor, what should those things cover, and can we ever come to an agreement that will allow those types of policies to be sold in one State or another, and what could we do about getting those policies up and on the Internet to take advantage of the competitive influences that are present on the Internet? 
   You know, one of the things, again, I reference Texas a lot because I spend a lot of time there. But one of the Nation's largest automobile insurers has really made a big push in the Texas market. They're famous because they have a little green lizard who's kind of their spokesman, the little green lizard with an English accent, in fact, who's kind of their spokesman. 
   But the message is that if you can go online and spend 15 minutes with them, they can save you some money. Wouldn't it be great to provide that same tool, that same device in the health insurance market as well and get the advantage of that, that very strong competitive market out there that has been provided by the new technology of the information superhighway? 
   It's certainly had a very significant beneficial effect on bringing down the costs of term life insurance. And we saw this back in the late 1990s, the early part of this century. Why not take that same competitive power and unleash it for health insurance and allow more people 
   to be covered? 
   I referenced health savings accounts before. Again, you can go on the Internet and buy a health savings account now that's available because some of the state-by-state restrictions do not apply because of the way that legislation was written. And this is an extremely powerful tool to put into people's hands. 
   One of the disadvantages, one of the ways we disadvantage our citizens when it comes to purchasing a policy like a health savings account is that it is paid for with after tax dollars. You don't get that pre-tax expenditure. 
   We could, in fact, further leverage the health insurance, how far a health insurance dollar could go in a family's budget by tapping into that concept of a pre-tax expense. 
   But some of the things we have done with health savings accounts, and again, I would stress that since we passed the Medicare Modernization Act a scant 4 years ago, between 4 and 7 million people have now purchased health savings accounts. 
   I referenced early on that first off, back in the early 1990s or, I'm sorry, the middle 1990s, it was going to be capped at 750,000 total policies. That cap was removed with the Medicare Modernization Act, and as a consequence now, at least 4 million people have purchased health savings accounts. Forty percent of those people were previously uninsured. That means that number of the uninsured would be higher by a factor of a million or a million and a half had we not passed that legislation that expanded health savings accounts. 
   Making those premiums tax deductible, that is something that, an idea whose time has come, has long since come. We weren't able to do it during the last Congress. I know there are a number of competing influences out there, and we heard references to things like PAYGO before, so it is going to be a tough battle. But I do believe that we need to do that. 
   The low income tax credit, or the premium support for an HSA like product for someone whose low income, again, an idea, certainly whose time has come. 
   Maybe we should allow employers to make larger contributions to an HSA for a chronically ill employee, an employee who has diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis or any of other of a number of chronic diseases where, yeah, their health expenditures are going to be higher because they were unlucky enough to have this chronic disease, so their health insurance may cost a little bit more. But let's allow the employer the flexibility of perhaps contributing a little bit more to that plan. 
   What about allowing the flexibility for health savings accounts to coordinate with other type of things that employers do to make the health care insurance burden for their employees easier to bear?     
   Things like flexible spending accounts. A flexible spending account where an employer contributes a certain amount of money each year so that their employee can go out and have some of the first dollar coverage that they otherwise might not have,  because even if they don't have a health savings account, just the regular deductible on regular commercial insurance, anyone who works and has employer-derived insurance will tell you that number has increased over the past 5 or 10 years. So flexible spending accounts are moneys that the employer puts away for the employee to help to use to offset some of these expenses that may be incurred. 
   If we allowed someone with a health savings account to participate in a flexible spending account and even went further; for a flexible spending account, at the end of the calendar year, it is a use it or lose it phenomenon. If the employer has contributed that money or the employee has said, I want to put away a tax-deferred amount of money into this account so that I can spend it for health care needs and try to capture a little bit of that pretax leveragability there, they lose that money at the end of the year if they haven't spent it on their health care. 
   Why don't we let that roll over into their health savings account and let that health care nest egg accumulate at a little bit faster rate so that those citizens who do wish to utilize the power of a health savings account can perhaps make it work even more to their advantage? 
   And what if someone wants to retire early and they have got that health care nest egg built up in their health savings account but now they are going into early retirement, and doggone it, that insurance premium is going to be an additional burden to bear? What about allowing them to draw on the health savings account to pay their premium to continue their health savings account in those years from their early retirement prior to the time that they are covered by Medicare? It is an interesting concept and one I think this Congress would do well to spend some time thinking about doing. 
   I will come back again to the pretax treatment of health care expenditures incurred under an HSA. Again, we can leverage a citizen's dollars so much more by allowing that type of treatment of those dollars. 
   Again, association health plans for employers who want to provide their employees insurance but find they are being increasingly priced out of the market. Give them the flexibility to go out there and group together and say, We are a group of realtors and we want to be able to go out and buy health insurance in the market like we had a whole bunch of employees rather than an office that employs five or six people because we are not getting a good deal when we just go out and try to buy insurance in the market to cover five or six employees at a time. 
   All of these things are critical for us to think about. All of these things are ways that we can improve the system that we have before us today. But we do have to ask ourselves if we are perhaps putting the cart before the horse. 
   Alan Greenspan, the gentleman's name who is not unknown in this town, the prior Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, about 1 1/2 years ago came and talked to a group of us one morning, talking about just things in general, and the question inevitably came up about Medicare: How in the world are we ever going to pay for Medicare? How in the world are we ever going to tackle this unfunded obligation that we have? 
   And Chairman Greenspan felt confident that at some point some Congress would be able to deal with this problem in a satisfactory way. And he paused and he got quite reflective, and he said, You know, what concerns me more is, is there going to be anyone there to provide the services when you need them? Of course he was talking about our physicians. Of course he was talking about our nurses. 
   Those are words that certainly I have taken to heart. And I think we do need to spend considerable effort on thinking about this problem and considerable effort towards rectifying some of the difficulties that are out there so that we do, indeed, preserve the health care workforce that is present today and the health care workforce that we are going to want for the future. 
   Last year, in order to deal with this problem, I introduced a bill, H.R. 5866, the Medicare Physician Payment Reform and Quality Improvement Act of 2006. I introduced that bill in July. Of course, with the August recess and then the recess before the election, there wasn't a lot of time left in the year to work on it. The reason it was so important is because the system we have developed in our Medicare system, parts A, B, C, and D are not paid for equally. The fact is that part B, the part that is handled by physicians, is dealt with in a different fashion. Part A, the hospital; part C, the HMO; part D, the prescription drug benefit, all of those each year receive essentially a cost-of-living adjustment, an update, because the cost of inputs is going to go up. 
   The physician payment, this is an important concept. I realize it may sound arcane, but the physician payment is handled differently. There Congress, in its wisdom many, many years ago, said if we can control the volume and intensity of these payments, we are going to be able to save money over the long term. So a system was put in place called the Sustainable Growth Rate formula. You will hear it referred to as the SGR. The problem with the SGR is that every year physicians, instead of getting a cost-of-living update based on the fact that their electricity costs more, it costs more to put gas in their car to drive to work, it costs more to pay their help, all of those things go up, but the physician reimbursements go down. An estimated 5 percent a year, and this is projected to go up for years in the future so that the accumulative effect will be a 30 to 35 percent reduction in physician reimbursement in the Medicare system. And anyone just looking at this understands that that is untenable. You can't keep doing that. Every year Congress has to come in at the last minute and do something to keep that from happening for that year. 
   Sometimes we get it done; sometimes we don't. But the problem is every year that we put that fix in place, we increase the price tag for eventually getting out of that system. 
   A case in point: I first came to Congress in 2003. In fact, the Congress before my first term here had not passed any appropriations bills. So the first thing we were faced with was a huge omnibus bill, spending hundreds of billions of dollars. That omnibus bill contained within it a fix for the doctors. And I remember the then chairman of the Ways and Means Committee coming to our conference and saying, I have put a fix in there so that the doctors won't see that pay cut that they got last year, and it is going to cost $52 billion to do that. At that time the cost of buying our way out of the SGR formula and switching over to a cost-of-living formula, a cost-of-living adjustment formula, known as the Medicare economic index, was pegged at about $118 billion, a significant sum of money. But $52 billion as a down payment on a $118 billion problem, that seemed reasonable. It seemed like we were going in the right direction. 
   But fast forward 4 years, and every year, of course, we have done something similar, never quite as much as the $52 billion that was passed that first month that I was in Congress, but every year that at the end of the year where we have had to add that money to keep physicians from seeing a pay reduction, we have increased the cost of eventually repealing the SGR so that it now totals $280 billion. 
   But wait. There is more. If you do not protect seniors, because by law in part B of Medicare, seniors pay 25 percent of the cost of the part B program, which 75 percent is borne by the Federal Treasury; 25 percent is recovered in premiums, and every time we increase that amount, the premiums necessarily increase. No one likes to do that because those premium increases by law hit in the month of October and that is very close to an every 2-year election that occurs in the month of November. So everyone wants to deal with that problem of the premiums going up every year. If you were to deal with the entire problem, the SGR and premium protection for senior citizens, the costs suddenly goes up to $340 billion. It is clear to see in a PAYGO environment that that is almost an impossible hill to climb. 
   Last year in the Physician Payment Reform and Quality Improvement Act of 2006, in attempting to deal with that, I looked for help within the health care community, people to find places where there could be efficiencies to help offset that SGR price tag that at that time was $218 billion.     
   Suffice it to say that those cost savings were never identified. People were reluctant to come forth with areas in their particular part of Medicare where they might save money. And as a consequence, the pay-fors did not materialize, and the bill was something we didn't take up. 
   This year, it's not even just about fixing that part of the formula. It is important to do that because one of the pernicious effects of that formula is you have doctors who are looking toward their retirement and perhaps thinking about accelerating it for a few years. So we have physicians in the workforce who may be leaving early because they look down the road and say, 5 percent reduction in the rate of Medicare reimbursement every year for the next 10 years for a cumulative total of 30 or 35 percent, I don't think so. Maybe I do need to get on with my retirement plans. And then on the other end of the spectrum you have the young physician who is just getting out of medical school, who is meeting the residency in those primary care high need specialties, they may need some additional help. And finally, the student who's finishing college and looking to go to medical school; how am I going to deal with those significant loans I'm going to face when I get out of school? 
   All three areas are going to require this Congress to think very carefully and work very hard on trying to craft solutions. And I would just stress that it is important not to craft a solution that is only going to fix the short term. We've really had this kicking-the-can phenomenon or postponing-the-pain phenomenon has worked only up to a point. And you have to believe that this type of trajectory does have a shelf life, and ultimately we're going to reach a point where we are in fact no longer able to afford even those relatively modest, and I use the term modest advisedly because we are talking about a Washington expenditure here, will be unable to afford even those modest payments that are required to offset the reductions that happen year over year. 
   And you might say, well, that's not so bad, it's just the Medicare system. That's just half of health care, how could that be that big a problem? The unstated aspect of this is that every private health insurance company out there who writes insurance policies, I shouldn't say every, but a lot, will peg their reimbursement rates to what Medicare pays. They pay 80 percent of Medicare, they pay 120 percent of Medicare, but they pay some percentage of what Medicare pays. And when we as a Congress say to the physicians of America, guess what? You get a 5.4 reduction this year. Those companies that peg their reimbursement rates to the Medicare 2007 reimbursement schedule are in fact also given a bit of a break. And they were never intended to be the recipients of the largess of the Federal Government, but that's what happens when you have Federal price controls on a system like health care. 
   Well, improvements in the bill from last year I think are in progress. And the fact that the entire concept is split into three parts to deal with the overall affordability of educating and providing the incentives for people to go into medicine in the first place, providing the tools for their educational process, providing some flexibility with loan forgiveness, tax credits for the young physician, and then finally, providing some stability for the physician who is mature and in practice, that they are going to face a stable pricing environment going forward, not a continuously shrinking price environment going forward. 
   It is going to be difficult. There again, I will reference the Medicare Trustees Report. Again, 680,000 hospital beds that were not filled in 2005 because of improvements in the practice of medicine. We've come a long way from the days of Benjamin Rush, when they used leeches to treat their patients. Those 680,000 hospital beds that weren't filled in the Medicare system, that is money that is saved in the part A part of Medicare, but the savings actually occur because of the work being done in the part B part of Medicare. And there has got to be somewhere, some way within the Federal statutes that the savings that occur in part A or part C or part D because of continued work and vigilance by the folks who are practicing in part B, there has got to be a way that those savings will accrue to part B, and use those savings as the offset for lowering that total price tag on the SGR formula. 
   Further, there are some places, unfortunately, where people do attempt to abuse the system and take money that perhaps they are not entirely entitled to. The Inspector General's Office at HHS and the Department of Justice held a lengthy hearing with our Energy and Commerce Subcommittee a few weeks ago; it was a terribly enlightening process. But the money that's recovered in those audits is not money that should go to the Department of Justice, though don't tell them I said that, but it's money that should go back to the part B of Medicare to offset the eventual repeal and replacement of the SGR formula with the Medicare Economic Index. And I quite simply don't know any other way how to say that. 
   If we are not able to get that done this year or next year or the year after, we do need to put some programs in place that will protect physicians from those cuts that are programmed to occur in 2008 and 2009. And again, that is part of the legislation that I will be working on to not only capture those monies that rightfully belong to part B to offset the eventual cost of repealing the SGR, but additional things in place to protect the earnings of the physicians who care for our Medicare patients during those years before the SGR can be repealed. 
   Well, I mentioned earlier that some of the States have done some things within their health plans that have been innovative and really quite exciting; Massachusetts is probably the leader in that regard. It's significant because the Governor of Massachusetts is offering himself as a Presidential candidate and is certainly one of the individuals who can say ``check the box, I've done that.'' And working with a legislature and a State senate who was of the opposite party and not always aligned with his vision of where things were and where they ought to be, was able to craft a plan. Just like so many things, we can always say it's God's plans, but the devil is in the details, and sure enough in this situation the devil is in the details. The months starting in July of this year will tell the tale as to whether or not that plan will actually work. But some very clever ideas were incorporated. 
   Now I will be the first to admit that as a Texan there are a lot of things that you can apply to Massachusetts that you could never apply in Texas. But one of the concepts that I thought was, you have heard me reference several occasions that wouldn't it be great to get the leverage of getting a pretax expense for someone who wanted to buy their health insurance? Well, they found a way to do that in Massachusetts, it's called the Massachusetts Connecter. And indeed, even back in my home State of Texas I know they are looking at this concept. There is apparently a chapter in the IRS code, we heard the last speaker say how complicated the IRS code can be, but buried within the IRS code is section 125, which will allow for Federal tax deductibility of insurance premiums where the State acts not so much as the broker, but the middle man, if the State acts as the person who is going to bring the buyer and seller in the insurance market together, there is apparently a way in the IRS code where there is a tax deductible treatment then of that expenditure. And think about that for persons who are in the 20 or 25 percent tax bracket. If they can buy their health insurance premiums with 80 cent dollars, suddenly we've gone a long way towards allowing them some additional flexibility within the plan. 
   The thing I like the best about the Massachusetts plan is it does stress the concept of personal responsibility. That is to say that if you are a resident in the State of Massachusetts and you can afford health insurance, then you've got no good reason not to have health insurance and we are going to require you to have it. Again, a concept that may not work in other States. And Governor Schwarzenegger is looking at doing something in California. I know in my home State of Texas, Governor Perry is looking at some options. Governor Jeb Bush in Florida and now Governor Crist, who  replaced him, all have the ability to look at the State programs because of flexibility that was put in the system when the Deficit Reduction Act passed in December of 2005. Again, the much maligned Deficit Reduction Act gave the tools to these State leaders so that they can look at doing these innovative plans in their States to provide coverage for their populations who are uninsured. And after all, again, one of the great things about the United States is the States can serve as laboratories. We don't necessarily have to change everything for the whole country, we can see how it works in a given State, and to the extent that it is helpful, we can expand the program.     
   If we find it wasn't helpful, we won't expand the program. But it is one of those great things that our Founding Fathers envisioned, that the States would be great laboratories for needed social change to occur in this country. 
   One of the other things that I didn't cover earlier because I wasn't sure if time would permit it, I do obviously need to say a word about the medical liability system in this country. 
   My home State of Texas, again, did tackle this issue in 2003 and did pass a State law that capped non-economic damages, much along the lines of the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975 that was passed in California. Our State of Texas picked up that concept, modernized it for the 21st century, and those caps on non-economic damages, instead of just being one realm of non-economic damages, the cap is trifurcated, $250,000 thousand cap on the doctor, $250,000 thousand cap on the hospital, $250,000 thousand cap on the on a nursing home or second hospital, if one is involved. 
   The critical thing about this is it has brought insurance costs for medical liability insurance down by 20 percent in my home State of Texas, and, remember, medical liability costs were going up by 25 to 30 percent a year prior to the passage of that law. 
   So it has had an immediate and beneficial effect on physicians in Texas. And one of the unintended beneficiaries was the mid-sized, community-based, not-for-profit hospital who self-insured. Those hospitals have seen a significant reduction in the amount of moneys that they had to put toward medical liability, and, as a consequence, those are dollars that they are investing in capital improvements, nurses' salaries, the very things you would want your medium-sized, not-for-profit community hospital to do if they had the flexibility to do so. 
   I have legislation that I have drafted that bases off the Texas plan. I think it is reasonable legislation. In our budget resolution that the Republicans had, the savings, and this was scored by CBO as a savings, at a time we are looking for ways to save money in the healthcare system to pay for other things, it is almost unconscionable to walk away from that $8 to $10 billion in savings that CBO scored this particular legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I see that the hour, it goes so quickly when you get down here to talk about these things. I will wrap up. 
   I do want to point out that Americans, for all of the criticism that we have, there was an article in The New York Times published October 2006, Tyler Cowan, who writes, ``When it comes to medical innovation, the United States is the world leader. In the past 10 years, 12 Nobel Prizes in medicine have gone to American-born scientists working in the United States, three to foreign-born scientists working in the United States, and just seven have gone to researchers outside of the country.'' 
   That is what we need to preserve, protect and defend. That is why these issues are so important for us to face in this Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (REVISIONS TO ALLOCATION FOR HOUSE COMMITTEES -- (House of Representatives - July 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, this evening, I wanted to come to the floor of the House to talk once again a little bit about health care. Health care in this country is going to be something that is on the front pages during the next 18 months until the next Presidential election, I suspect, and something we're going to devote a great deal of time and energy to on the floor of this House, perhaps even this month. 
   As we debate the future of medical care in this country over the next 18 months and through the Presidential election that will follow in 2008 and the Congress that convenes in 2009, we've got to decide on the avenues through which our health care system will be based. And essentially, Mr. Speaker, right now we have a system that is based part on the government, part on the public sector, and partly on the private sector. 
   The issue before us is, do we expand the public sector? Do we expand the government's involvement in health care? Do we expand the government's involvement in the delivery of health services, as popularly referred to as universal health care, and back in the 1990s, it was termed ``Hillary care,'' or do we encourage and continue the private sector involvement in the delivery of health care? The two options bring about a significant number of questions and a significant number of concerns addressed on both sides of the aisle. But I'm hopeful that as we continue to study this problem and debate this problem in this body, we will shed some light on the direction that we should be taking. 
   And Mr. Speaker, I don't think there is any question that the United States has developed one of the best health care systems in the world. Access can be an issue, but the quality of health care practiced in this country is second to none. You have people coming from all over the world. When I was a medical student at the Texas Medical Center down in Houston, Texas, you would have people coming from all over the word to avail themselves of the medical care that was available at Texas Medical Center. And close to my district in north Texas, you have Southwestern Medical School in Dallas, a number of Nobel Laureates on the clinical faculty there. Unbelievable sources of talent and knowledge that are available to training the young physicians of tomorrow. 
   So these are the types of things we've got to be certain that we preserve, protect and defend as we do things that will perhaps alter the way medicine is practiced in this country. 
   Now, there are a lot of people who take issue with the fact that I maintain that the United States has the best health care system in the world. Plenty of people here in this body would say that's an overstatement. They would say, you've got a large number of uninsured people in this country, or prescription drugs cost way too much. The issues are there, but you know what, Mr. Speaker? The old saying is that numbers don't lie, but if you torture them long enough, they'll admit to almost anything. 
   We've got to dispense with a lot of the platitudes and the soundbites and try to get to really what is causing the problems that we have here, and how can we best go about correcting those problems? Well, how about applying some American ingenuity to getting those problems solved. 
   So, tonight, in talking about the different principles that guide the debate about public versus private in the delivery of health care services, it's important to concentrate a little bit on the background on how we got to the system that we have today. 
   The idea that we have a problem to solve is not new. Secretary Leavitt, I certainly agree with him when he made the remarks in a speech not too long ago that tackling the division between the two philosophies, public versus private, recently the Secretary said in a speech and in an op-ed piece, he posed the question, should the government own the system, or should the government be responsible for some organization in the system and leave the proprietary standpoint to someone else? 
   Mr. Speaker, during World War II, this country was faced with some significant problems, and one of the problems was the specter of inflation. So Franklin Roosevelt said, look, we're going to have wage and price controls in this country so that inflation doesn't get out of control. Employees found themselves highly sought after because a lot of the workforce was overseas fighting the war. Employers wanted to keep their employees happy. They wanted to keep them employed. They wanted to keep them loyal to their respective companies, but they were unable to raise wages because there was a Presidential decree that we were under wage and price controls. So the Supreme Court rendered a decision that benefits, things we talk about now  as a benefits package, health care, retirement, these things could be available and would not violate the spirit of President Roosevelt's wage and price controls. Thus, the era of health insurance benefits or employer-derived health insurance was born. And Mr. Speaker, it worked tremendously well, so well that it persisted well after the end of the Second World War. 
   Now, a lot of people will look at Western Europe and say, they've got a government-run system. Why don't we do what Europe did? How did Europe develop a system, a single-payer, government-run system? Even though some of the countries in Western Europe were victorious at the end of the Second World War, the war was fought in their back yard; their economies were devastated. It was important for their governments to stand up a medical care system quickly to avert a humanitarian crisis. That is what led to the institution of single-payer systems that you see in many countries in Europe today. 
   But America, by contrast, came through the war with a benefits package, if you will, that was available to employees. Employees like it. Employers liked it because the employees were happy. The employees stayed, to some degree, healthier and were able to work more effectively and less time off for sick leave. So the American system persisted and did very well for a number of years. 
   Now, fast forward some 20 years from the end of the war to the middle of the administration of Lyndon Johnson, fellow Texan, fellow House Member, albeit on the other side of the aisle, but during the tenure of President Johnson, he signed both the Medicare and the Medicaid programs into law. This was a large government program and represented a fundamental shift. It was the first time that the government got involved in a big way in running the practice of medicine. But it was created to focus on the elderly, to focus on their hospital care and their doctor care, and certainly make sure that persons who were then to be covered by Medicare weren't left in poverty in old age because of mounting medical bills. 
   But then fast forward another 40 years to the 108th Congress, and we had the Medicare system that was big and expensive and was very, very slow at change. It was like trying to turn a battleship. In 2003, in this House of Representatives, the President came to us, in the very first State of the Union message that I attended as a Member of Congress in my first term, and the President said he was going to, or this Congress was going to bring a Medicare prescription drug benefit to Medicare, that people had waited too long for this; it was too important to wait for another President or another Congress. And indeed, Congress set about the work of providing what we now know as the Part D benefit. And within the year, we voted on that package, and within the next year, it was, indeed, starting to be run. But the government system needed to address some of the inefficiencies that were built into the system. 
   Now, the Medicare prescription drug plan has given seniors access to medications that, quite frankly, they just didn't have available before. And when you look at how medicine has changed from 1965 to 2005, when the Medicare drug plan took effect, the changes that had been brought about by the advances in medical research, my dad was a doctor as well, and I used to tease him that, back in 1965, doctors only had two pharmaceutical choices, penicillin and cortisone, and they were regarded as interchangeable. My dad didn't think that was very funny. But the fact is, you come to 2005, look at the lives that have been saved by the introduction of a medicine like statin, medicines that are used for reduction of cholesterol. Dr. Elias Zerhouni of the National Institutes of Health estimates that 800,000 premature deaths have been prevented between 1965 and 2005 with the introduction of medicines to manage cholesterol and lipid levels in patient's blood. That's a tremendous change. In 1965, some people simply had the heart attack and died. In 2005, 2007, that no longer happens. But they are required, in order to maintain that state of health, to be maintained on a medication. Well, if the medicine is too expensive for the patient to buy, they don't take it, and they suffer the health consequences. And as a consequence, the system becomes more expensive because people end up utilizing the system more frequently and the outcomes for disease management become much worse. 
   The Medicare Prescription Drug Program has been successful. There have been a certain number of people who have been critical, but it has been a great benefit for seniors. And the fact that it is up and running now well into its second year, there is a great deal of satisfaction, and the penetrance into the number of people who have had prescription drug benefits who are covered by Medicare is now at an all-time high. 
   Now, in this country, as I mentioned earlier, the government pays for about half of our health care expenditures. We have a GDP of roughly $11 trillion in this country. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services states that Medicare and Medicaid services alone, in fact when we vote on our Labor-HHS appropriations bill this year, it will be significantly north of $600 billion.     
   So that is about a half of what we spend in health care. 
   The way the other half is broken down, primarily the weight is borne by commercial insurance, by private insurance. There is a significant number of dollars that are contributed as charity care or uncompensated care. Certainly there are some individuals who do still simply just pay for their medical care out of pocket, but about half are from the Government source and half from private sources or the goodwill of America's physicians. 
   The numbers are going to increase because the overall dollar expenditure in health care is going to increase. The baby boomers are aging. There are more and more advances discovered with every passing month. The Federal Government is going to continue to funnel taxpayer dollars into Medicare. We have to ask ourselves, are we getting value for the dollar? Are we doing the best that we possibly can do with that money? Is the government doing an excellent job of managing our health care dollars? Do we think that the government is better suited to be the arbiter of a person's health care needs, or are those decisions better left up to an individual and their family? And who, at the fundamental end of it all, who is better able, who is going to be able to handle the growing health care needs in this country? 
   I would argue that if you have a public only, a government-run system, a universal, single-payer system, that in America it is going to be a significant problem. In fact, it will have the perverse incentive of hampering our innovation and perhaps even hampering the delivery of the most modern health care services available. 
   As an example, I would suggest that we have a model that we can examine, and that is our neighbor to the north in Canada. Canada has a completely government-run system. The Supreme Court in Canada in 2005, however, said that the waiting times in Canada were unconscionable and access to a waiting list did not equate to the same thing as access to care. 
   Now, in Canada they actually have a safety valve, because if somebody needs a medical procedure or needs a medical test done, they actually do have an area where there is a surplus of medical care available, and that would be on their southern border, the United States of America. So if somebody has the ability to pay and wants to come from Canada and cross the border to Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, they are very capable of doing that. I am certain that the good folks at Henry Ford Hospital welcome their neighbors from Toronto all the time to sell essentially excess capacity that they have, whether it be an MRI or a CT scan or even a mammogram, heart surgery, or an artificial hip. The things that are on the waiting list in Canada that might take months or even years can be accessed relatively quickly simply by crossing the border. The waiting list is significantly long for some procedures. 
   If we look across the ocean to the country of Great Britain, the National Health Service, of course, has long been established in Britain. The citizens of that country regard their health system with a good deal of affection. But there is, in fact, a two-tier system in England. If someone is on a list for a hip replacement and has the  money to pay for it, they can go outside the system to a private orthopedic physician and have that surgery performed. Obviously, someone who doesn't have the means to provide that for themselves will simply have to stay on the waiting list. You get into a little trouble with the fact that when it takes so long, if someone is of a certain age, another year or two wait is a significant percentage of their remaining expected life years. In many ways that is not fair either. A sad reality that exists, but it is true. 
   So, in both instances, you can see that where the single-payer, government-run system has been oversubscribed, where they have a private system, either here in the United States for the country of Canada or a two-tiered system in the country of Great Britain, they have a private system to act as a backstop. 
   So, the question that I would ask is, if the private sector is more nimble and more able to provide care on a timely basis, why in the world would we do anything that would interfere with that system? It is a complex relationship. 
   How Congress does its job and how we react to the situation can, in fact, have a significant impact on making sure that we have the best health care possible. Certainly I think it is incumbent upon Congress to promote policies that keep the private sector involved in the delivery of health care in this country. 
   Now, you almost can't talk about health care in this country without talking about the problem of the uninsured. Regardless of the number you use, whether it is 42, 45 or 46 million, it does become a question of access for people without insurance. 
   But I would also point out that health care is rendered all the time in this country to people who don't have insurance or don't have the means to pay for it. It is not always rendered in the time frame that would be most propitious for the best health outcome, and certainly it is not always administered in the time frame where it is the least expensive type of care, but access to care in this country is, in fact, something that is generally available. But it can become very expensive and the time involved can be significant. 
   Now, we have a program in this country. It is about to turn 10 years old. In fact, it is a program that we have to reauthorize this year or it will expire at the end of September. This is a program that provides health insurance for children whose parents earn too much money for them to qualify for Medicaid and not enough money to purchase health insurance. So we have the SCHIP program that operates as a joint Federal-State partnership. It does provide some flexibility to States to determine the standards for providing health care funding for those children, again, who are not eligible for Medicaid and whose parents have not been able to get private insurance. The program has been very well thought of. It has been very successful across the board. 
   This year, in fact, before September 30, we have to reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program. There is going to be a lot of debate. I suspect there will be a lot of debate this month. Certainly, in my Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Ways and Means, there will be a lot of debate on the best way to go forward with that. 
   One of the things I have had a problem with since coming to Congress and examining the SCHIP system is the fact that it is a program that was designed to cover children, but, in fact, we have some States that cover adults. Pregnant women, okay, it is reasonable to have them covered under the SCHIP system. But nonpregnant adults, it strains credulity to have a system that is there to provide health care for children, and in four States in this country we actually have more adults covered under the SCHIP program than we do children. 
   Certainly, where you have a State where all of the uninsured children have been covered by the SCHIP program, it may be appropriate to cover some adults. But until that trigger point is met, until that condition is met, to me it makes less sense to cover adults, when there are children who would benefit from having the coverage from the State Children's Health Insurance Program, to have them remain uncovered while we cover a population where the money was never intended to be used for that purpose. 
   A bill that I introduced, H.R. 1013, would make certain that SCHIP funds are spent exclusively on children and pregnant women and not on any other group. I hope to be able to have that concept considered when we go through the reauthorization of the SCHIP program. 
   Last year in Congress we also debated and got through the committee process the reauthorization for Federally Qualified Health Centers. We did not finish the work on that legislation, so we are likely to have to take that up again this year. 
   But about someone who is not a child, not a pregnant woman, who doesn't have access to health insurance, there are many places in the country where Federally Qualified Health Centers exist that give the patients access to health care without insurance; gives them a medical home, gives them continuity of care, a place they can go and see the same health care providers, whether it be a physician or nurse practioner, can see that person over and over again; provides primary health, oral and mental health and substance abuse services to persons at all stages in the life cycle. 
   Federally Qualified Health Centers take care of 15 million people in this country every year, typically 
   someone who does not have insurance and so would be counted as one of the uninsured, but the reality is that they do have access to the continuity of care, just as someone who has insurance. Both the SCHIP program and the Federal Qualified Health Centers are designed to help the poorest, youngest and neediest in our communities. 
   But what about for individuals who can afford to pay some for their health services but just choose not to? We need to get past that point, and certainly there are two things that would improve the access to health insurance for people who do have the ability to pay something for their health care, health savings accounts and health association plans. 
   Health savings accounts are a tax-advantaged medical savings account available to taxpayers who are enrolled in a high-deductible health plan, a health insurance plan with lower premiums and a higher deductible than a traditional health plan. In the old days we used to refer to this as a catastrophic health plan. 
   Now, about 1996 or 1997, long before I ever thought about running for Congress, I was a physician in practice back in Texas. The Kennedy-Kassebaum bill was passed by the House and Senate and signed into law. It had in it what was called a demonstration project that would allow 750,000 people in the United States to sign up for at that time what were called medical savings accounts. 
   I subscribed to one of those. I purchased one of those for my family. The primary reason I did it was not even so much cost considerations but because it kept me in control of making health-care decisions. Those were the days when HMOs and 1-800 numbers were the order of the day, and I wanted to be certain that the health care decisions made in my family were made by my family and not by a bureaucrat or an insurance executive at the end of a 1-800 number. 
   The medical savings account proved to have a lot of restrictions on them. For that reason, a lot of people shied away from them. So I don't know that they ever got to their full enrollment of 750,000, but to me it was another very viable form of insurance. 
   Again, the premiums were lower because the deductible was higher, and you were able to put money into an account like an IRA, called a medical IRA, that would grow tax-free. The interest in it would grow tax-free year over year. This money could be used only for legitimate medical expenses, but if you found yourself in a situation where you needed to pay for medical care, yes, you had a high deductible, but now you have saved some money that can offset the high deductible. 
   When the Medicare Modernization Act passed in 2003, we also did away with a lot of the regulations and restrictions on medical savings accounts, and the follow-on for that are what are called health savings accounts or HSAs. 
   For an HSA, the funds contributed to the account are not subject to the income tax and can only be used to pay  for medical expenses. But one of the best parts about having an HSA is that all deposits stay the property of the policyholder. They don't go to the insurance company. They don't go to the government. They stay under the control and ownership of the person who has put those funds, regardless of the source of the deposit. So even if an employer makes a contribution to that, the funds belong to the person who owns the insurance policy. Additionally, any funds deposited that are not used that year will stay in the fund and grow year over year, different from the old use-it-or-lose-it programs that were so prevalent and popular during the 1990s. 
   The popularity of health savings accounts has grown considerably since its inception. The latest numbers I have are, unfortunately, a couple of years old. They are from 2005. But by December of that year, 3.5 million people had insurance coverage through an HSA. Of that number, 42 percent of the individuals are families who had income levels below $50,000 a year and were purchasing an HSA type of insurance. Additionally, about another 40 percent were individuals who previously had not been insured. So this allowed a way for people who were previously uninsured to access insurance. A good number of those folks were between the ages of 50 and 60, taking away some credence to the myth that HSAs are only for the healthy and wealthy. 
   These programs have been well-subscribed. Again, the numbers that I have are from 2005. I suspect they are much more robust at this point. 
   Well, when you consider a young person just getting out of college, roundabout age 25, if they don't want to go to work for a major corporation and therefore have employer-derived insurance, what are their options? I will tell you, 10 years ago, you didn't have many options. In fact, I tried to purchase a health insurance policy for an adult child just in that situation. You almost couldn't get an insurance policy for a single individual, regardless of the price you were willing to pay. 
   Fast forward to 2005 or 2007. You can go on the Internet, type ``health savings account'' into the search engine of your choice, and very quickly you will be given a plethora of choices from a variety of different health plans. In my home State of Texas, a male age 25 looking for health insurance can find a high-deductible PPO plan from a reputable insurance provider for between $60 and $70 a month. So that is eminently affordable. 
   Sure, there is a high deductible involved with that. That means every fall, if you go get a flu shot, you are probably going to pay for that flu shot out-of-pocket, or if you have money in your health savings account, you can make a draw on that.     
   So that type of expense is not going to be covered, but if that individual is in an accident and ends up spending 3 or 4 hours in the emergency room and a day in the intensive care unit, they will be covered because those expenses will rapidly exceed their deductible. That individual will be covered with health insurance. That is a concept that we need to make people aware of, that there are options. Even though you may work for a company that doesn't provide insurance or you are self-employed and are a small group and otherwise would not have access to employer-derived health insurance, the concept of a health savings account is available and marketed over the Internet, and there is a lot of competition for those products. As a consequence of that competition, the price on those has come down in the years since they were introduced. 
   Mr. Speaker, another concept that we have debated in this House at least every year I have been here is the concept of association health plans. Association health plans allow small employers to band together to get the purchasing power of a larger corporation when they go out and price insurance on the open market. 
   To date, we have passed that legislation four times that I can recall in the House of Representatives. It never passed in the Senate. I would like to see us take up and at least discuss that as a possibility this year. I don't know in fact if that will happen. But association health plans may not bring down the number of uninsured directly, but it certainly would help bend the growth curve that is going upward of the number of people not covered by insurance because it allows for small employers to get access to much more economic leverage in the market for buying insurance policies and allows them to be able to offer that insurance policy to their employees in the small group market. 
   It means that a group of perhaps Chambers of Commerce or a group of realtors could band together and offer health insurance to their employees where otherwise it might not have been available. All of these things are important. 
   Another factor to consider, and we have to be careful here, about a year and a half ago, Alan Greenspan was talking to us just before he left his position at the Federal Reserve. Someone brought up the topic of Medicare, and where is the funding going to come from? Mr. Greenspan said he was confident at some point in the future Congress will come to grips with this problem and will solve this problem. 
   But he went on to say what concerns me more is, will there be anyone there to provide the service when you require it? Those words really struck me. What he is talking about, are there going to be doctors there in the future? Are there going to be nurses in the future to provide for us when we are the ones who are relying on Medicare for our health services? 
   Back in my home State of Texas, the Texas Medical Association puts out a journal called Texas Medicine, and last March they had a special issue called, ``Running Out of Doctors.'' 
   Our country faces a potential crisis with a health care provider shortage or a physician shortage in the future. So when we work on health care issues in this body and on both sides of the aisle, this is going to be important; when we work on health care issues in Congress, we have to be is certain that we retain the doctors of today, that we encourage the doctors who are in training today, and that we encourage those young people who might consider a career in health care, that we encourage them to pursue that dream and realize that dream. 
   Certainly the doctors of today, those at the peak of their clinical abilities, it is incumbent upon us to make certain that they remain in practice and they continue to provide services, services to our Medicare patients and services to patients who typically have one, two, three or more medical problems. Some of the most complex medical issues that can face a practitioner today will occur in the Medicare population. 
   Well, what steps do we need to take to make certain that we have doctors in practice, that we have people there able to deliver those services that Alan Greenspan was talking about a year and a half ago? Well, Mr. Speaker, you almost can't have this discussion without talking a little bit about medical liability. Now, in the 4 years prior to this Congress, every year, again, we passed some type of medical liability reform bill in the House of Representatives. It never got enough votes in the Senate to cut off debate and come to a vote. I feel certain it would have passed had it come to an up-or-down vote, but they were never to muster the 60 votes. 
   We need commonsense medical liability reform to protect patients, to protect patients' access to physicians, to stop the continuous escalation of costs associated with medical liability in this country. And in turn, this makes health care more affordable and more accessible for more Americans because we keep the services available in the communities as they are needed, when they are needed. 
   Mr. Speaker, I believe we need a national solution. Our State-to-State responses to this problem, some areas, like my State of Texas, have gone a long ways towards solving the problem, but there are many areas in the country where the problem persists, and it does remain a national problem. 
   We have an example, I think a good example, in my home State of Texas of exactly the type of legislation that we should be considering in the House of Representatives. Texas, in 2003, brought together the major stakeholders in the discussion, included the doctors, patients, hospitals, nursing homes, and crafted legislation that was modeled after the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975 that was passed in California in 1975. There were  some differences with the California law, but basically it is a cap on noneconomic damages. In Texas, we had a significant problem as far as medical liability was concerned. We had medical liability insurers that were leaving the State. They were simply not going to write any more policies. They closed up shop and left town because they couldn't see a future in providing medical liability coverage in Texas. We went from 17 insurers down to two at the end of 2002, the year I first ran for Congress. The rates were increasing year over year. Running my own practice in 2002, my rates were increasing by 30 to 50 percent a year. 
   In 2003, the State legislature passed medical liability reform, again based on the California law of 1975. The California law in 1975 was also a cap on noneconomic damages. They had a single cap of $250,000 on all noneconomic damages. 
   In Texas, the cap was trifurcated. There was a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages as it pertains to a physician, a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages as it pertains to the hospital and a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages as it pertains to a nursing home or a second hospital; so an aggregate cap of $750,000 on noneconomic damages. 
   How has the Texas plan fared? Remember, we had gone from 17 insurers down to two because of the medical liability crisis in the State. Now we are back up to 14 or 15 carriers. And most importantly, those carriers have returned to the State without a premium increase. 
   In 2006, 3 years after the passage of the medical 
   liability reform, an insurance company called Medical Protective, I had a policy with them for years and years, Medical Protective company cut their rates 10 percent, which was the fourth reduction since April of 2005. 
   Texas Medical Liability Trust, my last insurer of record when I left practice in Texas, has had an aggregate cut of 22 percent since the law was passed. 
   Advocate MD, another insurance company, has filed a 19.9 percent rate decrease. Another company called Doctor's Company has announced a 13 percent rate cut. These are real numbers, and they affect real people in real practice situations in Texas. It is a significant reversal. 
   The year when I first came to Congress, we lost one-half of the neurosurgeons in the metroplex because of the medical liability expense problem. The doctor looked at the renewal bill and said, I cannot work enough to pay for this and pay for my practice and support my family, so I will go elsewhere. The net effect is it put the whole trauma system in north Texas at risk because one neurosurgeon was going to have to do the work of two, and you cannot physically work 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, delivering that type of care. So the whole trauma system was put at risk before this law went into effect in Texas. 
   A young perinatologist whom I met during my first year in office, had gone on and gotten specialized training to care for those high-risk pregnancies, well, you can imagine what his medical liability premiums were. Mine were high as an obstetrician. His were even higher as a perinatologist who specialized only in high-risk cases. And, in fact, at a lecture in Texas, he came to me and said, you know, I am going to have to leave the practice of medicine altogether because I simply cannot get insurance. 
   Well, how are we furthering the cause of patient care if we take a young person who is very dedicated to taking care of the highest-risk pregnancies in the metroplex and we say, sorry, you can't practice because we can't get you insurance anywhere. Happily, in Texas, that situation reversed, and that doctor, I know, is in practice. 
   The problem with the neurosurgeon, because of the straightening out of the insurance in Texas, has been reversed. Our trauma system is protected, as is the young man who is practicing high-risk obstetrics and saving babies even as we speak. 
   One of the unintended beneficiaries of the legislation was the benefit for community, small, mid-sized community not-for-profit hospitals who were self insured as far as medical liability was concerned. They had to put so much money in escrow to cover potential bad outcomes that that money was just tied up, and it was not available to them. Now they have been able to back some of that money out of escrow because of putting stability into the system with the cap on noneconomic damages, and now they are able to use that money for capital expansion, nurses' salaries, exactly what you want your small community not-for-profit hospitals to be engaged in. They can, once again, participate in those activities because of the benefits from the medical liability plan that was passed in Texas. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, I took the language of the Texas medical liability plan, worked with legislative counsel and made it so it would conform with all of our constructs here in the House of Representatives. And although I didn't introduce that legislation, I offered it to the ranking member on our Budget Committee last spring when we offered our Republican budget here on the floor of the House. 
   Mr. Ryan, the ranking member, had that scored by the Congressional Budget Office, and the Texas plan as applied by the House of Representatives legislative counsel and applied to the entire 50 States would yield a savings of $3.8 billion scored over a 5-year time span. That is not a mammoth amount of money when we talk about the types of dollars we talk about in our Federal budget, some $2.999 trillion, but $3.8 billion over 5 years is not insignificant. And it is basically money that we left on the table because we did not include the language of that medical liability reform in the budget that was passed this year. 
   Now, when I say the problem, although the problem in Texas is measurably better than it was when I took office here, consider a 1996 study done at Stanford University that revealed within the Medicare system alone the cost of defensive medicine, that is medicine that you practice so that you tone the chart and you look good if something goes wrong and the case is brought to trial; if you have practiced satisfactory defensive medicine, you will be able to defend yourself in the case of a medical liability suit. A couple of doctors and economists at Stanford got together and said, what does this cost Medicare? What does it cost for doctors to practice this type of defensive medicine? And it cost about $28 billion a year back in 1996. I would submit that the number is probably higher today if they were to revise and redo that study.     
   So that is a significant amount of money, and the Medicare system is the one that pays for that. Remember, Medicare runs about $300 billion a year. That's almost 10 percent of its budget that is being spent on defensive medicine because of the broken medical liability system we have here in this country. We can scarcely afford to continue on that trajectory that we're on with the medical liability system in this country. 
   Another consideration, Mr. Speaker, I talked a little bit about young people who are perhaps considering a career in medicine or nursing, and the current medical liability system is a deterrent for going into the practice of health care because they look at the burden that's placed on young doctors and nurses for the payment for medical liability insurance, and we keep people out of the system and it's something we have to consider because, again, remember, we're talking about physician workforce issues and how we keep the doctors of today in practice, but how do we encourage that young person who's in middle school or high school today who's thinking about a career in one of the health professions, and we want them to be able to pursue that dream. 
   But currently, they get to the end of college and they look at the expense for getting medical training, they look at the money they will have to put up front to purchase their medical liability policy when they get out, and they say maybe it's not worth it. 
   And the problem, Mr. Speaker, with that is these are our children's doctors and our children's children's doctors who perhaps are not going to go into the healing professions because of problems within the medical liability system. I could talk about that a great deal longer, but let me get to three specific pieces of legislation that really get to the core of dealing with the physician workforce issues and I think the  problems that we're going to face in the future if we don't get our arms around this problem. 
   A recent piece of legislation that I introduced is H.R. 2584, the so-called Physician Workforce and Graduate Medical Education Enhancement Act of 2007. Part of this legislation is to ensure this workforce in the future by helping young doctors with the availability of residency programs. 
   One thing about physicians is we tend to have a lot of inertia. We tend to go into practice where we did our residency. We tend to not go too far from home when it comes to setting up a medical practice. 
   So with that in mind, and in fact, that was one of the main thrusts of the article that was included in Texas Medicine, is to develop more residency programs in the communities where the medical need is greatest and develop those residency programs with the type of physician that's needed in those medical communities: primary care to be certain; obstetrics to be certain; general surgery; again, the types of physicians that we want to be on the front lines practicing in our medium-sized communities. We need to get young doctors in training in locations where they're actually needed. 
   This bill, the physician workforce bill, would develop a program that would permit hospitals that do not traditionally operate a residency training program the opportunity to start a residency training program and build a physician workforce of the future and build it from the ground up, start at home, start right where it's going to be needed. 
   On average, it costs $100,000 a year to train a resident, and that cost for a smaller hospital obviously can be prohibitive. Because of the cost consideration, my bill would create a loan fund available to hospitals to create residency training programs where none has operated in the past. The program would require full accreditation and be generally focused in rural suburban inner community hospitals and focus on those specialties that are in the greatest need, and that will, of necessity, be some of the primary care specialties that I just mentioned. 
   Well, what about those people who may not yet be in medical school but may be contemplating a career in health care? Locating young doctors where they're needed is just part of solving the impending physician shortage crisis that I think will affect the entire health care system nationally. Another aspect that must be considered is training doctors for high-need specialties. 
   The second bill, H.R. 2583, the High Need Physician Specialty Workforce Incentive Act of 2007, will establish a mix of scholarship, loan repayment funds and tax incentives to entice more students to medical school and create incentives for those students and newly minted doctors to stay in those communities. 
   This program will have an established repayment program for students who agree to go into family practice, internal medicine, emergency medicine, general surgery or OB/GYN and practice in a designated underserved area. It will be a 5-year authorization at $5 million per year. It will provide additional educational scholarships in exchange for a commitment, a commitment to serve in a public or private non-profit health facility determined where there's a critical shortage of primary care physicians. 
   Well, in addressing the physician workforce crisis, looking a little bit at residency programs, looking a little bit at medical students and, of course, medical liability but the placement of doctors in locations of greatest need and the financial concerns of encouraging doctors to remain in high-need specialties, the next bill, H.R. 2585, will address perhaps what is the largest group of doctors in this country, what I like to call the mature physician, and certainly the largest and still growing group of patients, our baby boomers, those who are just on Medicare and those soon to be on Medicare. 
   Now, before I get too far into this, I'm joined by my friend from Pennsylvania. Did you wish to weigh in on this subject this evening? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (REVISIONS TO ALLOCATION FOR HOUSE COMMITTEES -- (House of Representatives - July 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman for his input. Certainly, the ability to recruit doctors to Texas from Pennsylvania has been greatly enhanced by the passage of the Texas medical liability bill, but you point up a very real problem that the physicians in Pennsylvania face. And, again, it points up the need for a national solution to wait and have the process work its way through every State legislature, State by State. It costs an enormous amount of money, costs an enormous amount of time, and just the effort, the efficiency of those doctors affected is going to be diminished. 
   So I really appreciate the gentleman taking the time to come down here and add his thoughts about what is happening in his home State of Pennsylvania.  
   Mr. Speaker, let me go on and talk just a little bit about H.R. 2585. That will address some of the problems that are faced by the physicians who are in practice now, the physicians who are the primary source of care for our Medicare patients. As baby boomers retire, the demand for services is going to go nowhere but up, and if the physician workforce trends of today continue, we may not be talking about a Medicare funding problem. We may be talking about why there is no one there to take care of our seniors. 
   Year after year, there's a reduction in the reimbursement payments from the Center of Medicare and Medicaid Services to physicians for the services they provide for Medicare patients. It's not a question of doctors just simply wanting to make more money. It's about a stabilized repayment for services that have already been rendered, and it isn't just affecting doctors. The problem also affects patients. It becomes a real crisis of access. 
   Not a week goes by that I don't get a letter from a physician from somewhere in the country or a fax that says, you know what, I've just had it up to here, and I'm going to stop seeing Medicare patients. I'm going to retire early. I'm no longer going to accept new Medicare patients in my practice, or I'm going to restrict those procedures that I offer to Medicare patients. 
   And, unfortunately, I know this is happening because I saw it in the hospital environment before I left practice 5 years ago to come to Congress, and I hear it in virtually every town hall that I have in my district. Someone will raise their hand and say how come on Medicare, you turn 65 and you've got to change doctors. And the answer is, because their doctor found it no longer economically viability to continue to see Medicare patients because they weren't able to pay for the cost of delivering the care. They weren't able to cover the cost of delivering the care. 
   Now, Medicare payments to physicians are modified annually under a formula that is known as the ``sustainable growth rate.'' Because of flaws in the process and flaws built into the formula, the SGR-mandated physician fee cuts in recent years have only been moderately averted at the last minute; and if long-term congressional action is not implemented, the SGR will continue to mandate physician cuts. 
   Now, unlike hospital reimbursement rates which closely follow the consumer price index that measures the cost of providing care, physician reimbursements do not. I have a graph here, again from the Texas Medical Association, that shows based on various calendar years what the cuts in the SGR formula have amounted to as far as physician reimbursement versus what the cost-of-living adjustment has been for Medicare Advantage, the Medicare HMOs, for hospitals, for nursing homes, for pharmaceuticals now would be the same type of formula. 
   Only physicians are asked to live under this formula. In fact, ordinarily Medicare payments do not cover or only cover about 65 percent of the actual cost of providing the patient services. Can you imagine going to any industry or company and ask them to continue in business when you're only paying them 65 percent of what it costs them to stay in business? 
   The SGR links physician payments updates to the gross domestic product and the reality is that has no relationship to the cost of providing patient services. But simply the repeal of the SGR has been difficult because it costs a lot of money; but perhaps if we do it over time, perhaps we can bring that down to a level that's manageable. 
   Paying physicians fairly will extend the career of practicing physicians who would otherwise opt out of the Medicare program, seek early retirement or severely restrict those procedures that they offer to their Medicare patients. It also has the effect of ensuring an adequate network of doctors available to older Americans as this country makes a transition to the physician workforce of the future. 
   In the new physician payment stabilization bill, the SGR formula would be repealed in the year 2010, 2 years from now, but would also provide incentive payments based on quality reporting and technology improvements. These incentive payments would be installed to protect the practicing physician against that 5 percent cut that is estimated to occur in 2008 and 2009.     
   Note that this would be voluntary. No one would be required to participate in either program that dealt with quality improvement or technology improvement, but it would be available to doctors or practices who wanted to offset the proposed cuts that would occur in physician reimbursement until the 2 years time the physician repayment formally can be repealed. 
   Now I know that a lot of the doctors don't like the concept of postponing the SGR by 2 years. In fact, in the bill 2585, by resetting the baseline of the SGR formula, a technique that we used in this Congress back in 2003, by resetting the baseline, the amount of cuts contemplated for 2008 and 2009 are actually modified significantly, and, in fact, there may not be a cut at all in 2008 or 2009. This could translate into an actual positive update for physicians in those 2 years. 
   But the critical thing, in my mind, is that we have to be, regardless of what we decide to do over the next 2 years, we have got to be working on a long-term solution to get out from under the tyranny of the SGR formula. 
   Now, why do it this way? Why not just bite the bullet and get the SGR out of the way and get it repealed once and for all? The problem is, it costs a tremendous amount of money to do that. The problem we have in Congress is, if we are required to submit all legislation that we propose to the Congressional Budget Office to find out how much something costs, we are going to be spending the taxpayers' money, we have got to know how much we are going to spend, over what time will we spend it. 
   Because of the constraints in the Congressional Budget Office, we are not allowed to do what's called dynamic scoring. We can't look ahead and say, you know, if we do this, we are going to save money. The Congressional Budget Office doesn't work that way. 
   That's why postponing the renewal of the SGR by 2 years, take that savings that is going to occur over those 2 years, sequester it and aggregate that savings and put it towards paying for the repeal of the SGR and replacing it with a cost of living index, the Medicare, economic index that would be fundamentally much fairer. 
   One of the main thrusts of the bill is to require the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services to do just exactly that and to look at the 10 diagnostic codes for which most of the monetary expenditures are rendered. You know the old bank robber, Willie Sutton, when he was asked why he would rob the bank, he said, that's where the money is. Let's go to where the money is. Let's go to those top 10 procedures and diagnoses that spend the greatest amount of Medicare and look for where the greatest amount of savings can be found within that. 
   The same considerations actually apply to the Medicaid program as well, so it will be useful to go through this process in identifying those top 10 conditions and trying to modify things so that the delivery of care for those top 10 conditions actually ends up costing us less. 
   With the time that remains, I know I have talked about a lot of stuff tonight, a lot of it is technically very complex. I will admit it, a lot of it is actually very boring to listen to. But it is an incredibly important subject, and it is an incredibly important story that we have to tell here in Congress. It's a story of how the most advanced, most innovative and most appreciated health care system in the world actually needs a little help itself. 
   The end of the story should read, ``happily ever after,'' but how are we going to get to that conclusion? In fact, the last chapter may well read, ``private industry leads to a healthy ending.'' 
   At the beginning of this hour, we talked about the debate that will forever change the face of health care in this country. Again, I think it's important to understand, that we understand here in Congress, that we understand what's working in our system and what is not. We can't delay making the changes and bringing health care into the 21st century. 
   I believe the only way we can make this work is if we allow the private sector to be involved, to stay involved and, in fact, lay the foundation for the improvements that we all want.  
   The pillars of this system are that we are going to have, be rooted in, the bedrock of a thriving private sector, not the tenuous ground of a public system that has proven costly and inefficient in other countries. 
   I believe we need to devote our working Congress to building a stronger system and involving the private sector within that system. History has proven this to be a tried and true method. We can bring down the number of insured. We can increase patient access. We can stabilize the physician workforce, and we can modernize through technology, and we can bring transparency into the system. Each of these goals is within our grasp if we only have the foresight and the determination, the political courage to achieve each goal. 
   Again, I referenced when I was a medical student in Houston, people would come from around the world to come to the Texas Medical Center for their care. There is a reason that people come from around the world to the United States for their health care and for their treatment. We are the best, but we must make adjustments to remain at the top of the game. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chairman, I thank the ranking member for yielding me this time. 
   I appreciate Mr. Hensarling's comments as well. My comments this evening are going to be directed toward the entitlement program known as Medicare. It does seem that the budget, before this evening, the budget we are debating, does lack a lot. It has a significant deficiency. 
   The gentleman from Texas (Mr. Hensarling) has already pointed out the lack of any real entitlement reform; but there is a missed opportunity in this budget which is disturbing. Yesterday in the Rules Committee, I offered an amendment which was not made in order. This amendment was relatively simple. It would have provided for reconciliation instructions, require the House Judiciary Committee to take up and report to the full House a bill that would reform our medical justice system, and limit the number of lawsuits of questionable merit in order to achieve an overall savings of $2 billion over 5 years. 
   By capping noneconomic damages at $250,000 per provider, $500,000 per case for noneconomic damages, the CBO estimates that this amendment would save nearly $2 billion over 5 years, $4.5 billion over 10. 
   Because the practice of defensive medicine is so pervasive, this amendment would establish a liability safety net for many States. It would also insulate providers from lawsuits of questionable merit while ensuring just compensation for those who have been truly injured. 
   Defensive medicines increases the cost of medical care. It reduces access for patients, and increases the cost of programs like Medicare and Medicaid for the United States taxpayer. This is doubly important as costs increase in Medicare and Medicaid year after year, and we seek savings to make certain that these programs are solvent and viable for those who depend on them now and well into the future. 
   Medicare and Medicaid represent a growing expenditure of over $600 billion a year for the Federal Government. As the medical liability crisis grows, a large fraction of these dollars will be spent on inefficient health care services provided more to protect the provider from a lawsuit than to improve the patient's health. 
   Effective medical liability reform would constrain the growth of vital programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and ensure their long-term viability. 
   I am happy that the Republican substitute addresses this issue in a responsible manner. Once again, it is an example of a missed opportunity by the budget before us tonight. I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on the budget and ``yes'' on the Republican substitute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the chairman. 
   As the chairman knows we, of course, worked on this together last night on the Rules Committee until late into the night, so I know the chairman and I are both a little under the weather today. 
   Mr. Chairman, under the changes that have been made in regards to the income disregards in the bill, could a State in its current practice still allow a family to exclude from income $500 a year for child care expenses? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. So State income disregards, now, are up to $40,500, if I am doing my math correctly? Or if I could then just ask one last question, several people have alluded on this floor today that 6.6 million children will lose their health insurance if the House does not act. 
   Mr. Chairman, you know and I know that this Congress, this Speaker, is not so insensitive as to allow this health insurance to expire for these children. We will do an extension. We will do what is required to continue to allow coverage for the children until Congress passes the bill; is that not correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - October 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
   Madam Speaker, I come to the floor of the House today to say that I support the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program. It's a good program that deserves to be reauthorized. I wasn't here when it was first passed in 1997, but I believe in the original intent of this program. 
   Madam Speaker, I believe it is critical to focus on the most important recipients of this program: That's the poor children, poor kids first. 
   Madam Speaker, this debate is not about money; it is about freedom. And it is also critical to remember to focus on what is necessary to do to cover the poor kids. And every opportunity for expansion, every opportunity for expansion based on income set-asides, expanding covering adults, expanding covering people in the country without the benefit of a Social Security number, every time we expand the benefit, we limit the benefit for the poor and the near poor, the initial population that we were supposed to be covering. We can't cover those other populations at the expense of people that we are required to take care of. 
   Finding more of the truly eligible children is hard work. It's hard work, but it's the right thing to do. Hard work first. It is the right thing to do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICE NEGOTIATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I might ask, does ideological purity trump sound public policy? Of course, it shouldn't, but, unfortunately, it appears we are on the threshold of profound changes in the Medicare part D prescription drug program, a program that is working well, a program that has arrived on time and under budget. 
   Think of that, Mr. Speaker. Here is a Federal agency that delivered on a promise that we made here in Congress, daybreak, November 22, 2003, and it arrived on time and under budget. When have you known a Federal agency to behave in such a way? 
   The changes are not being proposed because of any weakness or defect in the program, despite the comments of my distinguished chairman. The changes are being proposed because a  viable program lacks the proper partisan label. 
   Since the inception of the part D program, America's seniors have had access to greater coverage at a lower cost than at any time since the inception of Medicare, well over 40 years ago. Indeed, over the past year, saving money has not just been a catchy slogan; it has been a welcome reality for the millions of American seniors who previously lacked prescription drug coverage. 
   Under the guise of negotiation, the Democrats propose to enact draconian price controls on pharmaceutical products. The claim is billions of dollars of savings. But the experts in the Congressional Budget Office yesterday denied that the promised savings will actually materialize. The reality is competition has brought significant cost savings to the program and, subsequently, to the seniors who depend upon this program every day. 
   Consider that the enrollment in the part D program began just a little over a year ago and has proven to be a success. CMS reports that approximately 38 million people, 90 percent of all Medicare beneficiaries, are receiving comprehensive coverage, either through part D, an employer-sponsored retiree health plan, or other credible coverage, including the VA. 
   But consider this: retiree health coverage was disappearing at a rate of 10 percent a year prior to the enactment of the Medicare Modernization Act 4 years ago. Further, the cost of the program for 2006 was $13 billion below budget estimates. Half of that amount of savings was attributed to competition. The projected average premium was originally $37 a month. That is what the HHS figured out was going to be the basic premium. That is the best their actuaries could do.     
   We will get that premium down to $37 a month. But the beneficiaries are actually paying an average premium of less than $24 a month. 
   Ninety-two percent of all Medicare beneficiaries will not enter the Medicare's cost coverage gap because they will not be exposed to the gap or they have prescription drug coverage from plans outside of part B, or their plan covers in the so-called gap. Eighty percent of the Medicare drug enrollees are satisfied with their coverage, and a similar percentage say that out-of-pocket costs have decreased. 
   With all that is going right about the program, it seems unwise and unkind to jeopardize its success. Specifically, just a month ago, the Wall Street Journal reported that negotiating prescription drug prices may actually lead to higher prices for consumers. Further, the Manhattan Institute For Policy Research advised that Federal price limitations will result in decreased investment and research and development on less new medicines and ultimately an overall negative impact on available pharmaceuticals. Available to whom? Available to the American people, Mr. Speaker. 
   Again, consider: Under the cloak of negotiation, the reality is that Federal price controls could have an extremely pernicious effect on the price and the availability of current pharmaceuticals and those products that may be available in the future to treat future patients. Is ideological branding so critical it trumps providing basic coverage to senior citizens? 
   Mr. Speaker, in a former life I used to study medical irony a lot. In the past 4 years, I have come to study political irony. The irony of this situation is that, for 40 years, various Presidents and Congresses tried to provide this benefit to the American people, to the American seniors, and it couldn't be done. It took a Republican President, a Republican House and a Republican Senate to provide this benefit. And therein is the problem. It lacks the proper partisan branding. 
   Mr. Speaker, while crafting policy that ultimately became the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, the concept of protecting the inclusion of market forces in the legislation was a critical aspect of the ultimate bill; and keeping in mind that the central tenet of providing recipients of the large Federal program access to Federal drugs with the emphasis being on taking care of those who were least well off and those who had the greatest health problems. 
   The Republican policy trusted the marketplace. They trusted the marketplace, with some guidance, to be the most efficient arbiter of distribution to achieve the above goals. We had no shortage of individuals who were concerned about the overall concept and scope of the program on the Republican side during the debate. But it is useful to compare the proposals that were proffered by the other side of the aisle during this time. 
   Specifically, there would have been limits on access to medicine to seniors, limits on pharmacies, and right from the beginning, there was a tacit acknowledgment that the program would cost considerably more money over time. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (OIL AND GAS AND THE ECONOMY -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, we all spend time with search engines. We all spend time with Google. You know, if you Google the term ``gambling'' you'll get millions of matches. And of course, you can't come to a Google page without seeing the Wikipedia. And if you go to Wikipedia to see about gambling, it states that ``Gambling has a specific economic definition, referring to wagering money or something of material value on an event with an uncertain outcome.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, this is exactly what is going on with energy policy here in the United States House of Representatives. Earlier today, the price of oil rose to a record high, nearly $106 a barrel. 
   We all feel pain at the pump. In fact, I drive a hybrid car back home, but it's still getting awfully expensive to fill up. And like any good Texan, I have a Ford F-150 pickup truck, and last week when I had to fill it with metal to drive to the recycler, it cost me almost $80 to fill up the truck. 
   In fact, since the Speaker of the House took the gavel on January 1, 2007, the average price of gasoline has increased by about $1 a gallon. The price of gas now back home for me is about where it was in the days after Hurricane Katrina. You remember Hurricane Katrina wiped out almost all the refining capacity in the United States, and the price of oil went up higher than anyone had ever seen it go before. The price of gas at the pump was higher than anyone had ever seen before, and we're there now. 
   And I've got to tell you, in Texas, this time of year, we generally have our cheapest gas. So what's it going to be on May 1 when we start having to have all of those fancy blended gasolines for the compliance with the Clean Air Act, and the peak of the summer driving season is about to start? We're likely to see gasoline at $4 a gallon back home. 
   And how does the House of Representatives handle this uncertainty and the resulting rise at the pump? By gambling. We bet our energy policy chips on future sources of energy that cannot fully support a country as large or as energy reliant as is the United States of America. 
   Last week, the House of Representatives voted to provide tax breaks to consumers who make green choices, and extends tax breaks to producers of renewable energy to create green jobs. Fair enough. But unfortunately, this scheme ignores the fact that green choices and renewable energy are currently more costly for consumers and are not yet ready for full market use. 
   In addition, the plan offsets these breaks by sending an $18 billion bill to the energy industry that will ultimately pass that cost on to the consumer. 
   Now, I'm not all that good at math, and I'm certainly not a gambler, but for the life of me, no matter how you add and subtract, I cannot understand how we stand to benefit by handicapping the very resources that we rely upon to get to work, to create our jobs, to go to school, to go to the grocery store or even to the doctor's office. By doing so, the democratic majority here in the House of Representatives is gambling American resources on a horse they know full well cannot possibly win the race. 
   Thanks to this legislation, the country has now lost $18 billion that could have been spent by experts in the energy industry to expand renewable and alternative energy capabilities, the same energy capabilities that this scheme purports to promote. 
   I hope these new green jobs are close to home, because workers are going to have to pay for walking shoes in addition to work boots. 
   Mr. Speaker, why is the majority willing to gamble our economic and national security on the uncertainty of the energy sources of tomorrow in order to bow to the billion dollar environmental industry today? 
   Of course, Members of this House want to expand alternative and renewable energy resources. In fact, we must do so, as we just heard in the last hour. We must have clean, safe, reliable, affordable sources of energy to continue to compete in the 21st century. But these are not new technologies in which we are investing. Ethanol has been subsidized since the 1970s, in fact, probably earlier than that. We've had solar and wind power capabilities since the 1980s. Yet, somehow this majority believes that the reason that these technologies have not taken over is because of some sort of cabal by the energy market. 
   So rather than financially support the research into new technology, this body chose to strap higher costs on the backs of already cash-strapped Americans. What about the needs of the Nation's families today? What about the families struggling to pay for oil to heat their homes, gas to drive their cars? 
   Today we face a slowing economy, a credit crunch. We have a hard hit housing sector. So how does the majority respond to those who are struggling to pay for gasoline and heating oil? They say the energy equivalent of ``let them eat cake.'' Let them pay for something that is inherently more expensive than the current market provides. 
   Mr. Speaker, if California wants to cut energy demand by pricing people out of the market, as we just heard in the last hour, that's fine for them. But please don't think that the rest of the American people are going to sit back and let that happen without a fight. 
   Our economy is suffering. Our energy needs are great. This is not the time to double down on short-term schemes that deals long-term problems. America relies on energy to fuel our economy and our lives. That means that America needs real change to spur the development of new technology in the fields of renewable and alternative energy. 
   Let's spur this development in the right way and invest in all forms of energy, and let's do so without prejudice, without handicapping or picking the winners and losers based upon the  cleanness or the carbon consciousness index, whatever that is. 
   Let me end by quoting the famous songster, Kenny Rogers, the Gambler, because it seems like an appropriate way to wrap up this discussion. ``You got to know when to hold them, you got to know when to fold them; know when to walk away and know when to run.'' 
   Let's hope the other body walks away from this risky democratic scheme so we can keep Americans from having to pick up the marker for the House's irresponsible gambling habit. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (SOLUTIONS TO TRADE PROBLEMS -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. I would thank the gentleman for yielding. Certainly, I was sitting in my office and watching you, watching your discussion with the American people tonight. I am always so grateful that you take the amount of time that you do to come to the floor and explain things to people in simple commonsense language that the average person can understand. I heard your discussion, of course, on fundamental tax reform. As you know, I am committed also to fundamental tax reform. 
   I knew that you wouldn't want your good friend Steve Forbes to think that you had forgotten all of the good things he had told us in a meeting about his flat tax. So I just wanted to remind the Members of Congress that in addition to H.R. 25, which deals with a consumption tax, there is also another approach to fundamental tax reform, which is H.R. 1040, what a clever number and scheme that is, which is the resurrection, if you will, of the flat tax that was previously espoused and popularized by former majority leader Dick Armey, and, of course, the subject of the ever popular book by Steve Forbes, the ``Flat Tax Revolution.'' 
   I am not sure how many weeks it has been on the bestseller list, but it certainly should have stayed on there for weeks at a time. 
   This really meets the criteria, meets the test that was set forth by the President at the start of his second term for a simple, fair, pro-growth tax. The flat tax almost immediately eliminates the marriage penalty. It repeals the death tax. It abolishes the alternative minimum tax. If there was ever a time to consider the abolishment of the alternative minimum tax, it is today with more and more middle class  people being pulled into that type of unfair taxation. It eliminates multiple taxation of investment income, and it allows for immediate expensing of business equipment. 
   This bill, H.R. 1040, which is a voluntary election for a flat tax, it is not a requirement. If someone has constructed their time and their talents and their financial portfolio towards compliance with the IRS code, God bless them, my hat is off to them. But if they would rather take a more fundamentally sane approach to their family's finances, to their business's finances, and wish to elect a flat tax system, this should be available to them. 
   My concern is that we don't trust the American people enough, that if we gave them the opportunity to coexist with the IRS code as it exists today, it is completely unintelligible and not understandable by anyone with any level of education, or we gave them the opportunity to elect into a simple flat tax that they would choose to do so. 
   In fact, the gentleman from Iowa is quite aware that, since November, the elections in November, we have heard a lot of discussion from the other side of the aisle about the so-called tax gap, the tax gap being that $350 billion which is assessed by the IRS but never collected. 
   Well, what are the reasons it is not collected? To be sure, there is some fundamental dishonesty that exists in some people. But some people just look at the IRS code and say it is too complicated, I am going to ignore it and hope it goes away, I am not going to deal with this, and they are caught, and they are punished. 
   It is a shame that has to happen. If they were allowed the option of having a simple pro-growth system, such as the fair tax, such as the flat tax, I think the American people would be all the richer for it. 
   I just want to point out one passage in Mr. Forbes's book, which does not deal so much with the bill that I introduced, and I know it is going to surprise the gentleman from Iowa to hear that, but in 1989, a Senator requested a revenue forecast from Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation, on a hypothetical tax increase, raising the top rate to 100 percent. There is a flat tax, 100 percent on incomes over $200,000. The Joint Committee on Taxation responded by forecasting increased revenues of $204 billion in 1990, $299 billion in 1993. 
   Incredibly, the Joint Committee on Taxation failed to recognize or at least assume that people would continue to work and work hard even if every penny of their income was taken away in income taxes. 
   I suggest that that indicates a departure and a divorce from reality that the Joint Committee on Taxation has, and it is for that reason that it is incumbent upon us to introduce measures that are, again, commonsense, straightforward measures that the American people can understand and get behind. 
   I notice that the speaker from Iowa had gone on from talking about taxation to talking about issues dealing with immigration. I will just say that we have had a lot of discussion in this Congress since Congress convened in January about the 9/11 recommendations or the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission from a couple of years ago. 
   To me, the two most important recommendations of the 9/11 Commission that have yet to be enacted, one was quite simply to build stable democracies in Middle East. I think we are doing that. We receive a lot of criticism for doing that, but that is one of the fundamental steps we must take in order to achieve stability worldwide and ultimately gain control in the global war on terror. 
   But the other concept, and it is so simple that it astounds me that it hasn't been taken up yet, and that is simply to secure the border. Both north and south, our American borders are not secure. They need to be secure; we deserve secure borders. The American people deserve secure borders after the ravages of 9/11, and I think that was a sensible recommendation the 9/11 Commission has made. I frankly do not understand why the House leadership has not taken that up with the seriousness it deserves. 
   With that, I want to thank the gentleman from Iowa and the Speaker for his indulgence. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (DR. MICHAEL ELLIS <b>DEBAKEY</b>, FATHER OF CARDIOVASCULAR SURGERY -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor of the House tonight to ask my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 1154. This bill designates a Congressional Gold Medal for the famed Houston heart surgeon, Dr. Michael DeBakey. This legislation has been introduced by my good friend from Texas (Mr. Al Green), but I feel it is incumbent upon me, as one of the physicians of the House of Representatives, to come to the floor and talk about how important this award is for this individual because, truly, Dr. Michael DeBakey changed the face of medicine forever in this country. His motto, as always, was, ``Strive for nothing less than excellence,'' a motto that we might adopt in the House of Representatives today. 
   Dr. DeBakey received his bachelor's and his M.D. degree from Tulane University in New Orleans. While in medical school, Dr. DeBakey invented what became known as the roller pump, later to become a major component in the heart-lung machine used in open-heart surgery. This was a groundbreaking development because previous mechanical pumps had destroyed so many red blood cells in the mechanical action of pumping. The roller pump was truly a visionary change that Dr. DeBakey popularized when he was still in medical school in the 1930s. 
   He completed his internship at Charity Hospital in New Orleans. Charity Hospital, unfortunately, is no longer with us because of the ravages of Hurricane Katrina. Dr. DeBakey completed his residency in surgery at the University of Strasbourg, France and the University of Heidelberg in Germany. 
   He volunteered for service in World War II and subsequently was named director of the Surgical Consultants' Division of the U.S. Surgeon General's Office. His work during that war led that office to the development of the Mobile Army Surgical Hospital, so-called MASH units, those indeed that were popularized by movies and television shows back in the 1970s and were the forerunners of our forward surgical combat teams that have saved so many lives in Iraq and Afghanistan today. 
   He helped establish the specialized medical and surgical center system for treating military personnel returning home from war, subsequently known as the Veterans' Administration Medical Center System. 
   But it was at Methodist Hospital in Houston where Dr. DeBakey performed many of his groundbreaking surgeries, including the first removal of a carotid artery blockage in 1950, the year that I was born; the first coronary artery bypass graft in 1964; the first use of a ventricular assist device to pump blood and support a diseased heart in 1966; and some of the first heart transplants in 1968 and 1969. 
   He developed the self-contained miniaturized left ventricular assist device to pump blood for a diseased heart, something that is in use to this day. The techniques used to miniaturize the device's inner workings were developed with engineers working on the Nation's space program at nearby NASA. 
   He served as an adviser to nearly every United States President for the last 50 years. Think of that, Mr. Speaker: The medical adviser to every United States President for the last 50 years, as well as to heads of state throughout the world. He traveled, famously, to Russia in 1996 to consult on the surgery for Russian President Boris Yeltsin. 
   During his professional surgical career, he performed more than 60,000 cardiovascular procedures and trained thousands of surgeons who practice around the world. His name is affixed to a number of organizations, centers for learning and projects devoted to medical education and health education for the general public. 
   But think of this, Mr. Speaker, Dr. DeBakey also underwent an operation that was named for him. I picked up a copy of the New York Times last December and read a story about how Dr. DeBakey had undergone the surgery that he himself had described many years before. In fact, Dr. DeBakey admitted at that time that, although he knew he was ill, he never called his own doctor, and he never called 911. Quoting here, ``if it becomes intense enough, you're perfectly willing to accept cardiac arrest as a possible way of getting rid of the pain,'' he told the New York Times. A wonderful, pragmatic individual. 
   He helped establish the National Library of Medicine, which is now the world's largest and most prestigious repository for medical archives. 
   Mr. Speaker, as we talk in this Congress about the need for improving the computer technology for medical records and medical information, Dr. DeBakey was on the forefront of that while most of us were still in grammar school. 
   In 1969, he received the highest honor a United States citizen can receive: the Presidential Medal of Freedom with Distinction. In 1976, his students founded Michael E. DeBakey International Surgical Society. 
   His contributions to medicine and his breakthrough surgeries and innovative devices have completely transformed our view of the human body and its longevity on this planet. At age 98, he deserves the highest award that Congress can bestow: the Congressional Gold Medal.  
   I urge my colleagues to join me in cosponsoring H.R. 1154, introduced by Al Green of Texas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - October 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I come to the floor of the House tonight as I frequently do to talk a little bit about health care. 
   Tonight, I will be filling the leadership hour of the minority side, and I  certainly thank the House leadership for providing me the opportunity to speak to the Chamber over this hour and talk a little bit about health care, perhaps give a little bit of historical context, perhaps talk a little bit about our current situation, perhaps talk about the prospects for change in the future, talk about what principles are important to maintain in a health care system, whether it be public or private, the principles of affordability, accountability and advancements. 
   Madam Speaker, I hope to spend part of this hour talking about the things that I think will improve the delivery of health care in this country, regardless of who the payer is, because we are perhaps perched on a historical time. 
   Madam Speaker, I believe with all my heart that we are perched on a transformational time in American medicine, a time that we've seen perhaps similarities with before, perhaps three times in the last century. We'll detail those in just a moment, but it is a time like any other. 
   When the rapidity of the scientific information is coming at such a rate, the rapidity of scientific change is coming at such a rate, and at the same time we're poised to perhaps have a significant impact on the delivery of health care in this country by how we craft our public health policy, our health policy in this body, think about in the preceding century we had three, I believe, transformational times in the 20th century. 
   You think about the status of medicine in the days of the late 1800s leading up to the early 1900s, and it was not always a pretty sight. Blistering, burning, and bleeding were treatments that were not only tolerated; they were, in fact, embraced by the medical mainstream, the best minds in medicine at that time. But those heroic efforts were beginning to be supplanted by people who rigorously applied the scientific method and began to investigate as to whether or not these heroic methods were, in fact, yielding or returning a positive benefit for the patient. In fact, they found that they were not. 
   And at the same time, you had scientists working on concepts such as sterility, sterility during surgery, vaccinations, improvements in public health, sanitational water supplies, as well as just a decade before you had the introduction of anesthesia which, obviously, radically changed the prospects for being able to perform surgery.     
   There was also a crisis of confidence in American medicine, because there was no standardization in American medical schools. They were all over the map as far as their embracing scientific method or scientific philosophy. This body, the United States Congress, in 1910, commissioned a study that was ultimately called the Flexner Report, which detailed the problems inherent in American medical schools and how value to the patient could be improved by standardizing the training and making the training more rigorous and adhering to the scientific process. 
   Well, not quite midway through the century, in the 1940s, we saw, again, a transformational change occurring in American medicine. How did this change come about? Actually, there were some discoveries that preceded the 1940s by a little bit. Sir Alexander Fleming discovered penicillin in 1928. At the time, it was just more or less a laboratory curiosity that the growth of a mold in a Petri dish could inhibit the growth of a bacteria, but it was American ingenuity and American know-how that took this concept and made possible the distillation and production of large amounts of this compound. 
   Prior to the 1940s and prior to the intervention of American know-how, only small amounts of penicillin were available. Again, it was more of a laboratory curiosity than a useful treatment that could be made available to a broad spectrum of patients. 
   With the introduction of new techniques for bringing this medicine to the public, large amounts of medicine were made available, the price plummeted and, as a consequence, we ushered in the new antibiotic age in the early part of the 1940s. It was terribly significant. Many of our soldiers who were wounded during the invasion of Normandy on D-Day had wounds that ultimately would have been much more serious had infection become a problem, but now, because of the availability of penicillin, many of those infections could be treated, life and limb could be saved and spared. It was, indeed, a change that medicine had not previously seen. 
   There was another rather dramatic development during the 1940s, about the same time, Percy Julian, who was an African American scientist who we honored in this body during the last Congress. He didn't discover cortisone. Cortisone had previously been discovered but was only available by a labor-intensive process. You had to get it from the adrenal glands of an ox. 
   Cortisone was very difficult to obtain, very expensive and really wasn't available to treat much in the way of a large number of patients. It was available only as an experimental effort. 
   But Dr. Julian, who had experimented in biochemistry for a number of years and worked extensively with soybeans and soybean products, found a way to make a precursor to cortisone and, in fact, found a way to apply this for the commercial production of cortisone. Suddenly, this medicine, this miracle drug which had been available only in very small supply and terribly expensive, now became generally available to treat patients. 
   So we had the advent of anti-infective agents in the antibiotics and anti-inflammatory agents with cortisone, all of which occurred around the mid-1940s. What else happened in the mid-1940s? Of course, we were a country at war. As a consequence, the workforce in this country was severely contracted. In an effort to keep employees, what employees were available on the job, employers wanted to pay higher and higher wages to keep the employees there and keep them satisfied. 
   But the Federal Government, the President of the United States, President Roosevelt said, we are going to get in trouble with inflation if we are not careful, and put in place a series of wage and price controls to kind of keep the lid on this rapidly expanding sector of the economy. He felt it was justified because of a wartime situation. 
   Well, employers still wanted a way to attract employees, to hold employees, to keep employees, keep them happy, keep them satisfied, keep them healthy and well so they stayed on the assembly lines and stayed in the workforce. They devised a plan to offer health insurance and retirement benefits to employees that were under their employ. 
   Well, it was kind of controversial as to whether or not this would be something that was even available, whether or not it violated the spirit of the wage and price controls that were in place at the time, and, if it was something that could be made available, is this a benefit that would be taxed or not taxed? The Supreme Court in a historic decision in 1944 decided, number one, that this did not violate the spirit of wage and price controls. Just as importantly, they determined that these benefits provided as health insurance benefits and retirement benefits, in fact, were not taxable benefits. Thus, the era of employer-derived health insurance was born. 
   After the war, it continued because it was very popular. People liked that concept. They liked the fact that you, at the time you went to work, you received health insurance; so that was one worry that was lifted off of you that you didn't have to contend with. It changed forever the face of how medicine is practiced in this country, as much, I submit, as the introduction of penicillin and as much as the introduction of large-scale production of cortisone. 
   So we will quickly fast-forward to the 1960s. In the 1960s, again, we were seeing a big transformation in medical care, a big transformation in science, the newer antibiotics were available that could treat more and more diseases, more aggressive diseases. The whole era of chemotherapy began to be ushered in. Antidepressants were available for the first time, as well as antipsychotics, which had a profound effect on the census in psychiatric hospitals. 
   What else happened in the 1960s? Well, a little over 40 years ago, this Congress, at the direction of a fellow Texan, Lyndon Johnson, developed the Medicare and then subsequently the Medicaid programs to provide a social safety net for our seniors. Then, ultimately, with the introduction of the Medicaid program, it provided a social  safety net for people who were too poor to afford health insurance. 
   So there was greater access, greater access for the aged, for people who were disabled, and for people who historically had been not allowed into the medical system because of a poor financial situation. But, the government established for the first time an enormous footprint in the practice of medicine in that for the first time it paid for a significant amount of the practice of medicine. 
   Now, the current situation is that about 50 percent of the health care dollar is derived from the United States Congress, from the Federal Government. The other 50 percent is not all private pay; it's private, commercial insurance as well as people who pay bills out of their pocket, self-pay individuals, and I will actually include the 4.5 million people that own health savings accounts. I would include them in that group as well. 
   Of course, there are people who just simply do not pay the bill; there is bad debt. There is also charitable care that is given by a doctor or a hospital to a patient and no payment is expected. 
   Now, the big question before us is can this hybrid system that has just sort of grown up, can this hybrid system be sustained? The tension that exists within this system, I think, creates a dynamic for continued change and for medicine to continue to evolve and continue to reinvent itself. 
   But, as I said, we are on the brink of a time of transformational change. I believe that in the early part of the 21st century we will see and we have seen changes in medicine as a result of cracking the genetic code. Genomic medicine, which was a phrase that I wouldn't even have been aware of during medical school or residency, now is part of our regular parlance. 
   Diseases that used to be treated only with surgery are now treated with medicines. There are going to be vast changes on the horizon as far as the treatment of disease goes as we begin to understand more about how the human genome affects the course of health and disease, how we can intervene earlier at a lower cost to prevent disease and, quite honestly, extend life over time. 
   But, we are also poised at a time where it looks as if, because of frustrations with the current system, because it doesn't provide all of the coverage that we think it should to every person who we think needs it, we are poised here in this Congress to begin debating an ever greater expansion of the Federal Government's role in health care in this country. 
   It will ultimately be up to us to decide is this a good thing or a bad thing. Since we live in a representative Republic, it will be up to the American people to decide is this something that we want to see more of or less of. They will, of course, register those thoughts with their votes, not only in the 2008 election but in the 2010 election. 
   I would submit to you that it is important that we keep in mind really where the fundamental unit of production is in this vast medical machine that we have in this country. What is the widget that is produced by the vast medical machine? 
   Well, my impression is that it is the interaction that takes place between the doctor and the patient in the treatment room, whether you like to say the operating room or the emergency room, but, nonetheless, it is the interaction between the doctor and the patient. That is the fundamental unit of production in American medicine. How do we interact that? 
   Well, my opinion is anything that will deliver value to that interaction is one of those things that we ought to encourage. Anything that detracts from value or 
   anything that serves to drive apart the doctor-patient interaction is something that may be seen as pernicious. It's all about empowering the patient and not an insurance company, not the Federal Government. We need to focus on those policies that will bring that power back to the patient, will bring that value back to the doctor-patient interaction. 
   A lot of people would argue that we need health care reform. In fact, remember, that was a big argument in 1992 in the Presidential election and in 1993, the year that followed, and then, ultimately, nothing was accomplished and the situation stayed as it is. But they kept talking about health care reform, health care reform, health care reform. 
   Well, reform is what you need if the system is working just jim-dandy, just working extra special well, and you only need some marginal changes around the edges. But since we are upon a time of great scientific advancement, changes in how we handle information technology, changes in how we even approach medicine, the whole era of personalized medicine is just a little bit over the horizon, and we may well see that in my lifetime, certainly in my children's lifetime. 
   Medicine is on the cusp or the threshold of some big changes. Is reform going to be enough to enact the social policies that we need here in Congress as well as permit those transformational changes that are occurring in science and occurring in the delivery of medical care? 
   Now, I would submit that only by keeping a portion of the free enterprise system involved in health care, only by that method are we likely to continue to generate the kind of instability we need in a system in order to foster change, in order to foster growth, in fact, in order to drive that transformational process. 
   If, suddenly, we are at complete equilibrium and there is no tension on the system anymore, what's going to cause it to grow? If, in fact, we devolve to a single-payer system where the Federal Government picks up the entire tab for medical care from cradle to grave, and there are some people who think that would be the correct response, the correct way to go, what will change? What will be the impetus to change? What will be the reason to change anything about medicine? 
   What you see today, if you enact that system, is what you will see 20 years from now, 40 years from now, 60 years from now. The transformational change that I think will be responsible for some of the greatest gifts that medicine could give to humankind, suddenly the spark, the spark of incentive would be removed and we would have a steady state that would be well paid for, a lot of people would be well taken care of, but the improvements, the advancements would be lacking in such a system. 
   If we move toward a system that is more patient driven, rather than one that's driven by insurance companies, rather than one that's driven by governments, I think we will usher in that new era of transformation in American medicine. 
   During the course of that, we have got to keep health care affordable. We have got to keep the monitor on the person in the middle, the person who acts as that barrier between the doctor and the patient, what we describe as a middleman. We have to keep that very close tab on what's happening in that arena. That's one of the things that prevents a patient from knowing the value of care they receive. It's one of the things that prevents a doctor from knowing how much the care they are ordering is going to cost or what burden that patient will have to bear. We have anesthetized everyone by putting a third-party payer in the middle of that mix. 
   Now, questions do come up as to how we bring about those changes and not obstruct changes that we want to see happen, but, again, keep in mind things like the advancements in medicine that are going to occur as a result of discovery of the human genome and further elucidation of the human genome, concepts like rapid learning. When I was in medical school, we all just worshipped at the altar of the double-blind crossover study in order to prove that something was effective or not. 
   But we live in a time when computational speed and capability is so vast, and the speed of learning is so fast, that, you know, it may no longer be as necessary as it once was to select the correct sample size and go out and do all the statistical tests. We can just simply monitor everyone, everyone who is on Lipitor, everyone who is on a statin, see what their complications are, see what their health benefits are that people who are on statin live as long or longer than a closely matched age and gender-matched group of individuals who are on no such therapy. We can begin to develop those concepts, and the data is there and will accumulate rapidly because of advances that are being made in health information technology.     
   That's the way that, ultimately, we're going to be able to curtail some of the costs of taking care of chronic diseases and, in fact, beating chronic diseases; and I would include cancer in that group. And above all, we do have to ensure an adequate workforce to be able to provide that care. 
   Now, I alluded a few minutes ago at the point of transformational change, but we also run the risk of getting caught up in transaction. You know, if you think back to 1993 and the changes in health care that were discussed at the time, we really weren't talking about any kind of health care change. We were talking about change in the administration of insurance policies. 
   As a result, since we got caught up, in this body, in the transactional, we forgot about the transformational. And again, as a result, there really wasn't much happened, except we left the field essentially empty, and HMOs and managed care came in, took over a large market share. And that was the time, at least in my experience as a physician, when some of the worst excesses of HMOs and managed care occurred: care being denied, patients being put out of the hospital too soon. And then Congress was in a very reactive mode: you've got to have this many days after delivery, this many days in the hospital after a mastectomy. 
   Well, that clearly wasn't the way to go about it, but that is the risk that we run if we focus on the transactional and forget the transformational. So all three things, affordability, accountability and advancement, must be considered and must be given equal weight in any change that comes about. 
   Within the concept of affordability, it's really not how much money you spend; it's how you spend it and are you getting value for the dollar that you spend in health care. And I would circle back and bring it back to that interaction between the doctor and the patient in the treatment room. How do we deliver value to that fundamental unit of production of medical care? And if a policy that we propose delivers value, then that is something that really should be looked at and one that should be carefully debated and perhaps enacted into law. 
   But if you look at that fundamental interaction between the doctor and the patient in the treatment room and it is fundamentally deleterious, well, maybe that's something that we should not be doing. We see examples of this within the insurance environment all the time. 
   And I would use the bill that we voted on last week, the State Children's Health Insurance Program. Good things in the bill, but some bad things in the bill. Some of the bad things is we tend to take children off of private health insurance and move them onto the State's Children's Health Insurance Program; and we do that for successive, for families who earn excessively larger and larger incomes. 
   Now, we can argue what the top line was; the top line reported in the bill was $60,000. But on the floor of this House, the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee admitted to me that States could disregard $20,000 income for housing, $10,000 in income for clothing, and $10,000 in income for transportation. We're up to over $100,000 with the income set-asides that some States could develop. 
   Well, what's going to happen to taking all these children off of private health insurance, perhaps coverage that the employer provides their mom and dad and moves them on to an SCHIP policy? Many pediatricians around the country find that the reimbursement for a State Children's Health Insurance policy in their State reimburses at a fundamentally lower rate than the private plans. Even though the private plans aren't great, they're better than the State Children's Health Insurance policy. 
   So what if a pediatrician's earnings or gross bookings for their practice go down by 30 or 40 percent on that segment of patients? Well, if you make that segment of patients successively larger, it's going to be more and more difficult for them to make up that gap; and what they will do is what doctors have always done: they'll open a little earlier, they'll stay open a little later and they'll kind of squeeze a few more patients into every hour. 
   Now, I ask you, is that a way to drive up the value in that doctor-patient interaction? I don't think so. I think if you squeeze more and more patients into that hour, if you increase that doctor's work day so they're having to make decisions on less and less rest with more and more stress, we are ultimately likely to negatively affect the value of that doctor-patient interaction. 
   So certainly that's one aspect of the bill for me that was extremely important for us to fully evaluate; and, unfortunately, we didn't get to evaluate it. We didn't get to debate it. We didn't get to do it in committee. We didn't get really to debate it on the floor. It was kind of an up-or-down vote: take it or leave it. And that's fine if that's the way you want to run things. But for me it was a fundamentally flawed idea because it damaged the value of the doctor-patient interaction. 
   Other programs that may improve the doctor-patient interaction, I'm aware of a large employer in my district back home, school district, to be precise, that has a number of employees under their insurance policy that provides a $20-a-month premium reduction for anyone who undergoes some pretty basic screening, blood pressure, weight and doing a little blood work. So there's a $250 value returned to the enrollee in the health plan over a year's time. So obviously that's a value. It's a value to the insurance company because now they're able to identify perhaps that silent person with a cholesterol up to here or a blood sugar that's an undiagnosed and unmonitored diabetic. 
   They can identify those individuals; and if the individual is desirous of help, they can get them into the proper type of care that will lower the likelihood of a heart attack with the attendant time in the intensive care unit, perhaps coronary artery bypass grafting, perhaps even the risk of sudden death or the complications of untreated diabetes, problems with eyesight, the problems with circulation, leg amputation, all of the kidney disease that goes along with untreated diabetes. Perhaps we can begin to get a handle on this earlier in the course of the disease so that the disease course may be modified and ultimately less costly. 
   Well, I would submit that that insurance company has found a way to deliver value to the doctor-patient interaction; and, in fact, I would think that's behavior that this body would want to encourage, not discourage, amongst private insurance players. 
   But these are just two examples of where value for the doctor-patient interaction can be increased or decreased. And as a consequence, when I apply that test to any health care policy, my decision about that, whether or not to support that health care policy, is likely to be based on the fundamental question, are we delivering value to the doctor-patient interaction? If the answer is yes, that's a program that's worthy of further study, debate, and perhaps enacting. If the answer is no, then it becomes fairly easy for me to say that's not a policy that I would be inclined to support at the present time. 
   Now, one of the things we move on to or other aspects of affordability that we should talk about, I did allude earlier to the fact that there are now, according 
   to recent data that was released last April, 4.5 million people who are covered under health savings accounts. That's up about a million and a half from the year before. And, certainly, while it is not a vast segment of coverage, the reality is we could cover a great deal more people who are uninsured if they just simply knew about these products. 
   In the mid-1990s when I went to look for an insurance policy for an adult child, it was just almost impossible to get a private individually owned insurance policy for someone in their mid-20s. No one wanted to talk to you about one single policy. We won't even discuss it unless you've got a group of five or 10, and then we're going to charge you a great deal for that. Now, I was ultimately able to get insurance for that individual. 
   But what a change 10 years later. Any individual getting out of college today, mid-20s, off their parents insurance for the first time in their life, maybe they want to go start a business. Maybe they haven't quite found that right job yet; but rather than going without health insurance, they now have an option. They can go to the  Internet and in the search engine of choice type in health savings account and very quickly they'll be taken to sites that will provide them a vast array of choices in high deductible insurance policies. These policies are typically paid for with after-tax dollars, which is a limitation, I admit, and one that this Congress should take up and deal with. But oftentimes we're talking about individuals who are not in the higher income earning brackets or perhaps pay no Federal income tax at all. So the fact that it's not a tax deductible expense is not of great import to them. 
   But the fact that you can get a high deductible insurance policy that, with a $2,000 to $5,000 deductible that ranges in price from about $55 a month to $75 a month, well, that's a pretty significant savings over what we typically associate with the cost of insurance, which is obviously much greater than that. 
   So that young individual who's just starting out doesn't need to start out life without insurance coverage. It's not something that they need to forego. Yeah, it's a high deductible policy, so guess what? If you go in for a flu shot or you go in for some relatively minor difficulty likely as not that's going to be something that will have to be borne by the individual. 
   But if that individual has a catastrophic event, a motorcycle accident, an accident or pregnancy and requires prolonged hospitalization, that hospitalization is covered after the deductible is met. And how powerful is that to be able to put that type of protection in the hands of a whole segment of society that 10 years ago had no choice at all, no option. You just simply cannot buy or find insurance no matter how big a check you're willing to write, because I was willing to write a big check to get insurance coverage at that time, but it just wasn't available. Ten years later it's readily available. It's up on the Internet. And because of competition on the Internet, we've driven the price down, so affordability obviously has improved. 
   Now, the other great things about a health savings account is you can put money away. If you do pay taxes, you can put away money with pre-tax dollars, put money into essentially a medical IRA, or a health savings accounts. You can actually begin to accumulate dollars in that health savings account. And the good news is that over time, if that money is not used for medical expenses, it can only be used for medical expenses, but if it's not used, it doesn't go back to someone else at the end of the year. It doesn't even go back to the Federal Government if you die too soon. That money is yours. It is yours to use for your health expenses, or it is then delivered on to your heirs and assigns if you meet an untimely demise, but that money is yours. It doesn't belong to the Federal Government. The money you put into that health savings account stays under your command and control for the rest of your life as long as it is spent for health care expenses. 
   So you can see, even a young individual who doesn't have the financial wherewithal to contribute the full amount, say the $2,000 or the $5,000 every month to a health savings account, still can put some number of dollars away that will grow over time. And since we're talking about young individuals, well, the time value of money comes into play. And if you begin such an account when you're 25, by the time you're 65 and ready to face retirement, there may be a significant accumulation of dollars in that account. And the good news is there is no one can take that away from you. 
   Now another thing that we've worked on in this Congress and something that I would argue would be a positive in the values section for delivering value to the doctor-patient interaction are what are called association health plans. Now, association health plans by themselves are not going to drive down the cost of the, or the number of the, uninsured; but they will help control the ever-rising cost of health insurance which, of course, is what drives a lot of small businesses out of the business of providing health insurance. So association health plans have been voted on in the two previous Congresses several times since I arrived here in the beginning of 2003. 
   And the concept is pretty simple. It just says small businesses can kind of group together to get the purchasing power, the purchasing clout of a much larger organization and use that ability to aggregate themselves to get a better deal with an insurance company, to get a better deal in providing insurance to their employees. So if you have, say, a group of Realtors, a group of dentists offices, for example, a group of chambers of commerce employees, you can put this group together as long as they have similar business models. That's why the term ``association'' is used. They can be put together to go out and purchase or to make bids on the commercial insurance market and, again, get a little bit more of that purchasing clout that large organizations have. 
   And one of the reasons that association health plans have been contentious in this House is because for them to be effective, particularly in medium and small-sized States, you've got to have the ability to go and take in a group of people that may cross a State line. Now, a State as big as Texas, which at one time was its own country, that's not as big an issue. But still you will get a better economy of scale if you are able to draw in more people into this association that then goes out and buys insurance. 
   For whatever reason, we passed it in the House, three or four times in the last 4 years, but unfortunately it never did pass in the Senate. They had Senator Enzi, who was at the time chairman of the Senate Health Committee, make a good run at it last year, got all the principals in the room and tried to get them to craft an agreement on that, but ultimately was not able to get that done. And that's a shame, that's too bad because again this is one of those things that would fundamentally deliver value to the doctor-patient interaction because it would hold down the cost, the ever-increasing cost, bend that growth curve a little bit on the increasing cost, the ever-increasing cost of health insurance, and allow more people to keep and retain their insurance coverage. 
   Now, the President brought up in his State of the Union message here last January, and it's been talked about on and off again over the past six to eight months, the issue of equal tax treatment for employer-derived insurance and insurance that's owned by the individual. We've really not made any great progress, but I do believe the concept is one that's worthy of study, that's worthy of debate in this House. I already alluded to that fact a little earlier in the talk that once you have the employer-derived insurance as a pre-tax expense, that alters the playing field and it, in fact, encourages the use of that type of insurance and maybe even encourages the use of that type of insurance a little too much.     
   It encourages people to be overinsured because, look, I can't really pay you any more without distorting my salary structure but I will give you this more generous insurance package. And as a consequence, more insurance benefits are added to that person's benefits package, and it may, in fact, be more insurance than they actually need. So they are paying for something that they don't actually need. 
   On the other end of the spectrum, you have the individual who is out there pricing insurance now in the private market, and perhaps they do earn enough money to pay income taxes, and it would be great to extend or expand their purchasing power for that insurance by allowing them to pay for that with pretax dollars. 
   There is going to be a lot of debate on that over the next several years, I expect. In my mind, it is the only sane and smart way to go to, again, decouple the insurance product from the tax code and kind of put everybody on an equal footing. It's either deductible for everyone or not deductible for everyone. But let's put everyone on the same playing field there because only in that way will we get true equity and only in that way will we get the demand for the type of products that, again, ultimately will have the competitive forces that will push the price down. And after all, the kind of competition that is available on the Internet, the same type of competition that's available now with health savings accounts, and since they are after-tax items anyway, they are not under the same restrictions, but to get that same type of  competitive influence from pricing on the Internet that will help keep the cost of health care coverage more affordable for more people. It's kind of analogous to the people who sell car insurance and who say 15 minutes can save you big bucks on your car insurance if you are willing to invest 15 minutes on a telephone call to a particular insurance company. They have done a lot of clever things with their advertising with animated lizards and unfrozen cavemen and the like, but the reality is they have taken the concept of the type of competitive edge you can get by utilization of the Internet with car insurance. If we had the same ability to do that with health insurance, how much better would that be? Because we could drive the price down, because now people would be competing with large volumes, large numbers of patients. Now companies would be competing with large numbers of patients, and, in fact, I think we would see an improvement on the price structure rather than this continued year-after-year increase in prices and this continued year-after-year of picking only the people that we want to insure and leaving others out. This is a way of broadening the base and lowering the rate. We liked that concept in our tax policy; we should like that concept in our insurance policies as well. 
   Madam Speaker, mandates are another issue that will come up from time to time. The health care program that was popularized in the State of Massachusetts, very famously, depends upon an individual mandate. It is your obligation and responsibility to have insurance, and you will have insurance or we will buy it for you and charge you for it. If you don't want to pay us, we will take that money out of your State income tax refund that you are due at the first of the year. So that is one way to get people to buy insurance, to be sure. 
   Now, in 1993, when the Clinton health care plan was discussed, they talked about employer mandates: We're going to require every employer to participate in an employer-derived health insurance program or they are going to have to pay a large amount in order for their employees to get coverage elsewhere. 
   So employer mandates and individual mandates are certainly techniques that have been tried in the past, and we may see them tried again in the future. 
   State mandates are where a State says any insurance policy that is written in the State, you have to provide coverage for these items. It varies from State to State. Some States are quite generous, and as a consequence, their insurance rates are high. Some States are more spartan, and as a consequence, their insurance rates are more reasonable. But State mandates, individual mandates, employer mandates, in my opinion, have the ability of driving up the cost and limiting the care because they remove the competitive influences that otherwise would be brought by the competition that's available in the open market and just keeping free enterprise involved in medicine. 
   I guess the counterpart to mandates, for all its faults and for all of the sort of anguished discussion that we had about Medicare part D over the past several years, Medicare part D now provides pharmaceutical benefits, pharmaceutical coverage to 90 percent of the Nation's seniors, and it does so with a 90 percent satisfaction rate. And there is not a mandate in the program. And how do they do it? They provided programs that people actually wanted. That would be a novel approach. Instead of a mandate, you make something that is marketable. You make something that's desirable. You make something that patients and families are going to say that's a good idea and it's reasonably priced and I am going to do that. Mandates, on the other hand, tend to drive things in the other direction. And ultimately, although there may be a transient reduction in price long term, it has a negative influence on price and causes prices to inflate and increase over time. 
   Madam Speaker, I can hardly come to the floor of the House and talk about changes in our health care system without at least briefly talking about changes in the way the medical justice system is handled in this country. And the reason that it is so important to me is my State, my home State of Texas, changed the nature of the argument 4 years ago and since then has been reaping the benefits of fundamental and sound medical liability reform. 
   Now, the Texas legislation that passed in the legislature that convened in 2003, and subsequently we had to undergo a constitutional amendment in September of 2003, it provided a cap on noneconomic damages. The so-called Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1974, as passed by the State of California, was adopted and modernized in the Texas plan. But it was a Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act-style reform that was done in my home State of Texas. 
   Now, caps on noneconomic damages out in California in 1975 were set at $250,000. In Texas, with the passage of this legislation, there was a cap set at $250,000 for a physician if the physician was involved; $250,000 set for the hospital if a hospital was involved; and $250,000 for a second hospital or a nursing home if one was involved. So there was an aggregate cap of $750,000. At the same time, there was no cap placed on actual damages, real damages, that were sustained in a medical liability suit and no cap placed on punitive damages if those were awarded by a judge in a medical liability suit. 
   The result of all of this was that a State that was in turmoil, a State that was in chaos in the year 2002, today is eminently stable when you talk about its medical justice system because of these commonsense reforms that were enacted back in 2003. The benefits that we have seen for my old insurer of record, Texas Medical Liability Trust, my medical liability premiums had been increasing by double digits every year, year after year for about the 4 years before I concluded my practice and came to Congress. The very next year after the passage of this bill in 2003, prices dropped. They dropped 12 
   percent. They have continued to drop. So the aggregate reduction in premium prices over the 4 years since this passed has been 22 percent for physicians insured under the Texas Medical Liability Trust. And that is in addition to double-digit increases that were happening every year up to 2003. Now we have had a 22 percent reduction. That's a significant change. 
   One of the most important things, though, was the number of medical liability insurers that existed in the State of Texas had gone from 17 down to two. You are not going to get much in the way of a competitive edge if you have only got two people willing to write medical liability insurance in your State. So by the start of 2003, we were truly in crisis with the fleeing of medical liability insurers from our State. 
   What happened after the law passed? The insurers started to come back in. Now, many of them wanted to come back in and say, we're going to have to charge you more money because Texas is still an unproven deal and we're not sure we want to come in at the rates you are going to set. But Commissioner Montemayor, who was then the Commissioner of Insurance in the State of Texas said, if you are going to come back in, you're going to come back in at reasonable rates. And as a consequence today, I'm not sure of the top number of Texas insurance companies, but certainly above 15 and may well be above 20 insurance companies that have come back to the State, and, most importantly, they have come back without an increase in their rates. 
   One of the unintended beneficiaries of this reform was the smaller not-for-profit hospital in the State of Texas. Smaller and medium-sized hospitals, self-insured, they had to put a lot of money away against a possible bad outcome in a court. With the passage of this law and with some return of sensibility and stability to what their actual outlay may be if they lost a case, smaller hospitals and medium-sized hospitals were able to take some of that money that they had put away in accounts to guard against a possible adverse finding in court, and now they were able to take that money and use it for capital expansion, nurses' salaries, the kinds of things you want your smaller not-for-profit hospital to be doing in your small and medium-sized community. 
   So it was a very big boon not only to physicians but also to hospitals. And, again, I would submit is that a win or a loss for someone who wants to deliver value to the fundamental doctor-patient interaction in the treatment  room? Obviously, it's a win. We have more doctors coming to the State. We have so many doctors coming to the State, the Texas State Board of Medical Examiners can't keep up with the pressure, with the demand on new licenses for doctors who want to get licensed to practice in Texas. So that is a good thing. Texas as a whole has been underprovidered, if ``providered'' can be used as a verb. Texas as a whole has been underprovidered for some time. The national average is 260 doctors per 100,000 population. Texas sits at about 186. But the situation is improving month over month because of some of the commonsense changes we made in medical liability insurance. 
   And one last thing I would add. If I'm from Texas and we've already done this, what do I care about the rest of the country that their medical justice system perhaps remains with the scales uneven and tipped to one side or the other? Well, the reason I care is because now, as a Member of Congress, we have to deal with the Federal budget every year. We have to decide how much money we are going to give Medicare and Medicaid every year. Consider this: A study done back in 1996 at Stanford University looking at the cost to the Medicare system for treatment of heart disease, the additional cost for the treatment of heart disease when factoring in the cost for defensive medicine, back in 1996, that cost was calculated to be just under $30 billion. Well, that was 12 years ago. I rather suspect that number would be higher today if anyone went back in and recalculated those figures. So it is significant. That is practically 10 percent of the money we budget every year, the money we appropriate every year to pay for the Medicare system. It is a significant savings to the Medicare system if, in fact, we can capture these savings. 
   Just the Texas bill alone introduced in the House of Representatives was scored by the Congressional Budget Office as saving $3.8 billion over 5 years just with the language of the Texas bill, to say nothing of what it would do on putting negative pressure, downward pressure on the cost of defensive medicine. And $3.8 billion is not a big figure when we talk about money up here in Congress. It's usually tens or hundreds of billions of dollars. But I have got to tell you what, $3.8 billion is real money, and in a year where we are scratching around trying to find every dollar that we can, that $3.8 billion is significant. And, again, I, frankly, do not understand why the House wouldn't consider taking this up, because this is a commonsense solution to a problem that vexes many States around the country. 
   And perhaps one of the even more pernicious effects of the medical liability crises in some States is the fact that it directs the best and brightest of our young people in a career path other than medicine. If I am going to spend all that time in school, if I'm going to accumulate all that student debt, and then when I get out, I have got to pay these high liability premiums and you go to court and they make you look like a bad guy, I don't think I want any part of it. It does have a negative effect on attracting the best and brightest into our physician workforce. 
   The physician workforce is important. I want to talk about that in greater detail. But just consider this: A residency program director out of one of the big hospitals up in New York a few years ago, when I asked her, ``Does the medical liability crisis impact your residency training program at all?'' she told me that, well, currently we are taking people into our residency program that we wouldn't have interviewed 5 years ago.     
   In other words, the pool of available applicants for their residency program had contracted because of the chilling effect, the negative effect of the medical liability insurance in that State. And these are our children's doctors; these are our children's children's doctors. I fail to see how the advancement of medical care is furthered by allowing policies that have that type of an effect on our physician workforce. 
   But let's talk a little bit about the physician workforce in the time that remains because this is another important part of where we go with health care reform, health care transformation in this country. And three bills that have recently been introduced, H.R. 2583, H.R. 2584 and H.R. 2585, deal with the problems surrounding the physician workforce. 
   Now, just a little bit less than 2 years ago, Alan Greenspan, as one of his last trips around the Capitol, came and talked to a group of us one morning. And a question was posed to him: What do you think about Medicare? Are we ever going to be able to pay for the unfunded liability of Medicare in the future? And he stopped and thought for a moment and said, Yes. I think when the time comes Congress will make the hard choices, make the hard decisions, and, indeed, we will be able to salvage and pay for the Medicare system. And he paused for a moment and then went on to say, But what concerns me more is, will there be anyone there to deliver the services when you require them? 
   And that, Madam Speaker, is a crucial point in this discussion. And that is the point behind the three bills that were introduced earlier this year to create incentives for hospitals to provide residency programs, to create incentives for medical students to go into medicine in the first place and, finally, to encourage physicians who are more mature in their practice to stay in their practice. 
   Creating more residency programs. There are some hospitals in the country that would welcome a residency program. They have the patient load. They could get the accreditation from the American Council of Graduate Medical Education, but the barrier for entry is just simply too high, the cost of starting a residency program is too high. 
   So this bill would provide loans to hospitals to begin residency programs where none have existed in the past, particularly in fields in high-need medical specialties in medically underserved areas, things like general surgery; things like family practice; things like obstetrics and gynecology. This would be the subset of residency programs that would be encouraged with this legislation. 
   And, as a consequence, since it is a loan program, the money would be paid back and over time would recirculate so more and more programs could be added to the Nation's training programs, particularly, again, for high-need primary care specialties in medically underserved areas. 
   H.R. 2584 dealt more with the younger individual who is either in medical school or perhaps thinking about a profession in health care. And this bill would provide incentives, it would provide scholarships, it would provide loan forgiveness, it would provide tax relief for individuals who, at the time of their conferring of their degrees and the beginning of their practice, would agree to practice in areas that are medically underserved and, again, in high-need specialties. 
   Now, this concept is actually an older concept. It was around when I was in medical school, but we need to modernize it for the 21st century. 
   And what really brought it home for me was visiting the gulf coast area after Hurricane Katrina. So many doctors had left, and so many more doctors were contemplating leaving. How in the world are they ever going to maintain a health care workforce in that part of the country unless they grow their own doctors in place? This is a way to allow that to happen, and of course there are other medically underserved areas around the country that might benefit from this as well. 
   Again, back in my home State of Texas, the Texas Medical Association puts out a periodical called ``Texas Medicine.'' This was the cover of their March issue, which raised the specter or the question: ``Running Out of Doctors.'' And these two bills were largely inspired by the work done in this article. 
   And one of the concepts that was put forward in this article was that medical residents tend to stay where they train; they don't go very far. The fruit doesn't fall very far from the tree. So a medical resident who trains in a town is likely to set up practice within 50 or 100 miles of that town. That is the concept behind setting up these residencies in smaller and medium-sized communities, smaller hospitals that have the need and have the patient load that will allow for the training and teaching and allow those physicians to stay in that practice area. 
   Well, you might ask, how does this deliver value to that doctor-patient  interaction that I've talked about several times tonight? Well, there are several ways. Number one, in just having the availability and the access of a physician. You can't deliver value to the doctor-patient interaction if you don't have a doctor there to interact with the patient. So that is certainly one very fundamental way that it can improve it. But another way, and perhaps a less tangible way, is if a doctor goes into practice within 50 miles of where they did their training, what do they know about that place? Well, they know the community. Their family, their wives and their children are probably going to be more comfortable in that community, so there is increased job satisfaction that the doctor will have in that community. I'm sorry, I should have said wives or husbands would have in that community. So there is increased personal satisfaction. 
   But the other thing is, you know the doctors in the area, you know who's good and you know who's not so good. Referral patterns that are established during a 3- or 4-year residency can be continued. And this is the additional value that this type of training will bring to our young physicians in the State and allow them to be better physicians when the time comes for them to begin their practice. 
   The final bill, 2585, deals with a problem that we've had in this Congress for as long as I've been here, in fact, before I got here, and that is the problem that we have with reimbursing physicians in the Medicare system. The current Medicare system of pricing is one that is not based on any sort of reality. Hospitals, drug companies, HMOs each get sort of a cost-of-living adjustment every year for their funding sources; but physicians, for whatever reason, don't get that cost-of-living adjustment. They don't get what's called the Medical Economic Index. What they get is called the Sustainable Growth Rate Formula, which generally pushes their reimbursement rates down year over year. And over the next 10 years time, the budgetary projection is for physician payment rates for Medicare patients to be reduced on the order of 30-38 percent. Well, that's untenable. No doctor can continue to practice; they can't even plan for their practice. They can't plan for hiring; they can't plan for the purchase of new equipment all of the time they're laboring under that type of restriction. 
   2585 would repeal the Sustainable Growth Rate Formula in 2 years' time. It resets the baseline for 2008 and 2009, which does allow for a positive update for physicians in 2008 and 2009, with no smoke and mirrors, no fancy footwork. It is just something that could be done. 
   And then we aggregate all of the savings that accrue to the Medicare system because we are doing things better, cheaper, and faster in the Medicare system currently. As a consequence, that savings can be used to offset what is described as the cost of repealing the Sustainable Growth Rate Formula over 10 years' time. 
   Consider this, the Medicare Trustees Report from last June said that the bad news is Medicare is still going broke, but the good news is it's going to go broke a year later than we told you last year. The reason for that is 600,000 hospital beds were not filled last year because doctors are doing things better in their practices, they are keeping patients out of the hospital, they are doing procedures in an ambulatory surgery center; and as a consequence, the overall cost price pressure on the Medicare system has reduced. The problem is that doctors don't get to have any credit for that reduction. It all goes to the hospitals, drug companies, nursing homes and HMOs, not to the part B of Medicare, which is, after all, where physicians are paid. 
   We need to change this. We need to make those savings only attributable to part B. And as a consequence, we can drive down the cost of repealing the Sustainable Growth Rate Formula. And by postponing that repeal for 2 years' time, but at the same time providing a positive update for 2008 and 2009, I believe we have a system in place that can be a win-win for Congress, for doctors, and for the American patient, the Medicare patient, who has increased difficulty with finding a Medicare physician. 
   Two other proposals in that bill, 2585, would be to provide positive updates for doctors who voluntarily improve information technology in their offices. We all know this is something that is going to have to happen. This is something that is going to have to occur. Let's give a little bit of a positive update, a little bit of a positive bonus. Yes, patients who aren't in the Medicare system will also benefit from that, but we're not getting a tremendous amount, about a 3 percent bonus per year for voluntary improvements in health information technology. 
   Let's also make available for physicians who voluntarily report quality measures, let's also make a positive update available for them as well. And the consequences of that is people will begin to focus on the quality aspect if you just simply make a physician aware of what their expenditures in the Medicare system were for the past year. That information is confidential. It's not something that's published; other people aren't aware of it. But doctors tend to be relatively competitive, and if they have that number available to them, they are likely to behave in a way that will try to drive that number down. Doctors are goal-directed, doctors are competitive, doctors want to be the best at what they are. Well, let's give them the data and see if they can't compete on that level. 
   The other thing is I think we need to make that information available to the patient as well: What did it cost the patient to provide for the treatment over the cycle of care for the past year? And, again, these are less defined, but equally important, ways we can begin to deliver value to that doctor-patient interaction. 
   The health information technology is so important. Many doctors are sitting on the sidelines right now. It's like buying a VCR in the mid-1980s: Do you go with Beta or VHS? And it's hard to know what the technology is going to look like in 5 years; and the person who guesses right will be rewarded, the person who guesses wrong will be penalized. 
   So there is a lot of tension, a lot of nervousness out there when you talk to physicians' offices. And there is no question about it, these things add a lot of time to the doctor's day, time that is not readily compensated in any other formula. So we need to consider adding that positive update, such as was done in H.R. 2585. 
   Well, Madam Speaker, we cannot rise to the transformational change required in this country without keeping the best doctors involved and without incentivizing and training the best doctors for tomorrow. This is going to require a near-term, a mid-term and a far-term, a long-term strategy. We will not be able to master the transformational changes and challenges without America's best and brightest still involved in the teaching and in the practice of medicine. 
   This is a bipartisan issue. It doesn't affect only one side of the aisle. It doesn't only affect the other side of the aisle. It requires each of us to work together. 
   Madam Speaker, I will submit our congressional approval ratings right now are at historic lows; and the reason they're at historic lows is not for the reason that most people think up here. The reason they're at historic lows is because we won't work together to get a single thing done for the American people, and this is one of those things that they want done. 
   Now, I left my beloved profession a little over 4 years ago to come and serve here in Congress. I didn't come to just sit and watch as things happened and things were brought to us by other people. I came to be actively involved in the process, and I intend to remain involved in the process. 
   I have outlined numerous solutions here tonight. I am grateful to the leadership on my side for giving me the opportunity to talk about these things and would only submit that there is a great deal more to discuss, and there will be more to come later. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, this is energy morning here on the House floor, and I'm no different from anyone else. 
   We're hearing a lot this morning about opening the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Well, if we're willing to say supply matters--and I'll agree with that, yes, supply does matter--opening the Strategic Petroleum Reserve only make sense if it's part of a comprehensive plan, and yes, this is an emergency. This is an emergency that requires all hands on deck. 
   Supply is critical. Access to new supply in the Outer Continental Shelf in the Gulf of Mexico is critical, as are alternative sources of energy, as are conservation measures. 
   Today, this morning, I'm asking the majority party to work with us and help the people who are impacted most by the rising energy prices, the people who can least afford it. That includes the vulnerable, the elderly, the impoverished. 
   It's time to stop pandering to wealthy environmentalists and start addressing the problems caused by impeding domestic production of energy. Stop protesting the siting of transmission lines for wind, solar, and hydroelectric power. Allow the rigs and pipelines to function, and allow the American workforce and American ingenuity to go to work and get this done for America. 
   Please stop the restrictions for responsible exploration for our natural resources like coal, natural gas, and crude oil. End the heavy-handed restrictions on energy exploration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (AWARDING A CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL TO MICHAEL ELLIS <em>DeBAKEY</em>, M.D. -- (House of Representatives - September 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I want to come to the floor of the House today to talk and honor the legacy that is that of Dr. Michael DeBakey, the father of cardiovascular surgery, and to encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote in favor of H.R. 1154, the bill to designate a Congressional Gold Medal for the famed Houston heart surgeon. 
   This bill was introduced by my good friend from Texas, Representative Al Green. And Mr. Speaker, we've heard in great detail the number of accomplishments of this singular individual. But, Mr. Speaker, I felt it was incumbent upon me, as one of the very few physicians in the House of Representatives, to come to the floor and talk just a little bit about how Dr. DeBakey forever changed the face of the practice of medicine in this country. 
   As a fellow physician, Dr. DeBakey's work and medical advancements are indeed legendary. His dedication to healing those around him came not only from his talent as a physician, but his ongoing commitment to medical education, the larger medical community, and indeed, the entire profession, the practice of medicine. 
   His motto, as always, was ``Strive for nothing less than excellence.'' This motto should be adopted by every one of us in this House and indeed across the country. 
   His education and his entrepreneurial spirit made him worthy of the Nation's highest expression of appreciation for distinguished achievements and contributions. 
   Dr. DeBakey received his bachelor's and M.D. degree from Tulane University down in New Orleans. While in medical school, Dr. DeBakey invented what became known as the roller pump, later to become a major component in the heart-lung machine used in open heart surgery. Think of that, Mr. Speaker. He was in medical school. He was not yet an M.D. and he devised a revolutionary concept for the engineering of a pump that dealt with a roller mechanism, as opposed to the piston mechanism that resulted in the destruction of red blood cells by the very mechanism that was intended to pump those red blood cells. He had an unusual knack for looking at things in a new light and developing new ideas. 
   He completed his internship at Charity Hospital in New Orleans. Charity Hospital. Think of that, Mr. Speaker. One of the venerable institutions of medical education in this country; an institution that was unfortunately lost to us just two short years ago to the ravages of Hurricane Katrina. Charity Hospital has turned out a number of medical icons of my generation and the generation before, now lost to us forever. 
   But it was Dr. DeBakey at his residency in surgery or doing his internship at Charity Hospital to then go on to his residency in surgery at the University of Strasbourg, France and the University of Heidelberg in Germany. 
   He volunteered for service in World War II and was subsequently named director of the surgical consultants division of the United States Surgeon General's Office. His work during that war led that office to the development of the mobile army surgical hospital, which we now know as a MASH unit. These units were the forerunners of our forward surgical combat teams that have saved so many lives in the present conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Previous conflicts in Korea and Vietnam certainly benefited from the mobile army surgical hospitals, but those forward surgical teams, to be able to deliver the type of care in the battlefield that those critically injured patients need, many of us have traveled to Iraq and seen those hospitals at Ballad and Imbue Sinai in Baghdad, the Baghdad ER. And it's the principles put forward by Dr. DeBakey that are at work at this hour in those centers where our men and women are fighting today. 
   He helped establish the specialized medical and surgical center system for treating military personnel returning home from war, subsequently known as the Veterans Administration medical center system. 
   But it was at Methodist Hospital in Houston in the Texas Medical Center represented so capably by my friends from Texas Mr. Culberson and Mr. Green where Dr. DeBakey performed many of his groundbreaking surgeries, including the first removal of a carotid artery blockage. Mr. Speaker, the year was 1950. That's the year I was born. The first coronary artery bypass graft in 1964, the first use of a ventricular assist device to pump blood and to support a failing heart in 1966, and then some of the first heart transplants performed in this country in 1968 and '69. 
   He developed a self-contained miniaturized left ventricular assist device pump, again, to assist the diseased left ventricle and allow it an opportunity to either heal, get the patient to surgery, or perhaps provide stabilization leading up to a transplant. This is something that is in use today, and indeed I saw it used on one of my family members a number of years ago. 
   The techniques used to miniaturize the device's inner workings were developed with engineers working with engineers right next door at the nearby NASA program. 
   He served as an advisor to nearly every United States President for the last 50 years. He traveled, in 1966 very famously to Russia to consult on the surgery for Russian President Boris Yeltsin. And knowing Dr. DeBakey, I have to suspect he did a good deal more than consult on that surgery. 
   During his professional surgical career, he performed more than 60,000 cardiovascular procedures, trained thousands of surgeons who practice around the world. His name is affixed to a number of organizations, centers for learning, and projects devoted to medical education and health education for the general public. 
   But think of this, Mr. Speaker. Dr. DeBakey also underwent an operation that was named for him. Reading in the New York Times on the way up here to Washington last December, I read a story about how Dr. DeBakey had undergone the surgery that he himself had described many years before. In fact, Dr. DeBakey admitted at the time, although he knew he was quite ill, he never called his own doctor and he never called 911. 
   Now, I'm quoting here. He said, ``if it becomes intense enough, you're perfectly willing to accept cardiac arrest as a possible way of getting rid of the pain.'' That's what he told the New York Times. You just have to marvel at the pragmatism of that individual. 
   As previously noted by the other two speakers, he did help establish the National Library of Medicine, which is now the world's largest and most prestigious repository for medical archives. Indeed, I will probably use the medline in the National Library of Medicine this evening as I prepare for hearings on the Energy and Commerce Committee tomorrow. 
   Mr. Speaker, as we talk in Congress about the need for improving the practice of medicine, Dr. DeBakey was on the forefront of that, while most of us in this body hadn't even started school yet. In fact, many in this body were not even born yet. 
   These accomplishments have been honored before. In 1969, he received the highest honor a United States citizen can receive, the Presidential Medal of Freedom with Distinction. In 1976, his students founded the Michael E. DeBakey International Surgical Society. 
   His contributions to medicine and his breakthrough surgeries and innovative devices have completely transformed our view of the human body and of our longevity and, indeed, of the planet.     
   He has been designated a living legend by the Library of Congress, and today we take another opportunity to honor a full and important life by conferring on Dr. DeBakey the Congressional Gold Medal. 
   I want to thank my colleagues who joined me in cosponsoring H.R. 1154, introduced by Congressman Green and cosponsored by Congressman Culberson.  
   Mr. Speaker, imagine a simple country doctor from Louisville, Texas. I got to sit on the phone last Friday with Al Green and sing Happy Birthday to Dr. DeBakey on his 99th birthday. What an honor for me, what an honor for America to be able to afford this individual the rightful accolades that he so richly deserves. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. BURGESS. (UNT WINS TO EARN FIRST NCAA BID SINCE 1988 -- (House of Representatives - March 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, my college, the University of North Texas, back in my district, on Tuesday night won the Sun Belt Conference. 
   Calvin Watson, a forward, scored 24 points and hit six of seven 3-point shots against Arkansas State University and was named the tournament's most outstanding player. 
   The University of North Texas was locked in a tight game but made all the key plays down the stretch to pull out an 83-75 win at the Cajundome to claim not only the Sun Belt title but an NCAA tournament bid as well. 
   The University of North Texas, my college men's basketball team, last went to the NCAA tournament when Reagan was President during the 1987-1988 season. 
   The Mean Green claimed its second NCAA bid by closing the game on an 11-5 run to set off a wild celebration. My team is under the leadership of head coach Johnny Jones. They were the No. 5 seed in the tournament and had to win all of their games to win the tournament title. They came up with standout performance throughout the tournament and in the finals. 
   I congratulate the fine men of the men's basketball team, their coaches and the staff of the University of North Texas on a great win. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
