<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (AMERICAN ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the honor to be recognized on the floor of the United States Congress. I also appreciate the presentation that has been delivered by the gentleman from Ohio and from the gentlelady of Minnesota, and I appreciate being able to listen to the presentation, knowing that they have been to ANWR just recently, within the past week or so, and have seen some of the things that I had seen there several years ago. What they see today is much of what I saw then. 
   It's interesting that they flew across that coastal plain for 2 hours with everybody on the plane looking and looking for wildlife, and they didn't see any. I remember I did see some. I saw four musk oxen. I remember the pilots actually spotted them, and they announced back to the plane that they had seen four musk oxen, and they were quite excited that they had seen wildlife in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. This was the airplane crew who had flown that coastal plain over and over again. I was surprised at that excitement. 
   I wouldn't have gotten that excited if I'd have looked down and had seen a deer. I might have if I'd seen a buffalo but not a deer. 
   In any case, it's quite a thing to see that the people who had made the trip to ANWR saw the things that I saw, confirmed the things that I confirmed, gave speeches here on the floor of Congress tonight, and then let the rest of the world know that the things that I've been saying have been true all along, right down to ``there are no trees up there, Mr. Speaker, not a single tree.'' 
   I recall giving a speech at the Iowa State Fair where I made that statement. The allegation was made in a very impolite way that that wasn't true. So the newspaper that Iowa depends upon decided they would go find a contrary view from mine when I said there were no trees in ANWR. They found a botanist--I believe he was at Iowa State University--who must have gone through and searched the Internet and found out that there is, at least allegedly, a tiny, little weed up there that grows about 10- to 12-feet high at the most, and it's technically a tree. There's not enough wood in that to make a toothpick, but it's technically a tree. 
   So, if they found a botanist who said there was a tree in ANWR--and supposedly that's a rebuttal--I'd just say: Who has seen one? I don't think anybody has seen one up there. We know that the Arctic Circle is the line north of which trees cannot grow. This is the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, a frozen tundra coastal plain. When it has had any disturbance on the tundra, it has not been from the oil pipeline, and it has not been from the drillers in a significant way, but it happens sometimes when Native Americans get to moving around up there. They tell me they just drag it smooth, and in 5 to 6 years, the tundra has all grown back where it was. I've seen it. I know what it looks like. What my eyes see confirms for my head and for my heart. 
   So I think this point has been made very clear. I don't know how a thinking, living, breathing American could listen to the dialogue that took place here in the last hour and conclude that we shouldn't drill in ANWR. It is an ideal place for there to be oil. It's an ideal place for us to extract oil, and we have the transmission system up there. I think we'd have to add another 74-mile pipeline. 
   There is something on which I might have a little bit of a marginal--not disagreement, but I'd just say here is the little way I see it differently from Mrs. Bachmann's statement, which is that, in 3 years, we'd have oil coming out of ANWR and coming down the pipeline. We did the entire North Slope and the entire Alaska pipeline and 600 miles of right-of-way. We drilled the wells, put it all together, built the industry up there, and had oil coming out of the pipeline in 3 years, from '72 till '75, marginally a little bit more than 36 months, but still, within 3 calendar years, there was oil coming out of that pipeline. There was an 800-mile pipeline. There were 600 miles of right-of-way. Drill the wells. Pick up the collection. Get it to the terminal at Mile Post Zero where the caribou congregate. That was in 3 years. 
   So I believe this, that if America makes up its mind, we can do it, if we did a Manhattan Project and started to build an atom bomb after the beginning of World War II and, to end the war, we'd had two ready and two dropped. We did that. President Kennedy said--and I think the year was 1963--we're going to go to the Moon. In 1969, we were on the Moon. 
   How can a nation that has that technical ability, a nation of smart, industrious people who have tamed everything we've decided to tame and that we've always done in record time--has something happened to our soul? Has something happened to our spirit that we would capitulate to the Lilliputian ropes that tie down America's greatness--the ropes of regulation? the ropes of environmental extremism? What's wrong with our spirit that we would let people like this hold America back? They would shut our economy down. 
   If somebody shuts down the valve at the Strait of Hormuz, that shuts off 42.6 percent of the world's export oil supply. Ahmadinejad has threatened to do just that, and he has also threatened to annihilate Israel, and he is determined to move forward in building nuclear weapons. He has said so even if the CIA in the NIE report some months ago said, no, we concluded back in 2003 that they quit trying. Not true. They're continually trying to enrich uranium. They are enriching uranium. They showed it to us on our own television sets. They're developing missiles to deliver a weapon. They showed us that on our television sets. 
   Why would we argue with the Iranians? Do we think they're perpetrating some kind of hoax?  
   It didn't work out so well for Saddam Hussein when he sought to perpetrate some kind of a hoax. They thought we were bluffing, and now we won't take them at their word, and we will watch in this Congress as the 
   San Francisco, Pelosi-led Congress shuts down every avenue of energy development that we can create? Well, every one except maybe they're okay with wind as long as it isn't out off of Nantucket. As long as Teddy Kennedy can't see it from his yacht, we can have some wind energy. They aren't so bad with geothermal because they don't see it very much, and they don't understand it as much as they see it. Then let's see. There must be some other things--solar, wind, geothermal. So we can have a little solar, too, but not if it means we've got to put solar panels out there across the desert, because that's unsightly. 
   So they worship the goddess, Mother Earth, and despise the idea of free market capitalism. They shut down the economy. You know, I think they're also aware that, as to the energy supplies that we have, as soon as we drill a well and we get that well up to production, that's the maximum that that well is going to produce for a day, and then its production day by day tapers off. That's the case with the energy as we develop it, so we constantly have to be out there exploring for new energy. That's the point, I think, that maybe wasn't made in the last hour that's essential for us in this hour. 
   I see that my good friend from California, Mr. Royce, has arrived on the floor, and he knows that I have offered an open invitation by my very presence here. I'd be so happy to yield so much time as he may consume to the astute gentleman from California. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (AMERICAN ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from California, and I appreciate you bringing this to the floor and laying it out with the clarity that you have. 
   Supply and demand, as you're speaking, I'm thinking, let's see, if there was 32 percent more corn on the market--being from Iowa, I think in those terms--that might be, say, 4 1/2 billion bushels more corn on the market, maybe a little more than that. I'm pretty sure if we dump 4 1/2 billion bushels of corn supposedly that we found somewhere on the market, the price would go down. 
   I was also thinking about Adam Smith when he wrote in his famous book ``Wealth of Nations,'' published in 1776, how it was that the cost of everything that we produce is the sum total of the capital and the labor required to produce whatever the commodity is. And he wrote about how the price of gold plummeted in Europe when the Spanish galleons returned from the New World loaded with gold. But he didn't say because of supply and demand strictly. He said it was because they had figured out how to take the price of labor out of the production of gold. They stole the gold, but the effect was the labor got cheap. 
   Supply and demand works for gold, it works for corn, and it works for oil. It works for everything including labor. They're all commodities. And some of the things that can affect that, of course, are the value of our dollar. I'd like to see that dollar shored up. 
   When I look at these bushels--excuse me, I'm thinking like an Iowan--when  I look at these million barrels, 3 million a day off the gulf as described by the gentleman from California, 1 million a day out of the arctic region up there, 2 1/2 million in oil shale, those are really just for starters. We've always found more oil than we predicted was there, and it will be the case this time. 
   On the subject matter of what it is that this Imperial Pelosi Congress won't let us vote on, this is the production chart for the United States of America for energy. And we need to, Mr. Speaker, talk about energy from the concept of total Btus of energy. We have to put it in one common measurement. So, rather than gallons or cords of wood, whatever it might be, we put this into Btus and energy. 
   This is all of the energy sources that we have here that we produce in the United States. And as we go around the edge here, I'll start right in here. Hydroelectric power, nuclear. Coal, 32 1/2 percent of our overall production is coal. Natural gas, 27 1/2 percent of our overall production is natural gas. Then you've got heavy petroleum, like asphalt and those kind of oils. Jet fuel, kerosene, diesel fuel's in red, and gasoline in blue, biomass, and a lot of that's wood. People are burning more wood today because of the cost of energy in pink. Then you get down to these tiny little slivers, biodiesel, nine-one hundredths of 1 percent. Ethanol fuel, .76 of 1 percent; solar, .11 of 1 percent; wind, .44; geothermal, .49. This is it. 
   Now, I would take you around this chart, and we're going to find that the folks that, I will say, worship at the altar of Mother Earth object to nearly every kind of energy that we produce in the United States. They object to a lot of the biofuels because it is burning wood, and it puts carbon dioxide in the air. The biomass, they've objected to. 
   Gasoline, we know the objection to that, and we have people in here that would rather have you ride your bicycle and they think that if gas prices go to $4 or $5 or more a gallon, more people will ride their bikes. 
   Fewer will get in their car. That will save the environment, and they can save Mother Earth. That's what they're thinking. So we can't develop anymore gasoline here in the United States or diesel fuel or jet fuel or heavy oils. That's all in the same kind of hydrocarbon, comes out of the same well, the crude oil well. That's all verboten, according to the Speaker's team from San Francisco. 
   And you get to natural gas. They have to drill wells to do that, and they've got us blocked offshore. They've got us blocked on non-national park public lands. Sometimes we can drill there, but we can't get access, and we can't lay pipelines, and we know that we can't transport natural gas unless we can conduct it through a pipeline or turn it into liquefied natural gas. 
   By the way, we had a vote on the floor today on a motion to recommit on a bill that would have opened up a bridge that's blocking tankers that are coming into Massachusetts with liquefied natural gas. They blocked that. They don't even want liquefied natural gas coming in up their little river, even though the Federal taxpayers pay for the bridge that's already replaced the one that's keeping the tankers from going underneath it. 
   That tells you where they are with natural gas, and that's Massachusetts mentality that teams up with some of that left coast mentality, not all of it by any means. 
   And the coal, it's almost to the point now--I happen to know of one expansion of a coal-fired generation plant. There may be more. But the people that are putting these plants together say we can't meet the regulations anymore. They're getting tighter and tighter. So coal-fired generating plants are pretty much off the table. 
   You kind of see, and I'm going around here, off the table all the way around. Nuclear, no, off the table. They're afraid of a Chernobyl, even though our technology doesn't melt down that way. It actually cools, instead of warms. So the greens are afraid of nuclear. 
   Hydroelectric, boy, now there is a superclean, wonderful, natural resource that renews itself. It rains, water runs down the river, comes through the turbine, spins it, generates electricity. What could be better than that? But a strong contingent of environmental extremists want to put all of our rivers back to where they were before because they don't believe we should even think or attempt to improve upon Mother Nature. 
   So I've gone all the way around here. Hydroelectric power, that was the piece there. And what's left? 
   When you add this all up, all of these things are forbidden by one entity or another. Even wind has resistance to it because people think that birds are going to fly into those windmills. And I can tell you, I can see 17 of them from my house. They have hundreds of them in my district. There aren't piles of dead birds underneath there. It's more dangerous to the birds when you drive your car down the road. They can at least see that windmill coming and they tend to avoid it. 
   So I can only find three sources of energy that maybe, maybe we could expand, and that would be--by the way, ethanol, biodiesel, that's food versus fuel, so there's a resistance there. So we end up with wind, unless Teddy Kennedy can see it; geothermal, as long as you can't see it; and what do they have, solar. 
   Now, these tiny little pieces here, if you add up of our overall production, that's .49, .44 and .11. Now I haven't done that. That's a little bit over 1 percent of our overall energy production is what they're going to let us expand to produce 100 percent of the energy that we can consume. 
   And Mr. Speaker, we're producing only 72 percent of the energy that we're consuming. So this energy pie isn't big enough. It's only 72 percent big enough to provide the energy necessary to fuel the United States and keep our economy going. 
   By the way, just providing enough energy isn't good enough. We can always buy enough energy until we go flat bloke. We have got to have enough energy that's economical for our industry to run, that's economical for people to engage in travel and enjoy life and be able to exercise our freedoms. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (AMERICAN ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Well, I think that we already see the heavy signs of those consequences, that when dictators become rich, they also become belligerent, and they begin to think that--well, actually, they're measuring their power. It's their economic power, and a lot of them run contrary to our values here in Western civilization. So we have more conflicts to face, and we're going to have to do it with less resources, and a Nation whose economy could no longer be thriving will have transferred our wealth overseas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (AMERICAN ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from California for coming to the floor and bringing this issue forward, helping to frame it in the fashion that he has. 
   And the segue gave me an opportunity to put up these two charts, and the chart that I just took down was the energy production chart. That was 72 quadrillion Btus of energy. The inside circle is the energy production chart, 72 quadrillion total energy production in the United States. The outside circle is the energy consumption in the United States. That's 101.4 quadrillion Btus. 
   Now, those numbers don't mean a lot to anybody, I don't think, until you just put it in perspective. We are producing 72 percent of the energy that we're consuming, and if we're going to be energy independent, if we're going to stop transferring American wealth overseas, as the gentleman from California said, then we've got to produce as much energy as we consume. 
   And I'm not stuck specifically on producing just as much gas as we burn or just as much diesel or just as much electricity in whichever fashion it is, but I'm insistent upon the idea that we go to full energy production, that if we produce enough Btus and natural gas to offset something we might use in coal, let the size of the proportion of these pie charts change a little bit depending upon what's most economical. 
   But I do think natural gas needs to remain, as JOHN PETERSON of Pennsylvania said, the mother's milk of manufacturing and that it should not be the kind of energy that we're using to expand our electrical generation.     
   And natural gas is also the feedstock for 90 percent of our nitrogen fertilizer. 
   And so there's two essential uses. And we can't turn over the nitrogen fertilizer production to places like Venezuela and Russia, but that's where it's going. We've almost lost the entire fertilizer industry in the United States because we haven't acted to open up these energy supplies. We know that we have 420 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, and that's known reserves. That's known reserves, and we still can't go offshore in many places and explore. 
   So here's our answer: It is, expand all of these forms of energy, every single one. And yes, we need to expand--even the energy that TEDDY KENNEDY objects to, let's expand some wind and some geothermal and some solar. That's the three that seem to be the least objectionable. But let's do all the rest while we're at it. 
   And this green one right here, nuclear; when you think we haven't built a nuclear plant since the mid-1970s, about 1975, there is a brand new one that's under construction in South Carolina today--and boy we're on a blitzkrieg to get that built--and it's going to be going online in 2017. Can you imagine a nation that--we can put the erector set together a lot faster than that, we just can't jump through all the regulatory hoops any faster than that. So the master switch gets thrown and the lights come on in South Carolina in 2017. And that is then the master manual for how to go through all of the regulatory and environmental red tape to build the next one after that. 
   And there was a vote in South Dakota, a public referendum to build a new refinery in Union County, South Dakota, Elk Point area, $10 billion investment. The referendum passed in favor of it, 59-41, so they said most of us think it's okay to have a refinery in our back yard. That refinery is one that I think it has a very good chance of going, but even those who are driving this don't have the answer to every question on how they jump through all of the regulatory hoops that have been created. 
   So here's an example: In 1970, when the oil companies wanted to go up to the North Slope of Alaska and open up Alaska for drilling, there was a court injunction that was slapped on them. That was a new thing then. I can remember being shocked that someone could come along and file a court case and shut down an entire region from development for energy. 
   There used to be a thing called property rights in America, constitutional property rights, and that would be a taking of the property. They went in there and acquired those leases with all good intent and above board, and they were shut down by an environmentalist lawsuit that went to court in 1970. In 1972, the final litigation hurdle had been leaped and they began the construction of the 600 miles of right-a-way and the 800 miles of pipelines and all the wells and collector tubes and the terminals on the Alaska Pipeline. 
   It took 2 years. And in 1972, I was astonished that anybody could hold up an operation like that for 2 years. And yet today, that seems like a blink of a litigative eye, 2 years. If we could resolve all the litigation that's holding up energy in 2 years, in 4 years we could have the energy problem solved. And that's because the trial lawyers, the environmentalists, the people that want to make their money off of litigation, the same kind of people that held up the Intelligence bill and put our Nation at risk, those who see profit in squeezing it out of somebody else, that's holding us up on energy, and the environmentalists. 
   So now I add this up on production. All of these things are off the table by environmentalists: 
   Can't do biomass, that burns wood, puts greenhouse gas in the air. Can't do motor gasoline, same reason. Can't do diesel fuel. Can't do jet fuel. None of the crude oil can we do because they're afraid it contributes to global warming. And as we come on around the horn, kerosene fits in that same category. Natural gas, I spoke to that. Coal, can't build any more coal-fire plants, or if we do, we've got some new hoops to jump through that no one has jumped through before. 
   You get to the nuclear, and the French are producing 78 percent of their electricity by nuclear, and we're down here where our overall energy consumption is 8.29 percent. The percentage of our overall energy production is 11.66 percent. But nuclear is also off the table. I spoke about hydroelectric, off the table. 
   So we get to add up geothermal and wind and solar. I add up those three things. And I happen to know that in our overall consumption, those three sources, geothermal, wind and solar, total .74 of 1 percent of our overall energy consumption. And if we're going to be independent, we're going to only expand those? What's your answer? Do you have an answer? I don't think so. I think you worship at the alter of mother nature. 
   And your default position is to always go back to pre Garden of Eden. I don't think you can think beyond that. I'll say this, that I know who created this Earth; God created this Earth. And he gave us dominion over it, and the animals and the plants in it to be used respectfully. And yes, we can improve upon mother nature, we've done it many times. That's why we're given the gift of the intellect and free will that we have. And we're to be tested in this fashion. And I'm more than happy to rise to that occasion and be tested in this fashion. And this side of the aisle over there, you all think the default position is, go back to pre Garden of Eden, mother nature, whatever the random grab-bag thing it was that came out of Darwin's ``survival of the fittest'' before man intervened as an intervening species, whatever that was, that's the utopian version that you're after because you have no other standard. We'll, I just described the standard, look it up in Genesis. 
   We can do this. We can produce all the energy that this country consumes by expanding all of these sources of energy from the production chart. Stretch it out to the outside limits of the consumption chart. We can do this, we must do this. And if we fail, the other people in the world--whom we are sending money to every day by the billions--will own us. And when they  own us, then they will tell us what to do and they will be our boss and our freedoms will be gone and diminished. And by the way, the people we're sending the money to for the most part don't believe much in freedom. 
   And we're doing our best to encourage others to buy into the freedom model that we have. If we besmirch the freedom responsibility to make good decisions for the best long-term interests of the American people, we trail in the dust of golden hopes of the Founding Fathers. 
   So much has been said about energy tonight, Mr. Speaker, and that makes my point on energy. I may come back and reiterate it, but I'll take up another subject matter that has me significantly concerned. And that is, that as we watch the Presidential race unfold, and we're watching as one of the Presidential candidates does his photo-op stops around the Middle East and Europe, and as that Presidential candidate--and specifically the junior Senator from Illinois--has said that he expects to be in a leadership role for the next 10 years or so, he has already anointed himself as President. And so I would submit--and I don't hear anybody on the Democrat side say, wait a minute, calm down, that Presidential seal was a little bit of an overreach and the statement that you're going to be in command for the next 10 years means that, even if you win the Presidency this year and get re-elected 4 years later, it's still not 10 years. So perhaps you can amend the Constitution and make such a prediction. Maybe you're such a marvel of nature you can do all of that, Mr. Obama. 
   But even if you're half of what you say, that makes you the leader of the Democrat Party in the United States of America. That means that the people over here on this side of the aisle are seeking to accommodate the positions that you've taken, trying to make you look good as you run for the Presidency, applauding and supporting the globe trotting and the speech--that didn't take place at the Brandenburg gate today--all of that adulation that goes on is surely affecting the agenda here on the floor of Congress. It has to be and it has to have been. 
   For example, 40 different bills and resolutions brought to the floor of this House in the 110th Congress, all designed to underfund, unfund, deploy our troops out of Iraq and undermine the spirit and the will of our own fighting men and women, while they encourage our enemy. Forty bills and resolutions. All of those fit exactly with Obama's foreign policy, ``get out and get out now.'' 
   I'm a little amazed that he can argue that, when asked if the surge worked, he couldn't agree that the surge worked. He said it was a hypothetical question. What's hypothetical about sending 170,000 troops over into a combat zone? What's hypothetical about some of them that come back with a flag draped over their coffin? That's not hypothetical, Senator Obama. That's real life, it's real death, it's real families that gave their son or daughter, lost their husband or their wife for our freedom. And you can't answer frivolously and flippantly that it's a hypothetical question, did the surge work or didn't it work? Obviously it worked. 
   And to argue that you have four points out there that the rest of--the President and JOHN MCCAIN are coming around to, that they're agreeing with you because you said we ought to get out of Iraq back in 2005--I think 2005 was the year that he said my position on Iraq is identical with that of President Bush. So I'm not sure when the first time was he said I think we should get out, but I know it was when we were under combat stress and pressure and things weren't going that well over there. And now I see him walking around the tarmac at Baghdad International--where I've been five times and I'll be again before this election cycle is over. And each time I've been there--hmm, I don't know about that. I think maybe the first time I arrived there I didn't wear a bullet-proof vest and I didn't wear a helmet. I think I went in there in casual khakis because the threat wasn't deemed to be as high as it turned out to be. The rest of the time I wore a bullet-proof vest and I wore a helmet. And I look there now, Senator Obama gets off of the plane or the helicopter, no bullet-proof vest, no helmet. Why is that? Senator, it's because the surge worked. The surge worked, and it's safe enough for you to walk around at Baghdad International in your shirt sleeves. 
   A couple or 3 years ago, when I was walking around Baghdad International and I had security personnel standing between me and the line of fire, the other side of the concrete wall was the Mahdi militia, Muqtada-al Sadr's militia. They were controlling the civilian side of the airport. And the military side, by some truce--we didn't shoot each other much, I guess, through that concrete--held the other side. And today, the Mahdi militia is decimated and gone. Muqtada al-Sadr, the bane of peace in Iraq, has gone from doing something he's not very good at. Now he's studying. He's no longer a general. When he loses his army, he goings off to be a scholar instead. And for him to get ramped back up again and ever be commanding a Mahdi militia looks pretty slim to the people I'm talking to. 
   The reason, OBAMA, you can walk around on the tarmac at Baghdad International in shirt sleeves is because the surge worked. And the reason that we can pull some troops out of Iraq incrementally, as situations adjust on the ground, as they have been adjusting and continue to adjust on the ground, the reason is because the surge worked. And to take credit because some troops can come out of Iraq when you said ``pull them all out now, right now,'' and when you said, ``I will, on my first day in office, order the immediate withdrawal of the troops from Iraq,'' the only condition, the only caveat was, I'll maintain a rear guard so they don't get shot in the back as they run off and get on board the troop ship, that's what's going on. You can't fool the American people in that. 
   And you say that you want to send a couple of brigades to Afghanistan. Do it now, do it before the election. We can't wait until January 20--presuming, of course, that JOHN MCCAIN won't make the right decision. He's far more likely to make the right decision. And I actually think he's actually more likely to be President today. But to argue that we should send troops from Iraq to Afghanistan immediately is an obscene contradiction to the sacrifice that's been made by our military personnel that are there. 
   It works like this; here's how the logic in the rational world goes: If President Bush has the insight and the courage to empower General Petraeus, recognize his leadership, allow him the time to go back and write the counter-insurgency manual, appoint him to command the troops in Iraq for the purposes of initiating the surge, make sure General Petraeus comes here before this Congress, explains it to us, we appropriate the money--you didn't have the nerve to shut the funding off because you didn't want to say, well, absolutely no to the troops because the disgrace of shutting the funding off and watching 3 million people die in Southeast Asia in 1975 comes back to haunt. 
   The President had the vision to appoint General Petraeus. He had the vision to buy into that vision. He made the tough order. He put the troops on the line. They went there. The surge worked. The political solution flowed behind it and with it and in anticipation of it because they knew that we were going to be there for a period of time and would give the Iraqis time to get themselves established. 
   If the surge worked in Iraq, OBAMA, tell me why---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (AMERICAN ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I acknowledge that statement as correct. And Mr. Speaker, I will direct my remarks to the Chair. I appreciate that. 
   So Mr. Speaker, when I speak to you and echo this message across to the other Chamber, the idea that a surge didn't work in Iraq but it allowed Presidential candidates to walk around on the tarmac without a bullet-proof vest or a helmet, but it will work in Afghanistan?     
   That's a rationale that doesn't fit for the people in the Midwest. They know better. They've watched this. They stayed up to speed with what's going on, and they will not be fooled. And I will not be fooled either. 
   So what we have is we have a situation where the political climate in this  Chamber, Mr. Speaker, seeks to meld and shape itself to a presidential campaign, to adopt those policies, to make it so it increases the odds that their candidate will be elected President. 
   And part of this, Mr. Speaker, is unfolding tomorrow morning in the House Judiciary Committee. I don't know that this is published in the news media, but I know what I got in my Judiciary Committee hearing notice here within the last hour. This is a notice that says that there is going to be, for the first time in this millennia, impeachment hearings in the United States House of Representatives in the Judiciary Committee, impeachment hearings to consider impeachment of the President of the United States and the Vice President of the United States, starting at 10 a.m. tomorrow morning in room 2141 of the Rayburn House Office Building. 
   I can only conclude, Mr. Speaker, that the initiative for this has to be approved by the presidential candidate of the party that controls the Judiciary Committee and this Chamber. There's no other conclusion that can be drawn. It is all politics all the time. There are no coincidences in politics. If a presidential candidate didn't want to have impeachment hearings going on, he'd make sure that they weren't going on. If a Speaker of the House or a chairman of the Judiciary Committee was considering such an idea to hold impeachment hearings, they would surely run it across the powers that be within their party so there wasn't a conflict that rose up to bite them. I have to believe, and I do believe, that this is with the full support and endorsement of the presidential candidate chosen by the party on the other side of the aisle. 
   This is what we're up against tomorrow, Mr. Speaker. It's going to be an interesting day. 
   I was not in this Congress during the impeachment hearings of 1998, although I was in this city. I came to this city to do a couple of conferences, and I picked up the Washington Post, and on about Page 4, there was a little clip in there that said impeachment hearings in the House Judiciary Committee, room 2141, open to the public, staring at 10 o'clock in the morning. I believe the dates were the 7th, 8th, and 9th of December, 1998. I looked at that, and I concluded that these were historical times and that in spite of whatever the conferences were that I'd come out here to attend, attending the impeachment hearings would be far more instructive, that I would then be part of history. 
   Well, I observed those hearings for 3 days in a row. I was sitting behind David Shippers when he delivered the summary of the prosecution. I happen to have a copy that was handed to me that day by the Judiciary Committee staff. I keep that in my file. It's an historic event. These events tomorrow will be historic too, although they are far from as serious as what was taking place in 1998 because in 1998 there was an impeachment in this House. This House voted to impeach the President of the United States, Mr. Speaker. They did so based on solid evidence, and they went over to the Senate to bring forth the prosecution. 
   And I see things in this notice that goes this way: ``Full Committee Hearing, Executive Power and Its Constitutional Limitations'' being the subject, the subject being three resolutions introduced by Congressman DENNIS KUCINICH and different resolutions to either impeach President Bush or Vice President Cheney. It says that interest groups have advocated for the impeachment of the President and the Vice President. Nobody's talking about this where I live, but there are enough radicals to bring this thing forward. 
   We are going to hear from several Members of Congress, one, two, three, four Members of Congress tomorrow. We are going to hear from a former Associate Deputy Attorney General from the Reagan administration. We are going to hear from the Mayor of Salt Lake City, Mr. Speaker, who has said publicly this: ``This President has engaged in such incredible abuses of power and breaches of trust with both Congress and the American people and misleading us into this tragic and unbelievable war, the violation of treaties, other international law, our Constitution, our own domestic laws, and then his role in heinous human rights abuses, I think all of that together calls for impeachment.'' 
   Well, I would reject all of those allegations as having substance, and I don't think that substance is going to come out tomorrow, Mr. Speaker, because this is a dog and pony show. This is a political exercise. 
   Actually, I tried to get the chairman to yield to me the other day, and he declined to do so, because I was watching the progression of these judicial public lynchings that have been taking place of Bush administration officials in the Judiciary Committee over the last month or better. We had David Addington, the Chief of Staff of the Vice President of the United States, brought before the Judiciary Committee under threat of subpoena. And he was told by one of the committee members, ``I'm glad al Qaeda can see you now.'' Brought before the public, a man who has been a private individual, and whipped up one side and down the other with verbal assaults, trying to find to trip him up so that he could go the same path as Scooter Libby, whom no one can still tell me what it was that Scooter Libby said or did that was wrong. All they know is that he's been beaten up on so much, there must be something there. Well, Mr. Speaker, when it comes to the politics in this Chamber, I can tell you there doesn't have to be anything there to be beaten up upon. 
   But here's what's going to make it a problem for some of the members in the Judiciary Committee. They were on the committee in 1998, many of them. They are on record as to what they thought was an objective constitutional means, reason for which a President should be impeached. They said such things as, and this is a quote, ``We are using the most powerful institutional tool available to this body, impeachment, in a highly partisan manner. Impeachment was designed to rid this Nation of traitors and tyrants.'' That's the chairman of the committee. 
   Here's another quote from a committee member. This is MAXINE WATERS, California, who believes we should nationalize our oil industry, by the way, but, Mr. Speaker, here's the quote: ``How must our American soldiers feel to have their Commander in Chief under attack''--this is of President Clinton during the impeachment hearings. ``How must our American soldiers feel to have their Commander in Chief under attack while they are engaged in battle? They have the right to feel betrayed and undermined. Today we are here in the People's House debating the partisan impeachment of the President of the United States of America while the Commander in Chief is managing a crisis and asking world leaders for support. This is indeed a Republican coup d'etat.'' Mr. Speaker, that's MAXINE WATERS, 1998, during the impeachment of Bill Clinton. I wonder how she is going to conduct herself tomorrow, if she is going to be consistent with her words then or if she's going to contrive another argument manana. 
   Here's another quote from a current Judiciary Committee member speaking of the Clinton impeachment in 1998: ``We have been warned repeatedly that these allegations are nowhere near what is necessary to overturn a national election and to impeachment a President. Despite these cautionary flags, this committee has turned a deaf ear to hundreds of years of precedent and to the Constitution that has kept this country strong and unified.'' That's Congressman ROBERT C. SCOTT of Virginia, a Judiciary Committee member. 
   Here's a statement made by the current Chair of the Immigration Subcommittee back in 1998 of the Clinton impeachment: ``The people's will must not be overridden by those who claim to know better, by those who believe they know what is best for the American people,'' ZOE LOFGREN. 
   You get the idea, Mr. Speaker. Let me just do another one just to put some of this on the record, Mr. Speaker. Here's another quote of the 1998 impeachment of President Bill Clinton, Judiciary Committee member and Constitution Subcommittee Chair: ``It's an enormous responsibility and an extraordinary power. It's not one that should be exercised lightly. It certainly is not one which should be exercised in a manner which is or would be perceived to be unfair or partisan.'' 
   Well, get ready for tomorrow, Mr. Speaker. I don't 
   expect it's going to be fair, but I don't think there is a single  pundit in America that could analyze it as anything except partisan. Not a witch hunt anymore. They've found their witch. They're bringing impeachment hearings before the House Judiciary Committee, all of that on the heels of the attempted public lynching of David Addington, the Chief of Staff of the Vice President of the United States; Doug Feith, the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, also brought before the committee; and then behind that last week, former Attorney General John Ashcroft, another attempt made at him yesterday or the day before. I guess it was the day before. We had Attorney General Mukasey. All of this before the committee, all of this under at least the implication that a subpoena can be issued, sometimes the actual vote and threat of a subpoena. I don't know if a subpoena has been actually issued under any of these cases. But these are honorable men. They'll come testify. They have got nothing to hide. But it's a grueling thing to sit there and look at the Judiciary Committee panel and know that it's exactly what, Mr. Speaker, Jerry Nadler said it should not be. He said, ``It certainly is not one which should be exercised in a manner which is or would be perceived to be unfair or partisan.'' 
   Well, I am very convinced that Jerry Nadler thought that it was unfair and partisan in 1998. I don't know that a majority of the American people think that, but today if you would walk down the streets of America, at least inside the coasts in America, and say, ``What in the world would the Democrats want to impeach President Bush and Vice President Cheney for?'' I would be hard pressed to find constituents in my part of the country that could give me an informed answer. That means to me that it's unfair and it's partisan, and this entire exercise is about discrediting the Bush administration so that the landing zone is prepped for Election Day in November. That's what I see. 
   I don't think there are coincidences in politics. I think it's all real. And it is not a game. It is hardball. This is the hardest of hardball that's unfolding here tomorrow. The unbelievable, the unanticipated, the breathtaking, the illogical, the major reach, the d&#233;ja vu feeling with a different pair of figures in front of it. 
   Mr. Speaker, I will take us back also to another little event when I had exposure to some of the things going on by the hard left in America. 
   March 18, 2003, just a few days before the liberation of Iraq began, there was an anti-war protest that took place out on the mall. Now, I had not been to one of those before. We don't have them in my part of the country. But I thought I should take a look at this one. And so I put on my Redskins sweatshirt, an old one. I looked like a native, put a cap on, walked down there amongst the people that were getting ready for this march on the White House to protest the war that hadn't begun. And as I was there and I watched a photographer wash the lens of his camera with an American flag he kept in his pocket for a rag, and he was pleased to do it, as I watched some of the countercultural signs be put up, I took a lot of pictures down there, many of which couldn't be published and many of which you wouldn't show your children. There was a big stage. A big stage with big speakers up on it. And the orators that came forward to stand between those large speakers were there to gin up the crowd so they got all wound up and then they could march off across the mall and march around the White House and go protest the war that hadn't begun. And I did watch that entire march and that whole protest, and that's a longer speech than I've got time for tonight, Mr. Speaker. But I saw the chairman of the Judiciary Committee call for the impeachment of President Bush before the operations began. 
   And now here we are, March 18, 2003, fast forward to July 24, and tomorrow will be July 25, 2008. Just a little over 5 years later, we're there. It's happening. It's coming before the Judiciary Committee tomorrow in room 2141, 10 o'clock a.m. I think it will be a day that lives in infamy, a shameful day, a day when the American people wake up and realize there is a connection between a committee and the United States Congress seeking to impeach a President without cause during a time of war, during a time when our energy is tied up and trapped up and we're looking at $4 gas, during a time when we have economic difficulties and there needs to be confidence in the American system and the American economy, during a time as we move up to a presidential election. All of these things are affected. They are all wrapped up together. They all have to have, Mr. Speaker, the imprimatur of approval stamped on it by the man that wanted to give a speech at the Brandenburg Gate today.     
   It's his agenda. It's his motive. It's them working with him. It's his impeachment hearings. This all ties together. And I believe the American voters will hold the kind of people who pull these kind of moves accountable. And I'm going to see to it that at least the information is out. And I trust the wisdom of the American people. 
   Join me tomorrow, Mr. Speaker. I will hold a chair for you. All of us will be looking in and see that at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning, room 2141, the House Judiciary Committee, impeachment hearings, President Bush, Vice President Cheney, held tomorrow. They ensue at 10 in the morning. I will be there. Mr. Speaker, you be there. And let's right this ship that is going off tacking so hard to the left. It's going to sink if we don't turn it around. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (PROTECT AMERICA ACT OF 2007 EXTENSION -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this 15-day extension to the FISA law, but I ask the question, why are we here? And the reason we are here is because of a court decision that I think appropriately defined the letter of the language in the 1978 FISA law. But because the technology changes, that court decision was made. And that opened up this can of worms, this Pandora's box of who's concerned about whose civil liberties versus how we provide this balance in our intelligence. And I would point out that this is a two-front war that we're fighting: One is in the Middle East, successfully I will add, and the other one is the surveillance that protects us domestically here at home and provides for our military to have the tools to work with overseas. That is the highest constitutional responsibility that we have. We have congressional oversight. We can look into this and see what's going on with the FISA law anyway, but the effort to protect our retroactive liability of those companies that cooperate with our intelligence community is essential. We will lose our ability to do surveillance if we lose the ability of the companies to cooperate with us. And this is not a trial lawyer's issue; it's a national security issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IMPROVING ENERGY, NATURAL DISASTER AND HEALTH CARE POLICIES IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I appreciate the gentleman from Georgia's coming to the floor here tonight, Madam Speaker, and for addressing these issues that matter to America, also from a Georgia perspective. 
   There are a lot of things I do want to say about energy tonight, Madam Speaker. Yet I think it's important for me to address first the situation that's 
   going on in Iowa with the disasters that we've had. 
   To lay some of this backdrop out for you, I have significant background when it comes to the experience of having been flooded myself. I go back to '93 when we had the 500-year flood event in Iowa. I can remember earlier than that, in about 1991, sitting down and actually playing gate tag in the airport with Ellen Gordon, who was the director of Iowa Emergency Management at the time. 
   We worked out a system by which we could respond to disasters in Iowa. She was very, very good, and was in the business of making sure that we were prepared for disasters. Yet our discussion didn't really cover the breadth of the floods. It was more the idea of the more localized tornadoes that do come and that have visited our State and many others throughout the centuries. 
   Our focus was on: What if there is a large fire? What if there is a series of tornadoes or of bad tornadoes? How could we put the equipment in and the people in to respond to that kind of disaster and clean it up? 
   Yet, just a couple of years later, we had the 500-year flood event, and so it wasn't something that we had had previous significant experience with in our memories. Although, anyone can look back at the times before we did some of the Corps of Engineers' work that stabilized the Mississippi River on our east side and the Missouri River on the west border and some of the other major rivers, including the reservoirs that we built throughout the State on up through the Des Moines River that are designed to protect Des Moines. For example, there is the Saylorville Reservoir and the Red Rock down below Des Moines and the Coralville Reservoir that protects Iowa City. At least it did a respectable job of doing so. Those would be the major reservoirs in the State. Then additionally, there's Rathbun down in the south. 
   It turns out that we have actually done work on all of those reservoirs, Madam Speaker. Having been under water myself and having delt with four of our major projects in 1993 and having volunteered to go over to Keokuk to spend some days on a rock pile, which at that time was out in the middle of the Mississippi River which today is on the shoreline of the Mississippi River at Keokuk, I'm not without experience when it comes to floods and disasters. 
   Having been one of the first Members of Congress to go down into New Orleans in the immediate aftermath of Katrina and having flown, really, all of that--most of it in helicopters, some of that in a plane--and having gone down on the ground and having traveled on the ground around New Orleans and into Louisiana--Slidell, Louisiana comes to mind immediately--and having slept in a Red Cross cot and having felt bad about it because I found out that a Red Cross personnel had given up his cot for me to sleep on, I've been in the middle of this. I've watched people when they've been hit by floods. I know, I think, what goes on in their heads and how it is when the flood waters come up. The faster they come up, the more adrenaline you get to try to stave off that flood and the more sandbags you can throw and the more you can mobilize, let's say, manpower and machinery to protect us from those floods and to try to keep the floodwater out of our critical infrastructure. 
   When it crests and if it runs over the top of your levees and over the top of your sandbags and when you watch that fill up, it's a feeling of despair. It's a feeling of we tried as hard as we could. We did everything we could do to be ready for this, and then when it was time for all hands on deck, all hands were on deck. All men and women came to the levees, and they pitched the sandbags, and they did everything they could do to get ready. When the flood crests and you lose and when the water fills up in places where it has never been before, like in Cedar Rapids, Iowa and in places like Iowa City and Coralville, when that happens, you have a crushing feeling of despair. 
   Sometimes there is that long wait, the wait for the water to go down because, especially on the eastern side of  the State, along the Mississippi drainage area and in the Mississippi Valley, the water comes up slow, and it goes down slowly. So there's a longer period that it takes to be in a position to recover. 
   On the west side of the district that I represent, the water goes up fast and comes down fast, and there's a shorter period of time that it takes for it to dry up and a shorter period of time for us to recover, but all the while that's going on, your adrenaline peaks at about the crest of the flood, and then it diminishes in the aftermath of the flood. 
   As to where we are now, I was actually, I will say, surprised, sadly surprised, internally taken aback to see what I saw last Saturday in Cedar Rapids and in Iowa City. I know those towns. I know those cities. I know those river valleys. I've seen them flooded before, especially the Iowa River Valley, not so much the Cedar River Valley. I've not seen the cities of Iowa City and Cedar Rapids under water like I did when I flew over that just after the high watermark. First, I'll tell you what happened. 
   It rained perhaps more than ever before in a section of Iowa that would be the northern half of the State, almost exactly the northern half of the State. It would be 100 miles from north to south, from the Minnesota border down to the south--that line and 300 miles roughly east and west. That area also expanded into southern Minnesota and into other places of the east and west of Iowa, but in that area in Iowa, 100 miles by 300 miles--and there were intermittent rains and additional rains, but in one rain on one night and on one morning, Iowa took in that area of 100 by 300 miles no less than 4 inches of rain, something meeting and exceeding 10 inches of rain in other areas within that 100- by 300-mile area, three-30,000ths square miles with more than 4 inches of rain and up to 10 inches of rain. 
   When you see something like that, you see that it's probably more water than has ever come in a single rain before. When it came on saturated soils and as the water ran off of those hillsides and down the rivers and it crested at Cedar Rapids, the Cedar River cresting at Cedar Rapids--it did its share of flooding in Cedar Falls and in Waterloo, but when it crested at Cedar Rapids, that city had already been seeing the worst in '93. When the high watermarks in '93 were noted, the businesses looked at that and said this is as high as it's ever going to get. This is a 500-year event.     
   And so if I make sure that my business is above that elevation of the water crest in 1993, put it up, say, a foot above, who above that line would need to buy flood insurance? The rational thing is, when you get a 500-year flood event, you're probably not going to live to see another event where the water gets higher than it did. 
   And it might be something that one could understand if it came back and it approached that level or exceeded the 500-year flood event level by a foot or so, but what really happened in Cedar Rapids was the high water mark there was in 1851, and the new high water mark set in the floods less than a couple of months ago crested 11.12 feet above the previous high water mark, which was set in 1851. That's not a level that anyone could have anticipated. It's not something anybody can build for. Its not something the Corps of Engineers can tell us that we can adjust for. It was a weather anomaly where huge rains came in--and just in the watershed areas, and broader, but it focused on those watershed areas. It sent the water down through the funnels that are the river valleys, the Cedar River Valley and the Iowa River Valley. 
   And Cedar Rapids, the second largest city in Iowa, had its downtown flooded with something like 600 to 800 businesses flooded, and now, 1,300 square blocks of residences that were flooded--probably more than that, but that would be one of the measures. And I'll submit this, Madam Speaker, that I've been to those places where we've had natural disasters and had floods and hurricanes. 
   And I did a number of trips into New Orleans and I walked the streets of New Orleans and I went back to see their downtown dark when the power was off and the utilities weren't functioning and the businesses were gone. And some of them had the windows out and the doors open and they were being aired out, trying to dry them out. To go in and strip out the drywall off the walls--the wet drywall, I would add, if that's not an oxymoron--to have to go in and replace all the furniture and the carpet and the walls and the appliances and re-wire and come back in with new walls and new flooring and new carpeting, for example, and new furniture, to get all of that done takes time. It takes time to find people, it takes time to find the resources. And the sad thing is it takes a lot more time to find the money and know what you can plan on. All of that I've worked with in New Orleans. And all of that that I've described exists in downtown Cedar Rapids today and in the residential areas. 
   To go into downtown Cedar Rapids on a Saturday afternoon and look around there and see there isn't any business functioning down there, that there are generators set up to run light plants to carry just some streetlights at night because the utilities aren't back up. There is a steam power system that has been providing that utility for the downtown Cedar Rapids; about 25 percent of the businesses have access to that and all the rest do not. 
   There were businesses that were established businesses that have been there for--the building was functioning in that fashion for perhaps a century or more; never been flooded--or not flooded in our memory, anyway--but under water six, eight, 10, 12, 14 feet of water that went in and destroyed these businesses, depending on the elevation of the business and where the water decided it would want to go. 
   This Congress, however much empathy they've provided--and I appreciate it all. And I appreciate, of course, the how responsive they had for Katrina--but this Congress has not reacted fast enough to the situations in Iowa and in Illinois and in the Midwest from these past floods. 
   What we have done in this Congress to date is, in a supplemental bill, we brought $2.65 billion in funding to backfill FEMA, an existing account for FEMA. And that's all that's been done from an appropriations standpoint or from a policy standpoint. 
   We do have a whole series of tax packages put together by Senator Grassley. And this tax package that he has put together is a good one, it does what can be done for tax relief. And it is the tax relief that was offered to the people and the businesses in New Orleans during Hurricane Katrina and Rita. It was that with some loopholes closed that were found by some folks down there--we were happy to close the loopholes. That tax package hasn't been moved. We don't have a response from Ways and Means here. I don't know that we have a response from the Finance Committee in the Senate and how that might be. Those things need to happen. 
   The business people in these communities, in Iowa City and in Cedar Rapids, and the smaller communities up and down the river, including Columbus Junction and including Oakville, they need to have some definitive action on the part of this Congress. This Congress can act definitively when they see a disaster that grips their heart. Here's how they acted in Katrina back in 2005: 
   September 2, 2005, we appropriated, in a special supplemental spending bill, $10.5 billion for the initial down payment on Katrina relief; $10.5 billion, September 2. Six days later--not a week later, six days later--Congress appropriated $51.8 billion for Katrina relief. That was September 8. Then December 30, Congress appropriated $29.1 billion, Katrina relief. Then June 15, 2006, $19.3 billion, Katrina relief. Then on May 25, 2007, $7.7 billion, Katrina relief. And on November 13, 2007, late last year, $6.4 billion, Katrina relief. That adds up--and don't hold me to this math, this is a memo note--$123.5 billion in Katrina relief that began when--the disaster declaration was made August 29, 2005. And on the second day of September, the first $10.5 billion came through. And then 6 days later, and then late December, then June of the following year, then May of the following year, then November also of last year; $123.5 billion, Madam Speaker. 
   And this Congress--and the only measure is not how much money did we appropriate to backfill FEMA, that was  $2.65 billion, in that same bill, Katrina relief, more than twice as much went to Katrina, $5.8 billion, Madam Speaker. 
   So I wouldn't make a big issue of this if I didn't think that there was a desperate need. And even though I had flown over the entire flood area--that we could identify at least in eastern Iowa--and western Iowa for that matter, and we had some of our own flood that wasn't as broad and probably not as severe, even though I've flown all over that and looked at that--and I know what floods look like from the air and the ground and I've lived them and I've been flooded myself--I was sadly surprised and gripped when I saw especially downtown Cedar Rapids with the businesses dark on a Saturday afternoon. 
   And also, to talk to the businessmen and the businesswomen there that are trying to figure out what they can do without definitive answers and response, I know it's difficult. And I said with Katrina that even if Mayor Nagin and the Governor of Louisiana--let me just put it this way: Even if the city of New Orleans, the State of Louisiana and the Federal Government, all of our agencies, if they had all performed at their maximum statutory authority, we still didn't have the resources and we didn't have the mechanism in place to save everybody, and as many resources as possible in that disaster down in New Orleans. 
   We've learned a lot from that. I'm not here to criticize FEMA or Small Business--they're certainly not the Corps of Engineers--and the balance of the Federal agencies, and certainly not to criticize the Red Cross. Everybody mobilized, they went to the rampart, so to speak. The volunteers came out in numbers to the point where sometimes they were actually turned away because there were more volunteers than there were sandbags, so to speak, in some areas. I'm proud of that. I'm proud of that response, and I'm proud of the work that got done and I'm proud of the example that got set. 
   And I'm proud of the spirit of our Iowa people. And as I met with the business leaders and the businessmen and women in both of those cities, Cedar Rapids and Iowa city, as I went back to FEMA headquarters and stayed and spent some time--about 2.5 hours on a Sunday morning--with the State Disaster Coordination headquarters of FEMA, I met with many of their people, and even right down to a second generation FEMA employee. There is a lot of accumulated knowledge, a lot of disaster expertise within FEMA. I'm not here to criticize that. 
   Madam Speaker, the issue that I raise is, downtown Cedar Rapids is dark. Their power is off. They've been 
   flooded out. Six hundred to eight hundred businesses are out; some will not come back. Every day that goes by, the odds of losing another business and another business and another business get greater and greater. 
   These businesses that have been flooded have lost a lot of their capital base, a lot of their assets. Some of these people have worked for a lifetime and put all of their resources back in their business. And their business was above the 100-year flood event. They didn't have flood insurance because that was a rational decision, not an irresponsible decision. And the water got 11.12 feet higher than ever before and they are caught by an act of God calamity of rarest proportions, and yet they don't have anything that they can really hang their hat on as to what will be the sequence of events? What resources will be deployed in the area? 
   Yes, we know that Small Business Administration is in there offering loans. And I think they've done an acceptable job of processing the paperwork and giving people something that they can count on. They showed me the numbers of the loans that have been written and approved. And yet I know that, even though the loan is approved for people in residences, for example, as well as businesses, that isn't the only thing required to get people up and going. For example, if your business has been flooded and wiped out, and let's say you qualify for a small business loan, you still have to come up with locating the materials and you have to locate a contractor, and you have to put together a real business plan that's going to carry you on. 
   I had to make some of those decisions when I was under water in 1993. And at that time I was in my early forties. So to look at something that was capitalized over 20 or 30 years was a different equation for me than it is today in a place like Cedar Rapids or Iowa City, where some of the business owners are retirement age, 63, 64, 65 years old. And when they're looking at a disaster that's cost them hundreds of thousands of dollars, and the equity that they've used to leverage their business through these years is gone and they're looking at a 4 or an 8 percent loan--and by the way, the higher the risk, the higher the interest--a 4 to an 8 percent loan, they have to make a decision, when they're borrowing money, when the last payment on that 30-year loan is beyond their life expectancy and they've already reached about the end of their working life expectancy, how, then, do you pay the bills? What do you do with your life's work? 
   When you think of the Enron people who had all their pensions wrapped up in Enron stock and found out that the Enron loophole allowed for the fraud and their pension funds collapsed, many of those people that were retired had to go back to work. And some of them that stayed retired had to dramatically shorten their budget and squeeze everything down. The happy golden years of retirement didn't materialize because of something that was beyond their control. And yet we have a situation here that was beyond the control especially of the business people and the residences, and all of the region. And I'm using Cedar Rapids as an example because that's where this chart is. 
   Madam Speaker, I have here a picture of a residential area in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. And this is very, very typical. Although the report from FEMA is that essentially the debris removal and clean-up is caught up--and I don't disagree with that--when they pile this out in the middle of the street, they come along and pick it up and load it way. We don't have what I saw in Katrina, which was huge wind rows of debris that were piled out there. And sometimes you had people objecting to having the debris hauled out. That's not happening in Iowa. When people haul debris out, they put it by the edge of the street, sometimes right in the edge of the street so it's easy to pick up. It's being picked up and removed. 
   I saw the city of Palo was entirely under water. Every house in that city had suffered major damage. And they carried their furniture and their appliances and the ruined material on out into the street and began to strip out the wet drywall--which is now a common phrase. And most of that debris is all picked up. 
   This is an example of a pile waiting to be picked up. You can see it has furniture in here, it has appliances in here, it has some clothing and waste. There are pieces of lumber and boards and furniture all piled out here to be hauled out. And all of this, Madam Speaker, has got to be replaced, and it's all got to be put back again. 
   And the homeowner back here doesn't know whether there is going to be an initiative to buy this all out, whether there will be an initiative to come in and rebuild, whether there is going to be a flood insurance premium that will be too costly and it might be wiser to move on out. They don't know if they can get a building permit to go in and rebuild their house and put it back into pre-flood conditions with or without a loan, with or without a buyout, with or without a city plan, they don't know. 
   And the hardest part of being in a flood--and it isn't easy to answer all these questions--the hardest part is you can't make decisions because there are so many variables that are beyond the scope of being answered or can be answered by the local officials. But that's an example of the debris that's there last Saturday. 
   This is a relatively fresh picture. This is an example of the spirit of America and the spirit of Iowans. This is in Cedar Rapids. These buildings are all empty, they're all flooded. The high water line I'm going to guess is someplace about right here.     
   The defiance of America shows up this way, Madam Speaker. That is, you go find the largest, boldest American flag that you can find and you hang it up there for all to see, and that says,  We're going to beat this. We are coming back. We're not going to let this get us down. That is what that flag said. 
   If you look up this street off in this direction, there was flag after flag coming out from the buildings that were set up. That is the message that I am proud of. But these buildings are stripped empty now. They have been flooded out. They have all got to come back again. These are businesses that probably don't get a grant of any kind. They will have to settle for a loan, if they can qualify. And then for 30 years they can pay it back. 
   This also, Madam Speaker, is another example of along the street in Cedar Rapids. Again, Cedar Rapids is just the epicenter. This goes up and down the river valley, town after town. 
   You can see the appliances that are laid out here and the debris that has been stripped out of the homes right along the street so it's easy to pick up. Nobody is resisting here like they did in New Orleans and taking the position that the workers, the volunteers, and the cleanup crews shouldn't set foot on this ground. They are saying, I put it out here for you to pick it up. Please do so. Thanks for helping me. Let's all get to work. 
   We have some people that don't know whether they are going to have enough money to fix their house or not, but they want to do something. So they go in there and they strip it out, they clean everything out, they throw everything away that they can throw away, that they need to throw away, and fix that house so that they can start rebuilding if they come up with the money, if they get a grant, if they get a loan, and if they can come up with the materials and the contractor. 
   But that looks to me like New Orleans looked. I spent a lot of time walking the streets in New Orleans. If I would take this picture and ask the question of our friends from Louisiana, I think a lot of them would say, Oh, yeah, I saw that down south. I saw that along the gulf coast in 2005. Well, it's 2008. It's Iowa. They are still looking for some answers and looking for some relief. 
   This also is an example of what we saw for the disaster. This is a bridge that was taken down. They knew that the bridge was going to take a lot of water so they ran train cars out here, filled these train cars with stone and ballast, and I believe they said water, to put some weight on the bridge so the bridge wouldn't go out. The bridge went out anyway. 
   Here's the train cars still sitting on the bridge. This is a little bit older picture. Some of these are actually floating homes that were pushed down up against this bridge. I saw this all from the air when I flew over Cedar Rapids. 
   So that is an idea of how devastating this was when you see this kind of carnage with a railroad bridge taken out and the homes that are floated down against it. 
   This, City Central, this is an island in the middle of the Cedar River, where city hall and some administrative buildings are. This is at not quite the peak high water mark, but that shows you what happened. 
   We have, Madam Speaker, a grant system that comes primarily from FEMA that does this. It allows for residences to qualify. So a residence like this potentially could qualify for up to a $28,800 grant. That grant then can be used to refurbish and rebuild the interior of the home and put it back in its pre-flood condition. That is there for the residential homeowner. 
   We also have qualified grants to help the city out. Political subdivisions, say the city, the county, perhaps the State, and I believe the State, so that if they have damage to their buildings, they will be rebuilt. We have a Federal building that was flooded, the Federal courthouse in Cedar Rapids. It's slated for reconstruction, to be built new, but I do believe that it's going to be refurbished before we can get a new building built. That's a pretty big check to replace the building. It's also a big check to refurbish the building. 
   But my point is that political subdivisions, the institutions of government, will receive Federal dollars to be reconstructed, Madam Speaker, and the residences will receive Federal dollars to be reconstructed. Even some of our critical infrastructure can qualify. Our railroads will likely qualify in some areas, as we have in past disasters seen that our utilities qualified for grants to put power poles back. Say in the case of an ice storm that might take the power out in a large area, we provided Federal dollars to go to those utilities, put the poles back up, the lines, and at least take some of the sting out for the utility companies. 
   So it's not unprecedented for us to cross a line, a line from a residence here, a line that includes municipal government and county and State government here, a line that includes a railroad bridge here, a line that includes utilities occasionally. All of those things qualify for Federal grant. 
   The only people that we're asking to go without any kind of a grant in this are the people that are paying the taxes on everything else, and that's the businesses in the communities. So if you run a business in Cedar Rapids, Iowa City, in the valleys of the Cedar or Iowa River or the Mississippi River Valley, likely below the confluence of the two rivers in Oakville, if you run a business in those areas and your business is flooded, chances are you're going to be applying for an SBA loan, if you qualify. If you're a large business, you may not. 
   But there is no provision in law that allows the Federal Government to step in and provide a grant for the small businesses that are as devastated, in fact, in many cases more devastated, than the residences are themselves. 
   I don't know that we have got this entirely backwards, Madam Speaker, but I will submit that if you have the healthy, economic, social, and cultural ecology of a community, it was the evolution of that community that was formed around the commerce in the first place. It's likely somebody set up a trading post. Maybe that trading post was on the Cedar River or the Iowa River and then they traded furs through there and the trading post began to sell goods and then, after a while, services, and they built a residential house. They probably slept in the store when they first moved there. Then they built a home to live in and then they needed more services. As the businesses expanded, they justified the people that would be building more businesses around them. They needed a place to live. So they built homes. It wasn't that somebody moved to Cedar Rapids 150 or 180 years ago and decided that they just wanted to live there like a vacation home, Madam Speaker. It was the first people that built the towns and the cities in the Midwest at least and in the United States, for that matter, they set up the businesses first and the residences came next. Then they had to have government to provide order and the government buildings were built. 
   Sometimes it was the transportation links like the railroads that caused the towns to be built along them, especially at the intersections of the railroads, and where we had the intersections of the rivers, which were the flow of commerce back in the day. All of this was surrounded and came together because somebody went out there and established a business because there was an opportunity to make some profit. The residences were built around the businesses. 
   And so we have our priorities in a condition where they need to be rearranged. Our priorities, I believe, should be this. Recognize that the source of the taxes are the businesses that earn the wealth and pay the taxes and hire the workers to pay the wages so that people can afford to live in the houses that they live in. 
   So we here in our government response to disasters of, let me say, epic proportions, help out the residences and the railroad and the political subdivisions but not the businesses. 
   I have legislation I have introduced in the Congress this week, Madam Speaker, and the number of the legislation escapes my memory for the moment, but what it does, it goes in and amends the Stafford Act. The Stafford Act is the language that allows FEMA to provide grants to residences and this allows businesses with 25 or fewer employees to qualify for disaster relief grants in the same fashion, on up to the $28,800 limit that is there today in statute for residences. 
   This, I think, is a change that is a long time coming. It's been endorsed by all of the Iowa House delegation. We are asking to go out then to the Representatives from the other States that are affected by this flood, asking them  to sign on as well. The idea being this: Small businesses can perhaps be put back on their feet very quickly if their damage is such that a limited grant, and I know for some of these businesses, it won't amount to a lot, and some will turn up their nose and say, You're not really helping me enough. But it's something and it's what we can do. It may in fact be all we can do. I don't think that it's more than we can do. But, for me, if we are going to justify grants to residences and grants to railroads and municipalities, then I don't know how we say no to the businesses that are funding it all and the reason for it all in the first place. 
   So what is the point in fixing up homes and providing residences for people that won't have jobs in the businesses that are closed? Why is Cedar Rapids dark? Why is there not a plan, a plan that they can at least count on, and if the answer is no, then it's no, and they can make their plans accordingly. 
   But right now, under the current statute that we have, the answer is, well, maybe. And there will be some decisions made later. The city will work in cooperation with the county, with the State, who will work in cooperation with the Federal Government. I endorse all of that. The working groups that have been put together look to me like they are good people, working in a good cause, but we still don't have the definitive response. 
   So I am encouraging this, the adoption of the language to amend the Stafford Act so that small businesses with 25 or fewer employees qualify for grant relief in the same fashion that residences do, up to $28,800, and that can be enough to keep a business open, it can be enough to refurbish the inside of the businesses. 
   I walked into a number of them on Saturday. Some are under reconstruction and some are just sitting there. Some have been stripped out but they don't have a plan to put it back together. That is what we are working with, Madam Speaker. 
   We have got to move on this. If Speaker Pelosi is not willing to move the tax relief package that is drafted and introduced by Senator Grassley and endorsed by Senator Harkin, the package that was good enough for Katrina and Rita, it should be good enough for Iowa floods, Madam Speaker. 
   This $123.5 billion that flowed through to Katrina relief, we are looking right now at $2.65 billion for the Midwest flood relief, which includes a number of States, including parts Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois, Missouri, Arkansas. Those States come to mind right away. 
   We have got to move some relief, and this Congress is ready to adjourn for August, the August break, by late Thursday night or sometime on Friday. We will go home for 6 weeks and during that entire 6 weeks that this Congress doesn't at least send a signal that we are willing to step up and help the people that are in distress, then if we do not do that, we have failed them. They need a definitive response from this Congress. You have to be able to plan on something. 
   I believe that the people have performed well in Iowa. One of the things that they said was that they just went out and worked. They didn't ask for anything. I have talked to the FEMA people that have been around the country in these disasters for a career--and they were constantly complimentary of the way Iowans have responded to this. I hear anecdotes about Iowans that will say, Yes, I could use some relief, but don't stop and help me because my neighbor needs it worse than I do. Go help my neighbor. 
   It's been neighbor helping neighbor. What has been missing here is not volunteers, not good cheer, because there is a smile on their face in a lot of the cases no matter how the dire circumstances are, no matter how much adrenaline has drained off, and no matter how much they look through that tunnel looking for the light at the other end. No matter how much that is, their spirit has been strong. 
   But the joke came up, Well, we didn't have any protesters, we didn't have any looters, and we didn't have much media. So if we'd had protester, looters, and media, maybe we would have had some of this legislation moved by now. Maybe Speaker Pelosi would have had a little more sensitivity. But these polite and quiet people, these respectful people, these salt-of-the-earth people, as Congressman Loebsack referenced earlier tonight, haven't been beating the drum, they haven't been demanding relief. They have just been doing their work and pulling their end together.     
   It reminds me, Madam Speaker, of our debate on the Medicare reimbursement language that we fought through here in this Congress back in I believe it was 2003, perhaps 2004. When one calculates the relief, or the funding for Medicare patients, the per-patient funding for Iowa was last in the Nation. Medicare reimbursements, last in the Nation. Of the 50 States, Iowa ranks 50th. Before we passed that legislation, Iowa ranked 50th, and it was a long ways up to 49th. It is more than a coincidence that Louisiana ranks first. They ranked first then. We passed the reform relief, and they ranked first afterwards. 
   So the analysis goes this way. Back in the seventies, when Richard Nixon imposed a wage and price freeze, Iowa health care providers honored that wage and price freeze, so they didn't give increases in wages. They lost some people to other States that didn't respect that and gave wages anyway, but Iowa respected that. 
   There is another situation. That is Iowans don't use health care services with the frequency and regularity that they do in Louisiana, for example. So, historically, at least, Louisiana didn't honor the wage and price freeze imposed by President Nixon, and they utilized the medical services more regularly than those in Iowa. 
   So the formulas that were put in place that were based upon frequency of usage and cost reflected the two things: More wages were being paid in Louisiana than Iowa because they didn't freeze their wages, and they used the health care services more. Those two indicators, multiplied over the years from back in the early seventies to today, where the reimbursement rates in Louisiana were far higher, highest in the Nation, and Iowa, lowest in the Nation. We were 50th, and a long ways up to 49th. We have made some marginal improvements in that. We are still 50th, it is just not so far up to 49th. 
   But what happened is Iowans not using health care services is similar to Iowans not demanding services from this Federal Government. It was said by the former chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, here is how it works: Iowans will not go to the doctor or the hospital sometimes when they need to. Sometimes they will stay home and die in bed instead. So they aren't running up health care costs, because they are independent and want to be self-reliant and take care of themselves. But that former chairman of the Ways and Means Committee said, but Louisianans are a little different. They will wake up in the morning and feel good and go to the doctor and ask them why. 
   Well, if those two things are right, and they are just used to describe the stark differences and not meant to be a particular representation of the people in either State, because we know there are outstanding people in all States, that is the kind of people though that we have here in Iowa right now that have been underwater and seen floods of epic proportions; the kind of people that will stay home and die in bed; the kind of people that won't go to the streets and demonstrate; the kind of people that aren't criticizing the Federal, State, county or city government for not doing enough. They are not criticizing their Governor or Members of Congress or their Senators. They are not criticizing FEMA in an intense, significant way. They are saying, just give me some answers so I can plan, and I will do what I have to do. And if I have lost my entire life's work and all I have left is a chance to go on Social Security, I am going to figure out how to adjust to that. But give me some real answers. 
   I think this Congress needs to give some real answers, and I think we need to expand the Stafford Act to include small businesses so they qualify for grants in the same fashion that residences do. And if we can't do that, I don't know how I can justify the grants that go to the residences.  
   The businesses are essential in the entire economic ecosystem of the communities, because if it weren't for the businesses, the residences wouldn't be there. If it weren't for the businesses, the railroad wouldn't need to be there. If it weren't for the businesses, there won't be anything there. 
   Nobody is going to go out and move out in the countryside and just live there and live on the land, because, sooner or later, somebody has to start a business. They are the key, and they are the source of at least 80 percent of the new employment in America. We need to get them on their feet quickly. 
   One of the smart people in the meeting on Saturday is a city council member who is also a CPA who said, these businesses that have taken the flood losses have been kicked into a business startup mode. The risk of failure in a new business startup is significantly greater than it is in a business that is established. Even though these businesses were established, for the most part they have lost so much capital and they have got such a deep hole to come back out of, they are essentially startup businesses. 
   So they don't need to have a 30 year liability. That doesn't help their cash flow. And, by the way, these losses that they have are losses that aren't going to be funded. It isn't like a new investment that you put in when you go in and replace the floor and the furnishing and appliances and the walls and the wiring in your business, and the inventory. It isn't like you have added on to a production line and you kick up your gross receipts and help your bottom line. This is a great big hole that has to be filled in the equity that has been created often through a lifetime of work. That is what is up. 
   I am asking the leadership in this Congress to quickly go to work with us, and let's get the tax package passed that all of the Members of the Iowa delegation in the House and Senate support. Let's get some relief there. Let's provide some grant money for the businesses that all the members of the Iowa delegation in the House of Representatives support, the amendment of the Stafford Act. Let's send a message from this Congress that there is hope to the people that live in the city that has seen more water than ever before, a city that is indistinguishable from New Orleans at the peak of the recovery of its disaster, a city that is the second largest city in the State of Iowa, as an example, which represents the cities up and down those valleys of the Cedar, the Iowa, the Turkey River and others, and along the Mississippi River Valley. 
   All this needs to be done by this Congress. When one goes and looks at the example of the appropriations that have taken place to try to lift the people in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, along the Gulf Coast and parts of Texas out of their Katrina and Rita disasters, we can do the same for people in the Midwest. Not just Iowa, Madam Speaker, but also across the river, up the river and down the river. We need to do the right thing. 
   Once we cross the line and make the commitment, we need to do a balanced commitment and help these businesses out, as well as the residences. And it needs to be a definitive response, a response that they can count on, and one that build their future on. 
   That is what I am asking of this Congress. That is what I am asking of our leadership. And I am asking for the cooperation across the aisle between the Democrats and the Republicans. I am going to ask my colleagues in this Congress to come down to this floor and raise this 
   issue and join me in the next opportunity we have to do a special order together. 
   That, Madam Speaker, concludes this subject matter. I believe that being this close to our adjournment time, I am going to just fit in one more subject quickly for the matter of information purposes for the Congressional Record. 
   It is something that is continually distorted on the floor as we have these energy debates. The statement is consistently made, why would you drill in ANWR? It will take 10 years to get any oil out of ANWR. Then that moves up to 15 years, and then 20 years I heard last week; 20 years to get oil out of ANWR. 
   Well, we passed ANWR legislation out this House not that long ago, I am going to say not 20 years ago, but about 4 or 5 years ago. Had that made it to the President's desk, instead of having been filibustered in the Senate by the same party that opposes energy expansion in this Congress, we would have oil coming out of ANWR today. 
   I was signed up to go up to Alaska to open up the oil fields in the North Slope of Alaska. I was signed up to do that in 1970, and as I prepared to go up there, there was a court injunction that was filed. That court injunction in 1970 froze the development of the Alaska North Slope oil fields, and as it froze that development, there was no development that took place. It took until 1973 to open up those oil fields. I actually reported that to be 1972. I was operating from memory. It was actually 1973. I went back to get some of those records, and here is what I find. 
   The court injunction stopped the development of the Alaska pipelines in 1970, and it froze that development with an injunction that prohibited their development until 1973. 
   In 1973, the Congressman for Alaska, who is here in this Congress still, Congressman DON YOUNG, introduced legislation, because the environmentalists had successfully blocked access to a massive supply of crude oil that this country needed. Mdand this legislation was introduced and became law, and I see the date here, and I believe this is the date that it was enacted, but I am not certain, and it is November 16, 1973, when legislation was passed to open up Alaska for oil, and it reads like this. There had to be legislation that blocked all of the litigation, all the environmentalist, extremist lawsuits, and allowed for the development of the oil fields. 
   It says in this piece of legislation, Public Law 95-153, November 16, 1973, Section 203(a): ``The purpose of this title is to ensure that, because of the extensive governmental studies already made of this project and the national interest in early delivery of North Slope oil to domestic markets, the trans-Alaska oil pipeline be constructed promptly without further administrative or judicial delay or impediment. To accomplish this purpose, it is the intent of the Congress to exercise its constitutional powers to the fullest extent in the authorizations and directions herein made and in limiting judicial review of the actions taken pursuant thereto.'' 
   In other words, Article III, Section 2, court stripping said you don't have any jurisdiction to hear any cases that are going to block the development of the North Slope of Alaska, the right-of-way roadway to go from Fairbanks north up to there, nor the about 850 miles of pipeline that was built from milepost zero up on the North Slope at what is known as Dead Horse access on down to Port Valdez. 
   Reading again from Public Law 93-153, ``The actions taken pursuant to this title which relate to the construction and completion of the pipeline system and to the applications filed in connection therewith necessary to the pipelines' operation at full capacity as described in the final environmental impact statement of the Department of Interior shall be taken without further action under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.'' 
   Congress said enough with the litigation. We want the energy out of the North Slope. Environmentalists said, you will destroy the ecosystem. What happened? Article III, Section 2, stripping, said courts, you don't get to hear any more cases. This is going to go forward, because Congress says so. 
   This Congress can say so to open up ANWR the same way, the same ecosystem. That is right, neighbors. It takes 74 miles of pipeline to be added to connect it to the 850 miles or so of Alaska pipeline that is there. 
   This legislation, November 16, 1973, opened it up. We had to build the road. We had to build the pipeline. We had to drill the wells. We had to put the feeder tubes together. We had to get it to the terminal, get all of that done. And 3 years later, by our calculation, actually 35 months later, crude oil came out of the pipeline in Valdez. 
   Now, if that can happen back in 1973, with the technology we have today, who would believe that we can't drill ANWR, build a 74 mile pipeline and get that oil coming out of that pipeline at Port Valdez in a lot less than 10 years, and a far lot less than 20 years. I would submit it is easily less than 3 years. 
   This Congress has vacillated on this subject matter. We can't get a vote out  of this Speaker because they don't believe that we ought to have more energy in the marketplace. I believe we should. I believe that it is the law of supply and demand. 
   We need more energy into the marketplace of all kinds. We need to drill ANWR; we need to drill the Outer Continental Shelf; we need to drill the non-national park public lands; we need to open up the natural gas, the vast supplies we have, about 420 trillion cubic feet on the Outer Continental Shelf; we need clean burning coal, and lots of it; and we need to take the oil out of the coal shale in the heart of the west, in the Rockies. 
   We need more nuclear, and this Congress blocked access to another location for uranium, the last place that I know we can go to. We need to expand our nuclear. And, yes, we need wind and we need solar and geothermal. Those are the only three sources that were not met with vigorous opposition. But those three sources altogether, wind, solar and geothermal, only comprise 0.74 of 1 percent of the overall energy consumption in the United States. My friends on this side of the aisle, that really don't have a plan except to shut down access to energy, would want to take those three little pieces and expand them into 100 percent of the new energy supply for the United States and then say, well, we want to be energy independent. 
   Now, how are you going to do that? It is not possible to do so, unless we expand and grow the size of the energy pie, produce more of every kind of energy that we use, in an environmentally safe fashion, add another piece to the pie called energy conservation, and take that 72 percent of the energy that we are consuming, 72 percent of the energy we are consuming is the energy that we are producing, we need to expand the 72 percent to 100 percent to be energy independent. 
   We can do it. We must believe. We must do it in all ways, and we need to act now before it is too late and our wealth is transferred overseas to the Middle East, to people that don't like us all that much. 
   Madam Speaker, I thank you for your indulgence and the privilege, and I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (EMPLOYEE VERIFICATION AMENDMENT ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Thank you, Mr. Smith, for your long work on immigration issues. I often come across legislation that was put in place during the nineties in particular and find out what kind of wisdom was there. 
   I want to also thank the Chair of the Immigration Subcommittee and the support on both sides of the aisle for bringing this 5-year reauthorization of E-Verify to the floor. But I especially want to thank Ken Calvert. It is a rare legislator that has the vision to put something in place that has the legacy that has already been created by E-Verify. His face and his name will be forever identified with this policy, which I think is the smartest, most technologically adaptive, and the most useful tool that we have for employers that want to hire legal workers in America. 
   I look at this and I think, this is a reauthorization. It is a status quo. I would have liked to have had an opportunity to upgrade E-Verify, because we know a lot of things now that we didn't know when it was put in place. 
   One of the things that we know are 98.6 percent of the names that are submitted in through E-Verify on the computer database; and, by the way, I have it in my office and I have run it and operated it and I am familiar with its inner workings in a way--98.6 percent of the first requests are approved. Remaining in that 1.4 percent are people who are not authorized to work in the United States and that very small piece of the database that does need to be upgraded. 99.9 percent of those that are born in the United States and are American citizens and are legal to work here are approved the first time through. 
   So that remains in those statistics those who aren't authorized to work, who may be here illegally, or those who are here legally that aren't authorized to work. And the balance of that is mostly people who have gotten married and women who have not changed their name and the database doesn't match. USCIS has brought that up to speed here within the last several months and set it up so that their database search goes out to two different categories. It looks for those name changes that have to be cleaned up. And the other are naturalized citizens. Sometimes the paperwork of naturalized citizens doesn't catch up in time, and there has been a little delay gap that has caused a little bit of error. That gap has been narrowed substantially by I think a good technological move by USCIS. 
   What I would have liked to have seen is that we reauthorize E-Verify and provide that employers can simply check those prospective employees and make it a condition that E-Verify could be used with a job offer. Not hire the person and wait for the answer in the 8 days to come back but make a job offer conditional to an E-Verify approval. And I believe an employer should be able to use E-Verify for current employees. 
   Those two changes would have gone a long way towards allowing an employer to verify that their entire employee base is legal. Otherwise, under the circumstances that we have, an employer is compelled to hire someone and then find out if they are legal. I think that is the wrong message to send. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (EMPLOYEE VERIFICATION AMENDMENT ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Texas. 
   I support this reauthorization, but I submit that we can do better. When you require an employer in the United States to hire someone blindly as to whether they will be a legal or an illegal employee, and then after they hire them and put them on the payroll and set them up for the salary and benefits package, then they get to put the request in to go out through the Internet database, search the Department of Human Services' database, the Social Security Administration's database, and have it come back verified or not verified, that is the wrong side of this equation. I want it on the right side. I want an employer to be able to say, I didn't hire anyone illegally. But we put them in a bad position with this. 
   We could have done better. We could have upgraded. But this is a very, very good tool. To add to this, I am hopeful that and do expect that we will see USCIS link to E-Verify the digital photographs of those who are here working on a green card and those kind of cases. If we are able to do that, then we can verify that the face of the individual who presents the documents actually matches the documents of the individual. That is another improvement that comes along hopefully administratively. 
   Additionally, I will add to this that I am extra invested in E-Verify, because I have introduced legislation and will reintroduce it again this week that is called the New IDEA Act. That lets the IRS come into this mix, deny Federal deductibility for wages and benefits paid to illegals, gives safe harbor to employers that use E-Verify, and now it puts together the team and requires the IRS to communicate with the Social Security Administration and communicate with the Department of Homeland Security.  
   We have the tools to do this. We can work and cooperate and coordinate together with our different departments of government in the same fashion that a company would work and cooperate and coordinate with their different departments of their company. We are not doing that yet. We are taking a step in the right direction, and I am very glad to hear the bipartisan support that we have for E-Verify. 
   I again congratulate Ken Calvert for a work in progress, well started, not yet well done. I urge adoption of this, and I appreciate the extension and the reauthorization. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (EMPLOYEE VERIFICATION AMENDMENT ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, again, I thank the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Smith). 
   First I wanted to say that the narrow gap that we have in efficiency that has received some criticism, if you don't use a list, you can't improve the list. Using the list improves the list. And as good as it is, as close as it is, and the improvements that have been brought forth, we can get it to become among the best lists in the country if we just use E-Verify, and I expect that will be the case.  
   As I look at the overall immigration picture, and we talked about enforcement and how effective is enforcement. There was an announcement that came out today, a press conference this afternoon, I think about 2:30, that rolled out a study done by Citizenship Immigration Services, CIS, Dr. Steve Camarota. And as I read through the report, and I am speaking from memory, not from a document, that report, I believe, references this way. Since last August, by their study, 1.3 million illegal aliens have self-deported, have gone back to their home countries, have left America. 1.3 million. And the analysis that is there predicts that at the present rate of self-deportation, and that is what it is, that we will see the illegal population in the United States be cut in half if that pace continues. That is a huge accomplishment. 
   And the people that said, well, we can't deport them all, didn't understand that they got here somehow. They got here on their own, and many of them have now decided to go back on their own. And here are the reasons. 
   The first one is enforcement; that ICE has begun to enforce immigration law, and as they have begun to do so, and it is the same time, in conjunction with an economy that doesn't have as much demand for lower skilled laborers. And then additionally, the publicity that surrounds the more intense enforcement that we have seen has put that all together in a package that is saying to some people that are here illegally that it is better for them to go home. 
   Now I have argued for a long time the administration should enforce the law. I have never believed that they enforced it consistently enough nor aggressively enough. But this is an exact response to this. The Swift raids in Iowa, the Postville raids in Iowa, ICE doing their job. And if ICE does not do their job, we don't have this 1.3 million. 
   And additionally, during the Eisenhower administration, they got about a 10-1 self-deportation for every one that was picked up and deported. This is a 7-1 self-deportation. That is a real difference and a real change. 
   I support this. We can do better. And I urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - September 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, it is a privilege to be recognized to speak here on the floor of the United States Congress and have the opportunity to address you--while I understand that there are--many of our Members overhear this conversation that we are having and so do the American people. That is the important part about this; it is the people's House and the people need to be heard. 
   And I would take us back to, Mr. Speaker, the people were heard. They were heard on the immigration issue. They were heard on that issue twice in this year, in this legislative year, Mr. Speaker. And that is, even though we had a great number of immigration hearings before the Immigration Subcommittee here in the House of Representatives, and where I am ranking member on the Immigration Subcommittee we listened to dozens and dozens of witnesses that testified across the breadth of this issue of immigration that has been on the front of the minds of the American people. It has been in the front of our minds for the last about 2 years, and it becomes part of debate in every conversation that has to do with American policy. 
   Certainly, being a Member of Congress from the State of Iowa where we are the first in the Nation caucus, we have a number of presidential candidates, both Democrats and Republicans, that are in that State much of the time. It is a rare night that the shades aren't closed and there isn't at least one presidential candidate that is spending the night in Iowa after having spent the day and will spend the next day there. In fact, just at the Iowa State game last Saturday, I ran into two presidential candidates just random, not planned, just by the fact of the circumstances. They hear about the immigration issue on a daily basis, wherever they might go across the State of Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, and beyond. The Presidential candidates are getting an earful from the American people. And the reason is, the American people understand that they are going to have to defend this central pillar of American exceptionalism called the rule of law. They rose up to defend it when, I call it, the comprehensive amnesty bill was brought before the Senate this year. We didn't bring a large bill before the House. I don't know if we are actually going to bring one. But twice it was brought before the Senate, and each time the American people rose up and they sent e-mails and they sent faxes and they made phone calls and they stopped in and visited their Senators in their district offices back in their States and also came out here to Washington to go into the Senate offices on the other side of the Capitol dome. 
   The presence of the American people, the intensity of the message that they delivered to our Senators said, we don't want amnesty. And however you define amnesty, the American people know what it is. And so what I have done is, Mr. Speaker, is I have brought the definition of ``amnesty'' to the floor of the House of Representatives so we can be talking about the same thing, because what I hear from the American people is the same thing that I believe, and I believe this: 
   The rule of law is sacrosanct and must be protected. We can't suspend the rule of law because it creates an inconvenience for an individual or a family or a class of people. 
   It is kind of like the Constitution itself in a way. The Constitution defines and protects our rights, and it is a unique document and it is the oldest document of its kind in the world. The oldest continuously functioning, surviving, effective Constitution in the world is ours, ratified in 1789. And that Constitution sets out parameters, guarantees individual rights, establishes the rule of law, determines where those laws are actually passed, here in this Congress or those responsibilities that are left to the States or to the people     
   And yet when we disagree with the results of a constitutional decision, if the American people decide that we like our Constitution, we revere our Constitution and the parameters that are established in this Constitution, Mr. Speaker, if we want to change it, there are provisions in this Constitution to amend it. 
   We respect this Constitution as being sacrosanct; that it means what it says, and it means what the text of the Constitution said as understood at the time of ratification. And when we amend this Constitution, it's a pretty high bar, but the provision is in here because we are going to hold that standard and adhere to the language that's here because we understand that that's what holds this civilization and this society together. And if we want to amend it, then we go through the process of amending, and it has been done a number of times. It's a high bar. 
   But that standard of respect for that profound rule of the Constitution is the same standard that we need to have with respect for the profound viability of the rule of law. When we ignore laws, they're undermined. If we ignored the Constitution, if we simply decided I  don't like the results of the language that's here, I'm going to disregard this Constitution and cast it asunder and operate in a fashion that we see fit, if we do that, the Constitution is systemically destroyed. It would be destroyed by our failure to respect it. It would be destroyed by a Supreme Court that didn't respect the text of the Constitution. It actually has been undermined, in my opinion, by a number of the decisions of the Supreme Court when they didn't respect the text of the Constitution, its original intent and its original understanding. 
   And if the administration, the Department of Justice, if the people in this Congress, if the people in America don't have respect for the rule of law in the same fashion we must have respect for the Constitution itself, then the disrespect for the rule of law, the ignoring of the law, the failure to enforce the law, the turning a blind eye, the whisper, that's okay, the people that break the law because it's inconvenient to them, all of you, Mr. Speaker, all Americans who ignore the rule of law undermine it, erode it and erode that central pillar of American exceptionalism, the rule of law. 
   Think of this as a huge pillar that's been established by our founders. Think of building a large office building or a shining city on a hill or a castle. What would you put it on? You'd put it on a foundation. You would drill down to bedrock and you would build your foundation for a shining city on the hill or a castle or a large office building. You would build that foundation down to bedrock. And if you had to hold it together with a central pillar, build it all on the strength of one pillar, it would be a large pillar drilled to bedrock, and that pillar would be the rule of law. 
   There are other pillars, too, that you'd use to hold up the corners. Our Christian faith, the Judeo-Christian values, our family values, marriage, free enterprise, free enterprise capitalism, property rights, those things all are corner pillars that hold up the outside. 
   But the central pillar is the rule of law. And the things that we do in this country that disrespect that central pillar of American exceptionalism, the rule of law, erode it like it would erode a concrete or a marble pillar of a bridge, for example. 
   And all of us that might chip away by disregarding the law, by disrespecting the law, by failing to enforce the law, by turning a blind eye, by allowing entire classes of people to ignore and defy the law, those things become a corrosive agent that erodes that central pillar of American exceptionalism, that rule of law. 
   That's why it's so important that we adhere to the law. And if we don't like the law, then we need to come, Mr. Speaker, to the floor of this House of Representatives, offer legislation, offer amendments to the legislation, perfect that legislation in a full debate process here, and amend the law. Not ignore it. 
   And now I'm hearing from the administration that to not pass comprehensive immigration reform, which I refer to as a comprehensive amnesty plan, brings about de facto amnesty, in fact, amnesty, amnesty in reality. That's the language that's coming out of our administration and has been for the last couple of months since the people last rose up and drove another stake in the heart of the comprehensive amnesty plan. 
   Well, to not pass comprehensive immigration reform does not mean that there has to be a de facto amnesty. First we need to define what amnesty is. I have put this poster out here and this poster defines amnesty. 
   We've had many debates with the American people on what amnesty actually is. Presidential candidate after presidential candidate, politician after politician, Senator after Senator, Congressman after Congressman will tell you, I'm opposed to amnesty. And they will say that because they know the American people are opposed to amnesty. And in some of their cases they have a strong conviction that they're opposed to amnesty, Mr. Speaker. But that's not in all cases. 
   But in most cases they want to avoid the criticism of being a proponent for amnesty. And so to do that they say, I'm opposed to amnesty. The thing that they don't do is define amnesty. If you can't get them to define amnesty, then you have a pretty good suspicion that maybe they're not really against amnesty in all of its shapes and forms. 
   And so I've put up here the definition, after a careful study, of amnesty itself. Amnesty, to grant amnesty, Mr. Speaker, is to pardon immigration law-breakers and reward them with the objective of their crime. 
   Now, a pardon for immigration law-breakers, and generally an amnesty is a pardon to a class of people, a group of people. Whereas the President might pardon an individual, he has powers to do that, and that happens. Often it happened at the end of Bill Clinton's second term when he pardoned a large number of people for a variety of reasons. 
   Well, this is a pardon for a class of people. To define that pardon a little bit, class of people, would be the immigration law-breakers. All those people that came to the United States, both illegally, and those who came here legally and overstayed their visas, found themselves unlawfully present in the United States, or misrepresented their status here in the United States, maybe as a lawful immigrant without the right to work in the United States but misrepresented themselves in order to work and earn money. For whatever reason, they have broken immigration law. If they allowed their visa to expire and stayed in the United States, they've broken immigration law. If they came into the United States illegally, if they came here with contraband, if they came here and misrepresented themselves, if they worked when they didn't have a permit to work, if they came on a student visa and took a job, if they came on a visitor's visa and took a job, they've broken immigration law. To give them amnesty is to pardon them, those people who broke our immigration law. And that's really enough for that amnesty definition, but I thought I'd be a little more generous because this defines then what the Senate tried to do, what the majority in this House of Representatives seems to be seeking to do, and that is, not only grant them a pardon, not only grant them amnesty, the people that have broken our immigration laws, but also reward them with the objective of their crime or crimes. Pardon immigration law-breakers, reward them with the objective of their crimes. 
   Now, I define that that way because some will say, well, reward them with a job. Some came here for a job. All did not. And, in fact, of the 12 million that the government admits are here, about 7 million of them are working. About 5 million of them are not. So it's clear that 42 percent of them who come here, even for a job, are not working. And some are keeping house, some are not in the work force in one fashion or another. 
   But I want to point out, Mr. Speaker, that we don't get one worker per illegal immigrant, one who comes across that border just for a job. Seven out of 12 are working. Five out of 12 are not. Fifty-eight percent are working, 42 percent are not. That's how it breaks down out of those that come into the United States. 
   What was their objective? Some was to get a better job, coming here for a better life. Some came in here with illegal drugs on them with the willful intent to smuggle those drugs into the United States, take them to the next level of the distribution chain, sell them, pocket the money. Some came in here illegally, dropped off their contraband and went back to get another load. 
   And that goes on and on and on. Every single day, Mr. Speaker, there are people coming into the United States illegally carrying illegal drugs to the tune of $65 billion a year in illegal drugs coming across our southern border. That's 90 percent of the illegal drugs, $65 billion worth. And I'll perhaps come back to that. 
   But I wanted to drive this point in, Mr. Speaker. What is amnesty? And when a presidential candidate takes a position and says, I'm opposed to amnesty, I believe, Mr. Speaker, that the public should ask them, do you agree with STEVE KING's definition of amnesty? If not, what is your definition of amnesty? Do you agree that amnesty is to pardon immigration law-breakers and reward them with the objective of their crime? Or do you have another definition that allows you to grant amnesty and say that it's not amnesty? For example, if you require them to leave the United States and go, touch back to their home country, or go to  their embassy and sign up and then go into the work force, wouldn't you consider that to be amnesty? Do you think that you're waived from the responsibility of declaring it amnesty if you ask someone to pay a fine? 
   That's the Flake/Gutierrez bill, the bill that we held a hearing on. It will be 2 weeks ago tomorrow, Mr. Speaker, a large hearing on the largest amnesty bill that this Congress has seriously considered. We had witness after witness come forward, and they wanted to testify that this wasn't amnesty in that bill. It wasn't amnesty because it was going to require them to pay a fine. And I think in that bill it's a $2,500 fine. 
   Well, the going rate for a coyote to bring someone into the United States, and the report that comes back to me is, I'm sure it works cheaper but someplace in that $1,500 to $2,500 category is in the main of the going rate to be illegally brought into the United States and pay a coyote to do so. So the fine they'd ask to pay is equivalent to the freight that you would pay a coyote to bring you in illegally. That's what they would sell citizenship for, a path to citizenship. Not guaranteed. I'll concede that point to the other side. But it's not guaranteed because if you commit a crime, if you get in trouble with the law, if you're not on good behavior, if you don't at least sit through some English classes, then they don't want to give you citizenship. 
   But those provisions that are written in there are not provisions that are a higher standard that we'd ask of someone who came into the United States legally, someone who came here with a visa, someone who acquired a legal green card, someone who, in that 5-year program, could find themselves taking the oath of citizenship. 
   Another one of the allegations that's made is, well, if you're against this comprehensive immigration reform, they don't dare call it amnesty, and they wouldn't call someone who is here illegally a criminal, or they would not call them an illegal immigrant or an illegal alien. All of those terms, however accurate they are, are anathema to the people who want to pass their comprehensive immigration reform, which is comprehensive amnesty. 
   No, Mr. Speaker, they won't use those terms. They say undocumented immigrant who simply is here looking for a better life. True for some of them, Mr. Speaker, but certainly not true for all of them. 
   So we face the systemic devolution of the rule of law here in the United States, the rule of law that's founded upon this Constitution, that's written in the U.S. Code, and something that is established there as a majority of the House of Representatives and a majority of the Senate, and then signed by the President of the United States, and then the American people shut down the switchboards in the United States Senate because they oppose amnesty. 
   The American people, Mr. Speaker, are with me on this definition of amnesty, to pardon immigration law-breakers and reward them with the objective of their crime. 
   And so today, we're involved in a political dynamic, and the political dynamic is this, that the people over on the majority side of the aisle, for the most part, see a political leverage gain if they can grant amnesty to the 12 to 20 or more million people that are in these United States illegally. 
   The people on the other side of the aisle, some of them, see an economic advantage and maybe a political advantage working with those who have gained an economic advantage by hiring the cheap labor. And so they say, this economy will collapse if we don't have the cheap labor that comes from, they will say, immigration, immigration, immigration. 
   When I ask them to define the difference between legal and illegal immigration they have a little trouble there, too, Mr. Speaker, because they have constantly, for the last 2 to 3 and more years, sought to blur the distinctions between legal and illegal. 
   And they will say that those of us that want to secure our borders and re-establish the rule of law and end automatic citizenship for babies that happen to be born to illegal mothers on U.S. soil, they will accuse us of all being against legal immigration.     
   But truthfully, those who undermine the rule of law, those who are for the open borders have brought about this debate that has tried to blur the two together, and because they are blurred together, we can't get at the real subject matter of how to establish a good, sound legal immigration policy because of 12 to 20 million illegals in the country. It's kind of like when you apply for a college education and there are only so many desks available in the classrooms, only so many slots available. Let's just say 20 million slots for immigration are filled up by people that broke American law to get here. That's 20 million slots that we can't give out of this Congress to somebody that respects our law. And that is not just a policy of American immigration that should be set by Congress, and the Constitution defines immigration as a responsibility for Congress to set. It's not just that. And it's not just that the people of America are denied the opportunity to establish immigration policy, because they are. But it's that 12 to 20 million or more people who have elected to break American laws are now sitting in those desks, taking up those slots, filling up the available space that we might have to bring a legal immigration policy. 
   So this immigration policy is out of our control. It is out of control here on the floor of the United States Congress, Mr. Speaker. It is out of control in the United States Senate. It's not within the control of the President of the United States or administration. It's out of our control. It's out of the control, out of the hands of the people of America. They shut down amnesty in the Senate by shutting down the phones, but another reason it is out of control is because people from other countries have broken our laws and have come here and every one that did so took away a piece of our ability to set our own policy here on the floor of the United States Congress. 
   So I will submit, Mr. Speaker, that the people I know, the people that align themselves with me, those who will stand up and speak for border enforcement and the rule of law and shutting off illegal immigration coming into this country, are not opposed to immigration. I don't know anyone that is opposed to legal immigration, smart immigration, and one day I will put this up on a poster too, Mr. Speaker, but an immigration policy that is designed to enhance the economic, the social, and the cultural well-being of the United States of America. That's the policy that we have a responsibility to deliver to the American people. And we do not have a policy to a foreign country that reflects a responsibility to them to relieve the poverty, the pain, the suffering that goes on in other countries in the world. We can reach out with some of our compassion, but we simply do not have an obligation to absorb the poverty in the world. In fact, we don't have the ability to do that. 
   What we do know is that this lifeboat, America, this wonderful Nation that God has gifted us with the responsibility to do the best we can within the parameters of the Declaration, the Constitution, the rule of law and those pillars that I mentioned, all of those things, we have a responsibility to preserve and protect this American way of life. 
   Think of America as a huge lifeboat. This lifeboat has got to have a captain. It has got to have a course chartered. It has to be steered. There have to be people pulling on the oars. And there have to be people that are unfurling the sails and swabbing the decks and down in the engine room and making this entire lifeboat of ours function and function properly. And if we go sailing off on a zig-zag course or drift with the winds up onto the shoals, eventually we will have so many passengers aboard this lifeboat that we will sink the lifeboat. At some point we can't function. The engine room doesn't work. We can't chart our course any longer because the load of humanity has gotten so great, and the process of training them and bringing them on board with our crew has gotten so far behind that we can't get it up to speed. 
   How many can we bring into America and still function? How many can we bring into America and maintain this overall greater American culture that we are? 
   The thing that binds us all together, this common sense of history, common sense of struggle, common sense of destiny, a common language. The language that binds us all together that  happens to be the most powerful unifying force known throughout history, throughout all mankind, is a common language. We start breaking that apart, and we find out that there are something like 37.5 million immigrants here in the United States, the largest number ever to be here, and in the highest percentages they speak foreign languages in their households. The American culture is being undermined and diminished, Mr. Speaker, by the illegal immigration that comes in. 
   And the legal immigration that we have, it's our job to set the valve down on that to allow an appropriate amount of legal immigration so that those that arrive here can do a number of things. The most important is that they assimilate into this civilization, into this American culture. That means they have to adapt to this broader American culture. It doesn't mean that you have to give up all of the culture of the foreign country. Those things that come from those countries that we adapt into this society, we would want to pick and choose the ones that are good. All things that come from other cultures are not good. There is a reason why people leave the countries that they leave. There is a reason why they come here. 
   I would like to say, Mr. Speaker, that this America is not just a giant ATM. It's not just some big machine that anyone can sneak across the border and punch that ATM and get some cash to come spitting out of it. This country is more than a cash transaction. This country is more than cheap labor for big business. This country is more than opening up our borders so that you can gain a political margin that's here and advance this cause of socialism on the left side and advance the cause of capitalism on the right side. 
   If you give either side the destination of their 
   argument, if you give unlimited political power to those folks on the liberal side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, and if you give unlimited economic advantage to the employers of cheap labor on not just the right side of the aisle, but I am finding out more and more on both sides of the aisle even more equally, turn those two forces loose with this policy on immigration, then big business will say ``I want more cheap labor'' and big politics will say ``I want more political power.'' 
   So they bring in 2 million, 5 million, 10 million, 20 million more and pour those into the equation, and business comes out with their cheap labor and left-wing politics comes out with their political power. But what happens to the middle, Mr. Speaker? What happens to the American people? What happens to blue-collar America? What happens to the union worker who has trained, has skills, and has organized his ability to be able to collectively bargain and sell his skills as a unit with his other union members? How difficult is it to sell your skills as a unit and collectively bargain when you're watching 11,000 people a night pour across our southern border that come in that are low skilled or unskilled? How difficult is it to market yourself as a labor unit, a blue-collar labor unit, into an economy that is bringing more people in that will work cheaper than you want to work? How difficult is it to strike a labor agreement in a factory when there are tens of thousands, in fact, maybe even tens of millions of people outside that factory that will take those jobs at a cut rate from what you are getting today? How do you negotiate for a raise if there are thousands of people sitting outside the gates of your plant and those thousands of people are saying, I know, you're making $22 an hour and you're having trouble making ends meet with taxes as high as they are and having to make your copayment on your health insurance and on your retirement plan? 
   I know that $22 an hour squeezes you down a little tight and you would like to get a raise, maybe 5 percent, 6 percent raise. You are willing to turn up a little more production, add a little more professionalism, to be able to work better with management to produce a product that is going to be more competitive. That is how things work between management and labor when it's working right. But what kind of leverage do you think you have, blue-collar America, when there are tens of thousands of people outside the gates of the factory that say, $22 an hour? I will work for $10 an hour. I will work for $9. I will work for $8. And if you give them their $10-an-hour job, they will go to work for that, of course, and they won't press for a raise. And if you bring in another 1 or 2 or 5 or 10 million people, that $10-an-hour job is being pressured by the people who want to work for $5 or $6 an hour. 
   You have to understand that labor is a commodity. It is a commodity like corn or beans or gold or oil. The value of labor is determined by supply and demand in the marketplace. Labor is a commodity. That's why labor unions throughout history have always wanted to see a tight labor market so that they can negotiate for a good return on the labor. And business can operate in that kind of environment, too, because they want a high level of professionalism. They want job safety. They want skilled employees, people that are proud of what they do, people that can come in as a unit. And that is the bargaining power that is there. 
   Now, I want to emphasize also that I support merit shop employees. You don't have to be organized to market your skills. If you have a skill and you bring that flexibility to the job and the employer looks at that and determines, here is someone that doesn't come out of a labor shop or a labor union but I can use him in four, five, or six different areas here and he is flexible enough that he can jump from machine to machine for me on the factory floor or out on the construction job. Someone that you want to make sure that you can provide health insurance for them as an employer and retirement benefits for them and vacation benefits for them. Those things all come because labor has value, and it is the hardest commodity to deal with if you're in business. The rest becomes fairly predictable, and that is what business wants also is predictability. But labor today, the blue-collar labor today, organized labor today, confounds my sense of rationale. And I would think that if you are a rank-and-file labor member that your rationale would be confounded too, because the people who do the negotiations for the unions in America should be pressing for a tight labor market and a higher wage and a higher benefit and better retirement plan and vacation time. That has got to be the push. And the trade-off is more skills, more training, more efficiency, more professionalism, let me say the symbiotic relationship between labor and management. 
   But what is happening is the leaderships within the union are going the other way. I think the union bosses have written off the rank-and-file union members. I think they have forgotten about the tight labor supply. I think they have decided that they will not have the political power here in America if they stake their future on smaller numbers of workers. So they must have made one of those calculuses back in the smoke-filled room that decided, let's just write off this group of people and let's bring in as many as we can. Let's go for an open borders policy. Let's adopt the people that are today illegal into our side of this argument, and if we can get them legalized, we can get them to vote and we will get political power, and eventually we will get what we want with higher wages and better benefits for our workers, which, by the way, translates into more power, more cash for union bosses. 
   Mr. Speaker, if we have blue-collar rank-and-file people out there, I do believe that they ought to take a very good look at the rationale behind the leadership within the unions that are filing a lawsuit against the Department of Homeland Security, because they are enforcing current immigration law, and they would go to court to get an injunction to stop just sending the no-match Social Security letters and asking them to take action to clean up the no-match Social Security numbers in America, whether or not there is a legal argument. And, Mr. Speaker, I don't believe there is a legal argument. I believe from the legal perspective it is a specious argument, but in any case, it is not a moral position that they have taken. It is not a moral position to say you shall not enforce the law and I'm going to go to the court with my ACLU and AFL-CIO lawyers and we're going to ball up this system and prove to you that we can shut down government enforcement of the laws. That, Mr. Speaker, is an active and willful assault on the central pillar of American exceptionalism called the rule of law.     
   That's taking a concrete stone and a concrete saw and cutting notches into that pillar of American exceptionalism, the rule of law, which eventually will topple the rule of law. Where do you get a job then, Mr. Speaker? Where does business do their business then? What is the future for the rest of the world if the American civilization capitulates to those kind of assaults? These are some of the things that are on my mind, Mr. Speaker, as I read the news and watch the things that are happening and engage in the debate in the Judiciary Committee, where we've had some hearings now on the massive amnesty plan called Flake-Gutierrez. 
   When I hear the constant statements being made that the U.S. economy would collapse if we didn't have the people that are doing the work in this country that are defined by them as ``undocumented,'' and those that I will call illegals, to address that subject matter, Mr. Speaker, first the American people need to understand that we are not hostage to any threat of running out of cheap labor in America. As I've read through history, I've yet to identify a single sovereign state throughout history that ever failed because of too low a supply, not enough cheap labor. 
   But in America today, you will see that the unemployment rates are the highest in the skills that are the lowest. That tells you that those jobs are being taken by people who have come across the border illegally or overstayed their visa, illegal aliens taking low-skilled jobs, many of them are illiterate in their own language and uneducated in their own language, and so they will take the lowest of skilled jobs because, whatever it is, it's better than where they came from. And unskilled Americans are missing out. 
   Now, we have something like a 13 percent high school dropout rate that would reflect my area, the region of the country that I'm in. The numbers go higher in different parts of the country. The numbers go up to 30 percent and more in inner cities. What's there for opportunities, Mr. Speaker, for those low-skilled Americans, American born or naturalized American citizens who are low skilled? What is there for them when the highest unemployment are in the lowest skilled jobs? 
   And so the question is, can we accept at face value the statement that an American economy can't function without the illegal labor that's here, without undocumented workers, to use their vernacular, Mr. Speaker? And I will argue that the American economy would function better if it had 100 percent legal workers that are here. Some immigrants, many naturalized, many naturally born American citizens, all of that put together, legal people in America working, are going to make this economy function better than opening up our borders for tens of millions of people who come in here without skills, without language, without the first indicators that they will be able to assimilate. 
   Here are some of the statistics that tell us why: We have 300 million people in America. That's a lot more than I thought we would have at this stage in my life. The administration won't answer the question of how many are too many; what do you think the population of America should be by the year 2050, or 2100 for that matter? 
   Three hundred million people in America, about 142 million people that are in the workforce. Now, if you look at that and you realize that those that are working in America, that are working unlawfully here, are about 6.9 million and, in fact, the testimony on the Flake-Gutierrez bill of the Judiciary Committee a couple of weeks ago, they said 7 million. So we're in there real close. We don't disagree. But let's just say my number, 6.9 million, I think they rounded their number up, 6.9 million working illegals in America. Well, that's a lot of folks. That's twice the population of the State of Iowa, for example. But as a percentage of the workforce, it amounts to about 4.7 percent of the overall workforce. And so 6.9 million people working, and that's out of their number of about 12 million altogether, and you can extrapolate that up to the 20 million or more that I think it is, but 6.9 million people working representing 4.7 percent of the workforce. But here's the catch, Mr. Speaker. They're doing 2.2 percent of the work. And they're working awfully hard to do that. I don't diminish the effort and the work ethic that's there. But we measure our gross domestic product by the overall production of the individuals that we have. Highly skilled, highly trained professional individuals command a high price, Mr. Speaker. The reason they do is because they're worth a lot, and they're worth a lot more. I have to pay a lawyer more than I get paid most of the time. We pay doctors more than we pay carpenters. We pay carpenters sometimes more than we pay taxi drivers. The list goes on because the value of the skills are also established in this society by supply and demand in the marketplace. That's the spectrum of the commodity that I defined as labor a little bit earlier, Mr. Speaker. 
   So 6.9 million illegals working out of the workforce here of 142 million, representing 4.7 percent of the workforce, producing 2.2 percent of the gross domestic product. Now, we're not going to pull the plug on that overnight. That's another one of those red herrings that get drug across the path of this debate. I don't know anyone who says we're going to go out here and in a single day round up 12 or 20 million people and put them on some transportation units and take them back where they came from. In fact, the Representative from Minnesota (Mr. Ellison) in the Judiciary Committee asked this question of a witness, how many trains and boats and planes would it take to send them all back? I quite enjoyed the answer of the witness who said, Well, they got here somehow. They can get back somehow. They can take their own transportation and go back for the most part. 
   It's not the question of whether we're going to round everybody up and deport them. No one that is debating this policy is advocating that we actually do that. But let me just say, suppose, Mr. Speaker, suppose a magic wand were waved and the fairy dust came and sprinkled across all 50 States in America, and the sun went down, and tomorrow morning when it came up everyone who was here in this country illegally woke up in their home country magically, without angst, without trauma. Just suppose hypothetically everyone woke up tomorrow morning in a country that they were lawfully present, where they could lawfully work and lawfully contribute to the society and reform the countries that need it, we would be out, well, the 12 to 20 million people that are here today. The workforce, though, the point that is being argued, there would be 6.9 million jobs out there tomorrow morning at 8 o'clock, if everybody is going to clock in at the same time, 6.9 million jobs. Let's just say all those people worked on the same shift, 8 to 5, with an hour off for lunch, and they're all gone, and they represented 2.2 percent of your production and you had a factory that had a delivery deadline that said you're going to have to get your quota out that door and loaded on trucks and gone, and that day between 8 and 5, you've got to produce your daily quota. You get the notice at 7:30 in the morning that the fairy dust has been sprinkled and you're going to be missing 2.2 percent of your production that day. Well, as a CEO, that isn't a very tough question. If we're all a factory here, if I were the CEO, I would put out a memo, and it would take me about 5 minutes to figure out what to do, and that would be a memo that went out to everyone. When they punched in that day, there would be a little notice above the time clock: Punch in, you're coming to work at 8 o'clock, and your 15-minute coffee break, I'm sorry for this inconvenience, has to be ratcheted back to 9 1/2 minutes this morning. It's got to be ratcheted back to 9 1/2 minutes this afternoon because we've got 11 minutes of our 8-hour day here that will be lost in our production because 2.2 percent of the production didn't show up for work today. That's the magnitude on the American economy that we're dependent upon right now. The magnitude of 11 minutes out of an 8-hour day is the production that's being done by illegal work in America. Now, would anybody actually argue that we couldn't get by with 7 hours and 49 minutes of production instead of a full 8 hours of production? 
   There are a lot of other ways to solve the problem or skin the cat. You can shorten the lunch hour by 11 minutes. You could work 11 minutes past 5  o'clock. You could do any combination of those things. You could skip a coffee break and actually pick up production that day. It's not the equivalent even of one single coffee break on an 8-hour day if we did all of the American GDP in one-third of our 24 hours. But, of course, we know it's spread across all 24 hours and 24/7. That's the reality of it. 
   So 6.9 million people out of a workforce of 142 million, representing 4.7 percent of the workforce, doing 2.2 percent of work, representing 11 minutes out of an 8-hour day, and you could divide that by three if you wanted to spread it around. So it would be 3 2/3 minutes, 3 minutes and 40 seconds out of each 8-hour shift, if you wanted to take it down that way, Mr. Speaker. Hardly something that this country can't adjust to or couldn't deal with, even if it were abrupt, let alone something that will only be incremental in its scope. 
   This is a red herring that has been drug across the path by the people on the other side. They have their reasons and their motivations, but a rational approach to an economic situation in America isn't something that they bring to the table, Mr. Speaker. 
   As a matter of fairness, I would also make the point that there are significant industries in this country that have become ever more dependent on illegal labor. That exists in the packing plant industry. It exists in the agriculture industry. It exists where there is a requirement for very low skills or trainable skills, and 
   people that aren't required to have language skills often fit into that category as well. 
   But the lower skilled environments that have become more dependent upon illegal labor have done so incrementally. It's been an evolutionary process. In speaking, Mr. Speaker, to the organized blue collar workers in America, in some cases management has come in and broken the union and replaced the union with illegal labor, or let's say a mix of illegal labor. And as this flow began, the recruitment in foreign countries also opened up. While that was going on, the Federal Government was turning a blind eye to enforcement of immigration. And the people living in the communities didn't actually see it in its broader magnitude. And the resentment came a little bit at a time and the realization came a little bit at a time. 
   I have spoken at significant length here, Mr. Speaker, about the responsibility of what happens when foreign countries set our immigration policy, when illegal immigrants from foreign countries come in here and take a slot that a legal immigrant could have, that takes away our ability to set an immigration policy. 
   But the largest responsibility has been and the first blame has been on the administration's lack of enforcement. This takes us back to 1986, to that amnesty bill that at least President Reagan had enough frank intuition to declare it an amnesty bill. The distinctions between the 1986 bill and the legislation that's before this Congress today and the Senate this week are really not significant in their scope. Amnesty in '86 is amnesty today. 
   But when the '86 bill was passed, it was billed as an amnesty to end all amnesties, Mr. Speaker. And I, sitting out there in the countryside, running a construction company, struggling through the farm crisis, absorbed the statements that were made here on the floor of Congress by the leadership here in Congress, by the President of the United States when the '86 amnesty bill was passed. I knew that I had to collect I-9s from job applicants, and I had to take a good look at their driver's license and their other documentation and make sure that it was a credible representation of who they were. I did so diligently. Those I-9s are still in my files and they're covered with dust. Nobody ever came and checked on that. They probably didn't need to check a little construction company, but they needed to check some large companies. They needed to have a presence out there that they were enforcing immigration law. And from 1986, the great threat that the Federal Government would be out there aggressively enforcing that new immigration law that was an amnesty to end all amnesties was a huge threat, a cloud that hung over all of us. We wanted to make sure that we dotted the I's and crossed the T's. And we lived in fear that the Federal government would shut us down, fine us or imprison us for not following Federal law. That was 1986. 
   But every month that went by, the threat diminished because the enforcement didn't materialize to the extent that we anticipated at least. And every year that went by, the enforcement got less. And as we went through the Reagan years, it diminished. And as we went through the first Bush presidency, it diminished. And as it went through the Clinton presidency, I was full of frustration because I was honoring immigration law, and I was competing against my competitors who sometimes did not honor immigration law. And I had two choices: I could adhere to the law and hope for enforcement when that competition had cheaper labor because they violated the law. I could do that, or I could throw up my hands and say, Well, if he can do it, I can do it. Well, I was raised in a family that revered that central pillar of American exceptionalism, the rule of law, and respected it. I still revere it and respect it, even more so today, Mr. Speaker. So that option of ``if you can't lick 'em, join them'' wasn't an option for me because the rule of law and respect for it prevented me from going down that path.     
   Today, we have watched the enforcement decline incrementally. I went through the Reagan administration from 1986 until the completion of Ronald Reagan's term. George Bush, the first President Bush, his lack of enforcement diminished it. The Reagan years, by comparison, were pretty good. The first President Bush diminished from there. 
   When Bill Clinton came to office, I began to really watch closely the lack of enforcement in the Clinton administration. I was full of frustration, as a construction company owner, that I was competing against that lack of enforcement. Yet when I look back at the statistics of the companies that were sanctioned during the Clinton administration, I see that, on the graph, it continued its decline of enforcement through these years that we are in today with a little uptick in the last year. I am not yet convinced that that uptick in enforcement from this administration is an uptick that comes from conviction on the rule of law or whether it is an uptick in increase and enforcement of immigration law to send a message to us that there will be enforcement if you just give us the comprehensive amnesty plan that we have asked for. You can choose your opinion on that, Mr. Speaker. I choose not to come down on either side of that argument for the sake of this discussion here. 
   I will say that this country has not been well served over the last 20 years due to lack of enforcement of immigration law. The country has been flooded with people that came in here illegally because we haven't enforced our laws and part of the things that came with that. Now, I will make the point, and it is a point that the opponents would continually make. I will make the point that most who come here do break the law to come here. But their goal is to provide for their family. At some point you make that decision, however hard the decision is, to provide for your family. But all who come here are not coming here to provide for their family. All who come here are not coming here with the goal of getting a job and finding a better way and finding a path through legalization and then bringing the rest of their family members here. That all happens. I admire the family network. I admire the faith network. I admire the work ethic that is within a significant majority of those who come here both legally and illegally. But I have a charge. I have a responsibility. I took an oath to uphold the Constitution. The complication of that oath is that I uphold the rule of law, as well. So I look into the statistical data that tells us what happens when we don't enforce the rule of law. 
   I listened to the immigration hearings over the last 5 years of constant immigration hearings, not every week, but sometimes multiple times a week, averaging every week at least, Mr. Speaker. The testimony constantly came. We are losing 250, 300 and then on up to 450 and more people who died in the desert in an effort to come into the United States. That is sad. It is  tragic. I have seen the pictures. It is a hard thing to look at. But I began to think, Mr. Speaker, about that other responsibility, that responsibility that we all here in the Chamber have to the American people, the responsibility that is part of our oath to uphold the Constitution. The implication is we uphold also the rule of law. 
   So I began to ask the witnesses that were testifying as to the loss of life in the Arizona desert. But what has happened to the people that did make it into the United States? What has happened to the American citizens who fell victim to the hand of some of those who came in here that are criminals, recognizing that $65 billion worth of illegal drugs pours across our southern border every year? That is all a crime. 
   By the way, for the point of record, Mr. Speaker, anyone who alleges that it is not a crime to illegally enter the United States is wrong, that it is a criminal misdemeanor to cross the United States border in violation of U.S. law. So sneaking across the border in the middle of the night makes that person a criminal. One of the Presidential candidates said otherwise. He might be a district attorney or prosecuting attorney. Federal law says it is a criminal misdemeanor to enter the United States illegally. So those who do so, and among them are those who are smuggling in illegal drugs, among them are those who are trafficking in illegal humanity, among them are those who are trafficking in prostitution and victimizing small girls and children. In this huge human wave, we have contraband. We have criminals. They commit crimes here in the United States. 
   So, one of the questions is, what would happen to the drug distribution chain if the fairy dust were sprinkled across America and tomorrow morning everyone woke up legally? It would shut town the distribution of illegal drugs in America if magically tomorrow morning everyone woke up in a country that they were lawfully present in. It would shut it down literally, virtually, any way you want to describe it, Mr. Speaker, because the links in the chain of the distribution that start in places like Colombia, China, Mexico, 90 percent of the illegal drugs coming across our southern border, those links in the chain are links that are built within the stream of humanity which is the illegal humanity that is here in this country today. That is the path of their fellow travelers, however good their virtues are, however high their ideals of providing for their family, getting a job and creating a home, they still also provide a conduit within a culture that is the distribution of illegal drugs. 
   With those illegal drugs comes the massive damage to human potential, especially to our young people in America. Yes, we have a responsibility here to shut down that demand. That is ours. We need to take that on. I can't look the Mexican Government in the eye and say, ``You need to help us shut down the illegal drugs in America and that will solve the problem.'' It will not. We need to shut down the demand in America. That is an American problem. It is a problem that causes problems in Mexico as well. That is a different subject, Mr. Speaker, and I will take that up perhaps another time. But this conduit for illegal drugs is a conduit that flows within illegal populations in America, and there are links to every distribution chain in America that go through that illegal population. So, that is one thing that would happen. 
   Another thing that would happen is there is a high crime rate, a higher crime rate in all the donor countries that send us people across at least our southern border and probably all of our borders, a higher crime rate than we have here in America. For example, violent death in America, 4.28 per 100,000 people. That is a statistic. Mexico, 13.2 per 100,000. That is three times the violent death rate in Mexico to that of the United States. So one could presume that out of every 100,000 people you would bring in, you would have three times more murderers than you would have within a typical population of the United States. That is not, when you look at the broader scheme, Mr. Speaker, as surprising or shocking as when you realize that Mexico has a lower crime rate than most, I will say, all of its neighbors with the exception of the United States, and most of the countries that are south of Mexico have a higher crime rate. 
   For example, the violent death rate in Honduras is nine times that of the United States. El Salvador 
   can't find any statistics on. I can tell you in Colombia the rate is 63 violent deaths per 100,000. It works out to be 15.4 times more violent deaths per 100,000 than there are in the United States. Out of there comes a lot of cocaine, drug network, and drug trafficking. 
   My point is, Mr. Speaker, that American people die at the hands of criminal aliens here in the United States at a rate that we can't quantify nor comprehend at this point. I have a responsibility to protect the American people. This immigration policy that we have here in America, Mr. Speaker, is not a policy to accommodate any country in the world. It is a policy designed to enhance the economic, social and cultural well-being of the United States of America. 
   Every immigration policy for every sovereign state in the world should be established with the interests of that sovereign state, whether it would be Mexico, the United States, Holland, Norway, Russia, you name it. Every sovereign state needs to set an immigration policy that strengthens them. I support that we first seal the border, build a fence, build a wall, shut off automatic citizenship to babies that are born here to illegal mothers, workplace enforcement, pass the New Idea Act, end Federal deductibility for wages and benefits that are paid to illegals, and shut down that jobs magnet. I support all of that. Force all traffic, both human, contraband and legal cargo through our ports of entry on our southern border. Beef them up. Add more science. Make sure that we are effective in the job that we do on our border. I support all of that. By doing so, we have shut down the jobs magnet and we have shut off the illegal traffic coming into the United States. We have really made it difficult to bring illegal drugs into the United States at the same time. 
   We do all of that, Mr. Speaker, and then what we get out of that other side is, now, we have cleared the field so we can establish a rational immigration policy for legal people, legal entrance into the United States, and we can score them according to their ability to contribute to this economy. We can put out a matrix, a point system, that says, especially if you are young you have a lot of time to contribute to the economy, if you have a high education, you are going to make a higher wage and you are going to pay more taxes and you are going to be able to fund your own retirement and that of a bunch of other people while you are here. We can score this system up so we can have an immigration policy that does enhance the economic, the social and the cultural well-being of the United States. 
   But what we cannot do, Mr. Speaker, is we can't grant amnesty. We can't pardon immigration lawbreakers. We can't reward them with the objective of their crimes. If we do that, we ultimately destroy the central pillar of American exceptionalism called the rule of law. If that happens, there is no foundation to build a greater America. There is no foundation upon which we can lift this country up to a greater destiny. There is only the devolution of a civilization that is great today, maybe was greater yesterday, and that would lose its opportunity to be greater tomorrow. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA, WRONG FOR THE NATION -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, as always, I very much appreciate the privilege to address you here on the floor of the House of Representatives. 
   There are a number of issues that are before us this evening that have accumulated over the last week or two that I believe are worthy of our consideration and our discussion here, and among them are a couple of debates that we had today. And perhaps the first of which was a fairly intense debate that we had on a bill that addressed the Iraq war, and that would be H.R. 3087, and this is a piece of legislation that came out what seems like a weekly effort to weaken the resolve of our troops, make their job harder in Iraq, seeking to answer to MoveOn.org and energizing the anti-war liberal left in America and energizing our enemies across the world, including and I mean specifically al Qaeda. 
   And, Madam Speaker, many times I have come to the floor and spoken to this issue and reminded Americans that we are at war. And when a Nation is successful in a difficult war, they pull together and bind together in the same will. There was an address made here on the floor talking about World War I, World War II, and other conflicts we have been in as well as the Iraq war that we are in right now. I would take us back to World War II as the central example of the time when the Nation pulled together. And there were rations here in the United States. Most everybody found a way to contribute to the war effort. My father went to the South Pacific for 2 1/2 years. My mother tied parachutes in a parachute factory. The unemployment rate was down to 1.2 percent, and as far as I know, that is the lowest unemployment rate that this country has had. And that was at the same time that many of the women went to work that traditionally had not. 
   This Nation pulled together, put 16 million Americans in uniform to defend ourselves on two major fronts, the war in Europe and the war in the Pacific, and mobilized an entire Nation, an entire people. 
   The movies were about patriotism and defending the American way of life. We had pride in our culture and who we were. And the legacy that flows from that is that the United States, ultimately after we walked our way through the Cold War, we emerged as the unchallenged only superpower and the greatest Nation on Earth. That is the legacy of the selfless sacrifice and the single will of a people when they came together when they saw that they were attacked from without, threatened from without, and they saw that the world was in danger of being consumed by totalitarian powers. 
   And after that Second World War, we went through the Cold War. Again the world was in danger of being consumed by totalitarian powers. But the will of the American people during the Second World War was unquestioned. They understood that our job was to defeat the will of our enemies, and that meant that we had to apply military might in both directions, to the east and to the west, break down their ability to conduct war; but in the end destroying their ability to tactically attack our military was just a means to an end. The end was to defeat the will of the German people and defeat the will of the Japanese people, which the bombs in Hiroshima and Nagasaki did finally defeat the will of the Japanese people. 
   Now here we are engaged in this war against al Qaeda, against radical extremist jihadists, people who have committed themselves and say they have a religious belief that their path to salvation is in killing us. It is our way of life that threatens them. And they have come across the oceans and attacked us here on our soil. And they have global plots that weekly there's some kind of information that emerges about sometimes second and third generation immigrants who come into the Western European countries and determine that they might be sent back to Pakistan or one of the other countries over in the Middle East to be trained to be a terrorist and they come back into the Western society and plot and sometimes successfully attack people from Great Britain and in other countries in Europe. And we have been fortunate in this country not to have an effective attack against us since September 11, 2001. 
   But the enemy that we are against, the enemy we are fighting across the world, this global terrorist army out there that are rooted in al Qaeda in that philosophy and their affiliates, and it is a loose affiliation even within al Qaeda itself, the principle enemy in our battlefield that is Iraq is al Qaeda in Iraq. That has been clearly brought to this Congress, and it has been a message that has been delivered to us by General Petraeus, Ambassador Crocker, and others. Who is our enemy? Al Qaeda in Iraq. The number one enemy. There are a number of other enemies there, and there is a struggle going on for power. 
   But we are in the business of defeating the will of our enemy. Our brave troops have put their lives on the line, and many of them have given their lives in that effort to project freedom to that part of the world, protect our freedom here, and defeat the will of the enemy. They lost their lives, sanctified the soil in Iraq with their blood to defeat the will of our enemy in Iraq. 
   And yet here on the floor of the House of Representatives, since the gavel in and the passing of the gavel in this new 110th Congress, there has been almost weekly, with only two or three exceptions that I can think of, at least one resolution or a bill or a piece of legislation here on the floor of the House of Representatives that serves to do what? It serves to encourage our enemies, to encourage the will of our enemies, and weaken the will of the American people. 
   So if this war is not to be won, and I believe it will be won and I believe that the indications that are coming from Iraq since the beginning of the surge, information such as the lowest monthly loss of American lives was in this past month of September, the lowest month in the last 14 months, this at a time when we have upped the troop numbers over there by at least 30,000 and engaged them in an aggressive posture of searching and destroying our enemy and hunting them out in the neighborhoods and our troops that are actually living in the neighborhoods rather than in their compounds, that kind of information is coming to us. 
   And I have been to Iraq five times. The last time was towards the end of July. The things that I saw there gave me a preliminary view of the report that General Petraeus would give us here in this Congress in just this past month, a couple of weeks ago. The news has been encouraging. And, of course, no one can declare victory there, but one can certainly see that we have made significant progress. It's moving in the right direction. All of this, Madam Speaker, in spite of, not because of but in spite of, these demoralizing resolutions that have come to the floor of this Congress. 
   And this one that was out here today is another demoralizing resolution,  this H.R. 3087 that has been delivered here and supported by a larger number of my colleagues than I have seen in the past. And I wonder what the motive is, what they hope to gain, what the upside would be to bring a resolution such as this. 
   This resolution has in its findings the statement that the authorization for use of military force against Iraq resolution of 2002, where this Congress voted to authorize the President to have the authority to engage in military action in Iraq that was enacted into law in October 2002, and it says here ``authorize the President to use the Armed Forces as the President determined necessary and appropriate in order to defend the national security of the United States.'' I agree with that statement. I think it's consistent with the use of the military force resolution. 
   However, the findings of this resolution that passed off the floor of this House tonight have a false statement in them. It states: ``the continuing threat posed by the Government of Iraq at that time'' was the reason that we passed the use of military force resolution here that went into law in 2002. I will state again, and this is right off the resolution: ``the national security of the United States against the continuing threat posed by the Government of Iraq at that time.'' 
   As I have read through this entire resolution that did pass, current law that did pass, and I looked for the reference to the reason being our opposition to the Government of Iraq, and it's capitalized, Government of Iraq at the time, and going through these references in here in this resolution over and over again, there is a multiple number of references to Iraq, and I have read every one of those references to Iraq. I have them here highlighted, and there is not a single reference to the Government of Iraq or the Government of Iraq at that time.     
   They're all references about Iraq itself. And I could go through this, the Government of Iraq, destroy Iraq's weapons, declared Iraq to be, on and on and on; no reference to the Government of Iraq. 
   And yet, this resolution that passed the floor identifies the use of military force resolution as the reason that they brought this one forward and makes a statement that because the resolution from 2002 identified a threat posed by the Government of Iraq, and then it goes on further to say that, the Government of Iraq, which was in power at the time of the authorization for use of military force, was enacted into law, but that because the leader has been removed from power, he has been indicted, he's been tried, he's been executed by the new and freely elected Government of Iraq; therefore, the current Government of Iraq does not pose a threat. 
   Now, this rationale of, we went to war in Iraq, we gave the President the authority to use military force in Iraq, this resolution today that says it was because it was against the Government of Iraq, and because the government has changed and no longer poses a threat, we have no reason to be in Iraq is that it is an irrational rationale that is founded upon a falsehood. And this entire resolution then is based upon a falsehood that is supported by a flawed premise. 
   So, to get here with a resolution, then, that requires the President to present to this Congress a contingency plan for a redeployment of the Armed Forces from Iraq that would include a range of possible scenarios, multiple possible timetables to require the President to, and I understand this resolution actually says the director of the department, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State and a list of the cabinet members, it really means the President, Madam Speaker, it will require the Commander in Chief to have his cabinet then present to this Congress, describe the possible missions they might have of redeployment, project the number of members of the Armed Forces which would remain in Iraq in order to do a number of things; protect vital U.S. interests and national security, conduct counterterrorism operations to protect the Armed Forces, the United States Diplomatic Corps, and support, equip and train Iraqi forces, these things that we would need military forces for. And it says ``provide a range of possible scenarios.'' 
   And so this resolution, if signed into law, and I would hope that the President would veto such a thing, would require the Commander in Chief then to present a series of different alternatives and means to deploy our troops out of Iraq, put those in public before this Congress, who we know can't keep a secret, show our enemies a whole list of contingency plans. 
   Now, part of successful warfare is to have a few things in your pocket that you don't tell the enemy about. It's essential that we be able to have some surprise tactics, and so far I think the enemy is slightly surprised that the President has resisted the push of the Speaker and the majority leader in the United States Senate and taken a clear constitutional and principled and patriot stand that we are going to follow through on our commitment in Iraq. And as we see them make progress over there, we're watching resolutions come to this floor, Madam Speaker, that undermine our troops and their mission, as resolute as they are, as stoic as they are, as committed as they are. It doesn't recognize either the fact that everyone serving in Iraq from this United States military is a volunteer, a volunteer for the branch of the military that they're in. They weren't drafted; they signed up voluntarily. They knew that they had very good odds of being deployed to Iraq, and many of them are on their second tour, some on their third tour and even some on their forth tour of duty in Iraq, selflessly carrying out their duty and asking us, let us finish our mission, we're making progress here. 
   This, Madam Speaker, is a disgraceful thing to bring to the floor of the House of Representatives. It serves no useful purpose unless one wanted to serve a purpose to encourage our enemies and demoralize the will of the American people, which seems to be one of the goals that I have seen come out of this Congress on a weekly basis. And I and a good number of others voted ``no.'' I know some voted ``no'' because they didn't think it went far enough. They don't seem to recognize that in their constitutional oath, they swore to uphold the Constitution. And from the perspective of the Constitution, we don't have any authority to micromanage a war. 
   One of the previous speakers in the previous hour said that we don't need 535 generals, or words to that effect, and we don't. It's not that we don't need them; our founders understood, when they drafted the Constitution, we couldn't have 535 generals, that we couldn't have wars micromanaged by Congress. They knew what it was like to have a Continental Congress and a Continental Army and try to get the confederation of States that we had at the time of the Revolutionary War to go together and voluntarily provide funds to fund the military. And what was going to be the command and control structure? They knew you had to have a strong central government to have a strong military. And they knew you couldn't fight wars by committee; you had to hand that over to a Commander in Chief. That's why, when they drafted the Constitution, they clearly established in the Constitution that the President of the United States would be the Commander in Chief of our Armed Forces. That's one of the things that's constitutional that we all need to recognize when we take our oath to the Constitution. 
   And another is the constitutional authority that this Congress does have. We have the authority to raise an Army and a Navy, and by implication an Air Force. And we have the authority, and I say a duty and obligation, to fund it. But we do not have the authority to micromanage it. We don't have the authority to be calling shots in a war. That's got to be one person, not a committee, not a mercurial switchback from one side to the other or a never-ending chain of resolutions that has no strategic purpose, no logical purpose in law, only a purpose to try to encourage the people in this country that are in the business of trying to encourage our enemy, and the ultimate effect is to demoralize the people in the middle who are really the ones that are subject to this debate. 
   The people on the left that show up here to demonstrate in this city against this military effort are never going to change their mind, Madam Speaker. That's not going to happen. There is no amount of logic or rationale, no human experience that can flip  them over the other way. They are dug in. And there are some folks on the other side that are going to stand with our President and with our Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines, and they are going to stand with our dear departed who have sacrificed, and they're going to stand with our wounded, they're going to stand with our military families and they're going to stand with the mission and the people that have been asked to carry it out. They're going to support the troops and the mission. 
   There are some people on the other side, on the left side of the aisle, that will say ``I support the troops but not their mission.'' They don't seem to recognize the dichotomy of that position. You can't ask someone, ``You can put your life on the line for me, I support you, but it's not a good thing you're doing. I don't agree with 
   your mission.'' You cannot do that to people. If you support the troops, you have to support the mission. 
   And so, Madam Speaker, we are where we are today, as irrational as it is, as demoralizing as it is, as debilitating as it is, another debate on this floor that has no purpose in law, just tries to make an argument to those people in the middle that might be swayed to go over to the side of the pacifists on the left. That's been our debate here on the floor. 
   And I believe I will tack on to that another resolution today that I think was an unnecessary resolution, and that's a resolution that drew a good size number of votes that were votes for ``present,'' and that's the resolution that took up the issue of Ramadan. And I think the language in that was excessive, so did a good number of Members of this Congress; all didn't have the will to put up a ``present'' vote, and no one had the will to put up a ``no'' vote. But I would point out that Ramadan has been the bloodiest month throughout this global war on terror, and so if that is the holy month, I would like to see Ramadan lifted up to be the bloodless month if it's going to be a peaceful religion. 
   And now, Madam Speaker, I would like to take the subject matter off of these depressing things and on to another subject matter that is not particularly thrilling either, and that, Madam Speaker, is the subject of SCHIP, the Children's Health Insurance Plan. 
   This legislation that passed out of this Congress in the 1990s that I will say emerged from the Clinton administration and was intensely debated in the State legislature where I was at the time, where we adopted a bill off of that that we called ``Hawkeye.'' And that's just the Iowa version, and it wouldn't apply unless there happens to be a Buckeye in Ohio. But the SCHIP program was an intense debate here and it continues to be debated across the country. The President is poised to veto the SCHIP bill, and I think he has very sound reasons to do so, Madam Speaker. 
   First of all, the idea that we would increase the health insurance coverage for families that are making three or four times the rate of poverty defeats the very concept of the idea of SCHIP. And that is that we wanted to provide, and it was Congress' intent to provide, health insurance for those children in families that were not so well to do, that didn't quite qualify for Medicaid coverage. And so from the Medicaid side of this, it wasn't quite enough to reach up into those lower-income families, and so SCHIP was created. And as it was created and it came to the States, we adopted in my State an SCHIP program that covered 200 percent of poverty, trying to reach those kids that weren't insured. 
   So, here are the levels that were produced by the Congressional Budget Office just this year. If you cover between 100 and 200 percent of poverty, half of the children will have private health care anyway, about half of them within that range. The legislation that first passed off of the floor of this Congress, this Pelosi-led Congress that was then modified by the Senate is way over on the right. That's 400 percent of poverty. That shows that when you offer subsidized health insurance to that level at 400 percent of poverty, you're going to get 95 percent of the kids that were insured that will roll off of that health insurance and onto the government program. The various stops in between, 300-400 percent of poverty, 89 percent, well, that's nine out of 10 kids that are already covered, you're going to get them off and onto the government program; 200-300 percent at 77 percent. 
   So what was our mission here? What were we seeking to do? One is the SCHIP program needed to be reauthorized, it was expiring and needed to be reauthorized. And so it needed to be brought before this Congress, and we needed to make a decision on how it was going to be shaped and what the parameters of SCHIP would be. And I would have liked to have seen it extended to 200 percent of poverty. And I would like to have seen some of those 25-year-olds that were collecting SCHIP insurance be taken off of those rolls and roll this thing down to where it be kids, not young adults that should be taking care of their own health insurance. But instead, the leadership in this Congress saw fit to bring legislation to this floor and roll over the top of an intensely opposed minority at 400 percent of the poverty level. 
   Now, to give you an example of what that is, the poverty level is fairly consistent across the country, but in Iowa, if that SCHIP plan that was first offered by this Pelosi Congress that was passed off this floor over to the Senate were enacted into law in a State like Iowa, a family of four, a mom and dad and two kids, would qualify for SCHIP coverage even if they're making $103,249 a year. Now, I call that pretty well off. If you're making six figures, you've got two kids in the family, four mouths to feed, you should be able to find a way to take care of your own health insurance. Likely, that's going to be available in the workplace; at least 75 percent of those jobs do provide health insurance for the employees. But the Senate has modified this language and kicked it back over here at 300 percent of poverty. So in a State like Iowa, under this 300 percent of poverty, they would be offering SCHIP health insurance subsidy up to $77,437 a year for a family of four. 
   Now, I can take these numbers up to families of eight and on and they go way off into the stratosphere. But a family of four has been our standard across this country. Currently, if you're in Iowa and you're a family of four and you're making less than $51,625 a year, you qualify for subsidized health insurance premiums, $51,625. We call that middle class where I come from. 
   And so this policy that first passed off the floor, the 400 percent of poverty, went so far that 70,000 families in America that would qualify for SCHIP funding would also be compelled to pay the Alternative Minimum Tax, that tax that was designed to make sure that the rich didn't slip by without paying their fair share. That was a special tax for the rich, the Alternative Minimum Tax. 70,000 families in America are making so much money that they would have to pay the Alternative Minimum Tax and we would have to subsidize their health insurance premiums for their kids, presumably because in order to pay that extra tax on the rich, the Alternative Minimum Tax, presumably we have to subsidize their health insurance so they've got the money to pay the extra tax.     
   That is bizarre, Madam Speaker. It is bizarre if you believe in a free market system, if you believe we are ever going to have a health care program in the United States that actually rewards those that take responsibility, one that allows people to have a choice and one that allows people to make decisions for their own health care. 
   But that is not where this is going. This debate has a couple of contradictions within it that the discerning ear will hear. One of them is on the part of the left, the Pelosis, Harry Reids and Hillary Clintons and all the Democratic candidates for President, Madam Speaker, very loosely interchange the term, and this is as near as my ears picked up, very loosely interchange the term ``health insurance'' with ``health care.'' 
   For example, my Governor came to this Hill. And sitting in a congressional delegation meeting with the Senators and the Representatives, all Members of Congress, sitting in the room, said that there are 40,000 kids in Iowa that don't have health care. I am not aware of a single kid in Iowa that doesn't have health care, at least access to health care. If they are poor, they get  Medicaid. If they are at low-income, they get SCHIP or hawk-i. If they go to the emergency room, they will all get care regardless of whether they are qualified, whether their parents take the trouble of getting them health insurance. So there are no kids that I am aware of in Iowa that don't have health care. 
   It may be true that 40,000 don't have health insurance. It might be that there are a number of those kids that are covered under Medicaid that don't make enough money to be in that threshold level for SCHIP. But it is not true that 40,000 don't have health care. That is the sloppiness of the exchange between those two terms. ``Health care'' and ``health insurance'' have become kind of an easy slip into the utilization of the terms. In the same fashion that some people say ``immigrant'' when they mean ``illegal immigrant,'' some people say ``health care'' where when they say ``no health care for kids'' they really mean ``kids that currently don't have health insurance for one reason or another.'' But they are not alleging, at least, that there are kids in this country that don't have access to health care. That is one of the problems that we have in our communications. It is not that they don't have access to health care. 
   Another one is the complete flat-out denial on many of them on the left that this SCHIP plan is the cornerstone for a socialized medicine program. Now, you can argue about what kind of shape it takes, but if you listen to Hillary Clinton or John Edwards or Barack Obama, they are all for some kind of a national health care plan. A national health care plan, once adopted, becomes a single-payer national plan where everything is merged together. They want to negotiate for the cost of Medicare as a group, and they will want to negotiate for the cost of all services with the leverage of the Federal Government. They will want to do that with the cost of pharmaceuticals. This takes away the competition that comes from within that drives the research and development, that provides for the highest quality medical care in the world. If you adopt the Hillary plan from 1993, eventually it merges into a single-payer Canadian plan. 
   Now, I took the trouble today to read through, Madam Speaker, William Clinton's speech before the floor of this Congress that he brought here in, this is September 22, 1993, when he came to give a speech before a joint session of Congress. This is about an hour speech, 13 1/2 pages, single-spaced, where Bill Clinton laid out Hillary's health care plan. It is very adeptly done. It was quite interesting to read through this health care plan. 
   Some of the comments that he made were kind of astute. One was that he thought we needed Medicare prescription drug coverage. We did do that. That's a piece of that plan. We got that accomplished here in this Congress, Madam Speaker. Some of the other arguments, we are drowning in paperwork, we must produce savings. He goes into how you produce savings. Well, that is going to be some form of limiting. He said he doesn't want to limit prices, but he would limit the increase in prices, which by now we know would be price limitations. Mountains of unnecessary procedures. It is quite interesting that President Clinton is opposed to mountains of unnecessary procedures. But we know that because of the high cost of the litigation, the lawsuits against medical providers and the medical malpractice insurance premiums that are necessary because of the intensive litigation against the practitioners of health care, we know that that is a reason why a lot of these tests are done. 
   We can argue that they are not necessary one at a time. But every doctor has to make the decision on whether he is going to be defending that decision in court, because the Monday morning quarter backs, the after-the-fact ambulance-chasing lawyers will raise those issues up for litigation. If they see a deep pocket, they will go for it. The deep pocket has been the medical industry. 
   So the mountains of unnecessary procedures ties into the unnecessary litigation that is part of this. However, there is nothing in the Clinton plan that addresses the high cost of litigation. That is a big reason why we have the high cost of health care here in the United States. We have tried to limit that in this Congress. We have tried to limit it in the last Congress and tried to cap the malpractice to $250,000 in noneconomic damages while still letting everyone who has been a victim of malpractice get themselves whole. We couldn't get it past the trial lawyers, the trial lawyers in the Senate in particular. But the Clinton plan gives full deference to the trial lawyers' interests here and doesn't approach that expensive component of health care at all. 
   He addresses fraud and abuse. I agree there is some of that. He calls it, though, under our broken health care system that power is slipping away from Americans. Then, let me see, an interesting component here on about page 9 or 10, we will impose new taxes on tobacco, directly out of SCHIP is right off of this page, new taxes on tobacco, Federal taxes at a dollar a pack. Some of the States, including my own, have raised taxes. That turns into, and I am not a smoker, Madam Speaker, I think it would be a wonderful thing if no one smoked. But it is a legal activity. The marketing of tobacco is done as prescribed by the Federal Government. So this tax, a higher percentage of poorer people smoke than people that are better off. So this tax becomes a very regressive tax on the people that do smoke. 
   It does advocate here, though, that we should be able to deduct from our taxes 100 percent of our premiums if we are a small business. I do support that. There were some components in here that were good. It was an interesting read on what was delivered to the floor of this Congress in 1993, the things that have transpired since then and the effort that is coming out today. 
   I would note that nothing in this speech of these multiple pages here in this roughly an hour-long speech of Bill Clinton from September of 1993, all on health care, and really all packaged up on the Hillary plan, nothing in this addresses health savings accounts. Yet we passed health savings accounts here off the floor of this Congress. They are the opportunity that we have to 
   continue to provide the private market health care here in the United States and to give people choices and let them have control over their own plans. I think that was the strongest reason to vote for the Medicare prescription drug component piece of the bill. 
   The health savings accounts were the most important component. It allowed, in the beginning, young couples to put $5,150 in a tax free, into a health savings account. I would like to see that expanded and accelerated so that young people would get to the age of retirement with six figures times X of money in their health savings account, enough money that they could purchase a paid-up, lifetime health insurance plan. If we could do that, then they could roll the money that is left over out of that and put that back into their savings account, their estate, whatever they choose to do with it. That is a good thing to build on, health savings account, and rewarding those providers that provide high-quality care for a low price, that is the best combination. That is something also we should do, Madam Speaker. 
   We have made some progress here. We have made some progress under this Republican Congress in past years. But this year, this SCHIP plan goes too far. The people that advocate this were the same people that advocated 400 percent of poverty. I haven't heard a peep of fiscal responsibility come out of the other side. So where would they draw the line? I have drawn it, Madam Speaker, at 200 percent of poverty. I put that vote up in the late '90s. That's a matter of record. I have been here on this floor, and I support the SCHIP program to a limit. That limit is 200 percent of poverty. I would ask those advocates that came to this floor and voted for 400 percent of poverty, what is their limit? Where do they draw the line? They wouldn't draw it at 400 percent of poverty when there is hardly anybody left on any private insurance, hardly any kids left. Ninety-five percent of the kids are gone and pushed into the government-funded program. Their choices are really substantially limited. 
   How many million kids would be talked off of private health insurance by this bill as it came off the floor of the House the other day and that essentially it does concur with the Senate? I can tell you that number. That  number is produced by the Congressional Budget Office; 2.1 million kids in the United States would be leveraged off of or talked off of and given an incentive, their parents would be given an incentive to take them off of their own insurance plan so the government can pay the insurance that the families are already paying. 
   Is this that consistent with the motive here that we are trying to get health insurance to kids who don't have it when 2.5 million of them who do have it will be taken from their own self-sustaining, family-funded health insurance plan, often funded by the employer who will see the opportunity to cut down on their costs and push their employees' kids over on to an SCHIP plan? 2.1 million kids moved off. How many kids in the future, if this bill becomes law, how many will never see a private health insurance plan? For how many of them will it become automatic, employers will make the shift, they will write new policies, they will offer to their employees? 
   As they do that, the employees won't know there is another choice. I can easily see an employer sitting there in the HR office, the manager saying to a prospective employee, Here is our plan. We will pay for your health insurance and we will pay for your wife's health insurance. We have a good plan, but your kids will go on SCHIP. We have a way to facilitate that for you so we make that real easy. 
   While they are doing that, they will be saving some dollars in the premium. But it will end up being private insurance for mom and dad, government insurance for the kids to 95 percent or more. When it is 95 percent, who is left? Just a few people who stubbornly want to be self-reliant and stand on their own two feet. Just a few people, Madam Speaker, will be all that will be left if this thing goes all the way to 400 percent. 
   Even at 300 percent, you are looking at 89 percent of those kids are gone. Then, year after year as employers change their plans to taking advantage of now another government handout, and as they hire new employees, and as this thing shifts and evolves, there will be fewer and fewer kids on private health insurance, but millions and millions of them that never go on. 
   This isn't just the numbers of 2.1 million that go off within the next year if this bill becomes law. And that is at the 300 percent, 2.1 million. It is not just that. It is the tens of millions and ultimately the hundreds of millions that will never see a private health insurance plan until they become the age of adulthood, which by then the proponents of SCHIP would like to have a plan in place for those people, for those kids, as they become adults. 
   Bill Clinton promised us that when Hillarycare came crashing down, when it collapsed in the weight of the opposition of the American people that wanted to keep their freedom and didn't want a Canadian-style plan and understood there was no place for them to go to get their health care if the United States was going to be shut into a Canadian-style, rationed, long-lines health insurance premium, when the American people brought that crashing down, when Senator Graham said, This passes over my cold, dead political body, when that happened, then Bill Clinton came before the American people and said, Well, this is more than the American people can absorb all at one time. So we will get this done a piece at a time. We are going to feed this to the American people a piece at a time. When we do that, we will get them the SCHIP. Then we will also go for the 55 to 65 year olds. 
   Now, Madam Speaker, do you get the picture, the 55 to 65 years olds? First, we will bring the kids in. Who can say ``no'' to the kids? Who can say ``no'' to 300 percent? In fact, a whole bunch couldn't say ``no'' to 400 percent of poverty. We know 400 percent of poverty is 95 percent of the kids. So if you get to 500 or 600 or 800 percent of poverty, you are going to get, statistically, we say today, virtually all of them. So at some point, we just say that all kids qualify because there are hardly any kids that are not on there. 
   Then, if we follow this path that is advocated by Bill Clinton back in the mid-1990s, lower the age of Medicare eligibility down to 55, now your window, we have got people that are 25 years old qualified for SCHIP today on SCHIP in the States, and we have people there at 400 percent of poverty. If you lower the Medicare age down to 55, 25 to 55 is only that 30-year window. Well, that is the most productive years. Those are the people that will be paying the taxes.     
   They will be the ones that feel the pain the most, and they will say, why do I pay for all this health insurance and health care for the seniors that are 55 years old that have a lot of years and vigor left in them, and the kids that are now kids up to age 25? Why don't you just give me mine, too, under the same version, because, after all, I am paying for it anyway. I am paying for my own at work because it's part of the wages I earn, and I am paying for all the kids up to age 25, well, at least a lot of the kids up to age 25, and the adults from age, as Clinton advocated, 55 on up. 
   Does anybody believe that HILLARY CLINTON disagrees with Bill on this one-hour long speech? I would submit that she wrote a lot of it; in fact, may have written all of it. This policy that she's advocating today reflects much of it. I can't quite find contradictions in it. 
   So we need to understand, Madam Speaker, that this debate is not about trying to provide health insurance to kids that don't have it. Many say it's providing health care to kids that don't have it. But we know this: Every kid in America has access to health care. Most kids have health insurance. At 200 percent of poverty, you're looking at 77 percent of those kids that have insurance. Maybe that number is a big number of kids that don't have health insurance, but they all have access to health care. 
   This debate isn't about the health of the kids. We didn't hear examples in any significant statistical number of kids that are suffering because they don't have access to health care. We heard a socialized medicine debate here on this floor, Madam Speaker. And that is what is going on in America. 
   This is where the landing zone is being prepared for the presidential candidates who are advocating for a single-payer Canadian-style or nationally-mandated socialized medicine program. They think it's their ticket to the White House. They think the American people want to become even more dependent yet on the nanny-state of government. 
   Well, Madam Speaker, I oppose that kind of a philosophy. Myself and many millions of Americans oppose that kind of philosophy. We are still out there, Harry and Louise; we are out there, Phil Graham. We are still going to stand here and we are going to oppose a Federally-mandated, single-payer, Canadian-style socialized medicine health care system in this country, and we are going to oppose the expansion of current SCHIP law that goes beyond the 200 percent of poverty, up to the 300 percent and more, and allowing, by the way, the States to discount the income so that that 200 percent, now 300 percent of poverty, goes higher than that yet. 
   We are going to oppose all of that, because what we are really talking about here is the Pelosi Congress laying the cornerstone to the next generation of socialized medicine. SCHIP is the cornerstone of the next generation of socialized medicine, Madam Speaker, and I oppose it primarily for that reason. 
   I want to point out that this country has the best health care system in the world. Yes, it's expensive. Yes, it consumes perhaps 17 percent of our GDP. That is a lot. We pay for it because health care is worth it to us. If it were not, we would say, I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to pay the premium. Give me my money in my wages. I don't want that to go off to my health insurance. I think I am going to take some risks with my health. I don't want that test. See if you can keep my premiums a little cheaper, because you're spending a little too much time. No. 
   Madam Speaker, we are for high quality health care, and when it comes to our health, as people in this Nation, and our lives, no cost is too high for us. Because of that, it has driven research and development and driven the educational institutions and the research hospitals. The system that we have out there that produces new doctors and nurses and inventors and the infrastructure of our hospitals and clinics  and a delivery system and the medical equipment that has been developed over the last generation or two is an amazing thing to understand in its broader scope. All of those things are rooted in a belief that we need to provide ever better health care for our people. It has extended our lives and it has extended the quality of our lives. We have been willing to pay for that. 
   Now, I think there are many things we can do to keep the costs down and provide more efficiency. One of those would be a digital recordkeeping system that would allow for a Web page for all the prescriptions of a patient to go on there, and have a firewall for security, and allow a doctor to put in a patient's records and instantly be able to read the entire file from anywhere in the country, anywhere in the world. I think we will get there. 
   Those are some things we can work with as to having an integrated medical records system. It will save lives and it will save money. It will avoid duplicate prescriptions and avoid duplicate tests and duplicate x-rays, list after list of things that can be more efficient. That is not something you produce and drive here by saying we need to go to a single-payer plan or socialized medicine plan. That is something government can help facilitate, and I think we should. 
   I want to have my choices. And I think we also need to grow these HSAs and increase the amount of deductible that goes into the HSAs and allow the insurance company and encourage them to produce plans that adjust the premiums, so if people have healthy lifestyles, that is reflected in a cheaper premium. And if that can be reflected in a cheaper premium, they can roll more dollars into an HSA, and if they have control of management of that from the standpoint of if they live healthy lifestyles and they go in and get regular checkups, they will see cheaper premiums, which allows them to grow their HSA. And if that happens, when there is enough money in their HSA, they can raise the amount of their deductible and lower their premium, which will take less dollars out of their paycheck, and as that transition goes on, they might want to have a larger copayment as their HSA becomes larger and larger. 
   Meanwhile, insurance becomes more what it is about. 
   It doesn't need to be about covering every medical treatment, the loose-change medical treatment. It needs to be for the catastrophic, those that would knock us down economically and cause us to have to rebuild ourselves again. 
   We can structure this system so there is more responsibility in it, less litigation it. We can limit the medical malpractice, and we need to do that. I don't expect this Pelosi Congress will do this, Madam Speaker, but I do expect the American people are going to understand where their costs are and want to elect a Congress that will follow through on the medical malpractice and will grow the HSAs and will give us back even more of our freedom when it comes to health care and health insurance, not less. 
   SCHIP is the cornerstone of socialized medicine, and it is wrong to advance ourselves down that path. It also results in a 156 percent increase in taxes, that is the tobacco tax that I mentioned, and it has no fiscal responsibility. It also has a cliff in the funding. 
   The funding of this system that is here, even under the 300 percent version that was the last version passed off of this House, the funding is set up so it will require there be an additional 22.4 million smokers recruited to go on the smoking rolls in order to fund this SCHIP. So if you increase the cost of a pack of cigarettes and you presume that there will be 22.4 million more smokers, when taxes in the Federal are a buck a pack and a lot the States have very high taxes as well, would one have to conclude there will be fewer smokers instead of more, and those that are fewer will also smoke less because of the cost? 
   This inverse ratio then result in the Heritage Foundation's estimate of 22.4 million new smokers to fund this over the next 10 years. Then this funding that is set up is a gimmick funding that produces a cliff, a cliff that happens in the funding, the acceleration of the funding, which will be the collection of increased tobacco taxes until the year 2011. At the year 2011, it hits the spot where there is the drop off in revenue. There is no provision to continue the revenue, and as things stop, you there will be a drop in revenue of 75 percent. No provisions for how to fund the increase in costs that are sailing off into the stratosphere. Instead, there is a 75 percent cut in the revenue. The revenue drops off of a cliff. 
   What we know then is they will come to this Congress and say, well, you can't say no to all these kids, these 89 or 95 percent of the kids in America that have been talked off of their private health insurance and talked on to a government-funded health insurance. You can't say no to them. So in order to fund them, you are going to have to raise taxes or increase the national debt. 
   That is what is in store for us with this SCHIP program that we are dealing with today, Madam Speaker. 
   Then, not the least of which, but among it, is the lowering of the standards on requirements for qualification. We have State agencies that have been requiring birth certificates, passports and other verifiable documents that demonstrate lawful presence in the United States, that demonstrate citizenship, so that we are not providing these kind of benefits to people who are otherwise, actually in fact at the time, deportable. 
   I mean, to give taxpayer dollars off to people who are deportable is a deplorable thing to do, and it is beneath the standards that have been set by the previous Congresses. And so this SCHIP legislation that is there allows the States to waive a passport requirement, waive a birth certificate, citizenship-proving requirement, and allows them to simply accept a Social Security number. 
   Now, some will argue that there is a line in the bill that says that these funds can't go to illegals. But, Madam Speaker, the legislation in the bill doesn't require the States to verify citizenship or lawful presence. It doesn't require them to ask for a passport or a birth certificate. In fact, it stipulates that they can accept a Social Security number. And it may actually be a valid Social Security number, but the Social Security Administration themselves have said there is no way to verify that that number actually represents the person that you have before you. 
   We know that from our immigration debates, and we also know that there are thousands, in fact millions of illegals in America who are working in this country under a false Social Security number. That is the same standard by which we would grant SCHIP benefits to illegals that are here, who otherwise are deportable in the United States. 
   This SCHIP legislation weakens the standards. It wasn't content to stay with the standards that we had. I didn't hear complaints about the standards that we had. We asked for verification of lawful presence in the United States. No, just produce a Social Security number. So if you can beg, borrow or steal someone's Social Security number and you present that, that can be accepted by the States as adequate proof of lawful presence in the United States. 
   So this law, this SCHIP legislation, opens the door up for more benefits to go to illegals. And when I say that, I mean people that are deportable, those who, if adjudicated, will be sent to their home country. 
   That shows one of the things that is wrong with this government, this permissiveness. The Federal Government has enforced our immigration laws less and less over the last 20 years, and this is another piece of it. This same party that brings this permissiveness, this subsidy for deportables, was the same party that advocates for border security. Now, that, Madam Speaker is another dichotomy that I find to be a bit ironic. 
   So I stand on the rule of law. I think that our laws should be enforced. I think if people violate those laws, you have to enforce it and you have to adjudicate them, and you have to sometimes make an example so the rest of the public recognizes that this is a nation of laws. 
   But this SCHIP law undermines our national security, it encourages the subsidy of illegals, and it will require another 22.4 million new smokers. It will cost my State of Iowa a net of $226  million. That is the figure that is produced by the Center for Disease Control, that shows that when you add the new taxes into my State and all the money that gets added up on the taxes that would be collected in Iowa, and then you subtract from it the extra grants that would go into Iowa to take care of raising the SCHIP from 200 of poverty to 300 percent of poverty, from $51,625 for a family of four, up to $77,430 for a family of four, you do that math, extra taxes taken out of the State, grants for SCHIP coming back in, the net, not a net gain for Iowa, Governor Culver, I hate to tell you this, it is a net loss of $226 million. So, it isn't even fiscally prudent for Iowans to engage in this. 
   There are other states that have a net loss as well, according to the Center for Disease Control. The title of this is SCHIP Expansions, Winners and Losers, Net Impact on States New Grants. 
   This is, Madam Speaker, the look of the map that is produced here, and this is the data that has been delivered by the Center For Disease Control. The map is produced by one of our Members of Congress, I believe. 
   But, at any rate, Iowa loses $226 million. Our neighbors in Wisconsin, $330 million. Missouri, our neighbors to the south, $496 million. Florida loses $703 million, Madam Speaker. That might be of particular interest to you. $703 million. South Carolina, $239 million. North Carolina, $536 million. This list goes on and on. Kentucky, $602 million. Indiana, minus $517 million. Ohio, minus $426 million.     
   So there are winners and losers. There is a transfer of tax dollars and a transfer of wealth that takes place with this SCHIP legislation. The transfer of wealth just shows what an economic boondoggle it is for some States. It shows also that some States, their leadership is clamoring for this SCHIP increase. I haven't noticed Republican Governors clamoring for SCHIP increase. I haven't noticed Republican candidates for the Presidency clamoring for an SCHIP increase. They recognize that this increase to 300 percent of poverty, that the attempt to take it to 400 percent of poverty, this attempt to talk kids off of private health insurance, is the cornerstone for Hillarycare, for socialized medicine and lays a foundation for the Presidential debates that will be unfolding from this point until November 2008. 
   It sets it as the central issue for the Presidency in the event that MoveOn.org and the get out of Iraq at any cost pacifists can't make that issue stick. If they lose that debate, as said by the Democrat whip, that is a big problem for Democrats if there is a good report from General Petraeus. 
   Well, the report he delivered to us was honest and objective. It was delivered by a patriot. It was delivered by a man who I believe knows more about Iraq and our military operations as well as the political and economic operations there than anybody in the world. It was objective. It was delivered prudently, carefully and factually. And yet, as John Adams said, facts are stubborn things. 
   Whatever we might choose to do, we can't escape the result of the facts. The facts support a continuing improvement in Iraq. The facts indicate that this debate that is going down this path on SCHIP is not a debate about getting health insurance to kids. This is a debate about laying the cornerstone for socialized health care in the United States. 
   I think it is utterly wrong and undermines our free market economy. I think it takes away the freedom of the American people. If you take away the freedom of any people, you undermine their productivity and you take away their spirit. If you are a Nation that provides, if you become the nanny state and you provide everything that people want, and FDR created those freedoms, some of these are constitutional, two of them were extra-constitutional, freedom from want and freedom from fear. 
   This SCHIP plan fits into that idea that people should be free of want and free of fear. They shouldn't fear not having health insurance for their children, and they shouldn't want for anything. This has gotten so bizarre in this Pelosi Congress that we have a farm bill that came to this floor and is passed over to the Senate now that has increased the food stamps, the nutrition component of the bill, by 46 percent. Even though the proponents of that bill could not find a statistical argument that there were components of Americans that were suffering from hunger or malnutrition, in fact they had to admit that people were getting their past meals and they knew where their next meals were coming from, but they stated that people had food insecurity, I'll call it food anxiety. And so because sometimes they weren't sure that some of those meals down the line might not be there, they ate more. 
   Madam Speaker, I think it is an appropriate thing to get me down to this closing here because it is ironic to quote from the testimony that came before the Agriculture Committee. This would be testimony by Janet Murguia, March 13, 2007, representing LaRaza testifying on food stamps about food insecurity. This is a quote: ``There is also mounting evidence that the overweight and obesity trends in the United States are due in part to high levels of food insecurity.'' 
   In other words, food anxiety, food insecurity cause people to overeat. They become overweight and if we give them more food from the taxpayers' dollar, then they would eat less and be more healthy and slender and all would be wonderful. 
   Yes, I guess if you are committed that tax increases and more government responsibility and less personal responsibility are the solution to everything, you can even include the idea that if you give them more food stamps, they would eat less as part of your rationale. It is no more rational here to take SCHIP and take it up to 300 or even 400 percent of poverty. The only rationale I see here is socialized medicine. Lay the cornerstone for socialized medicine, lay the cornerstone for the Hillary campaign for the Presidency. 
   Pick up this speech from September of 2003, ``Move Ahead Into Socialism.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (PROMOTING THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE UNITY ACT -- (House of Representatives - December 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor and privilege to be recognized to address you here on the floor of the United States Congress again. As many of the Members move forward to go home for the weekend and spend time with their families and their constituents and get in touch with the issues of the day, I delayed my transportation, so I have an opportunity to address you and, in the process, address the American people. 
   It occurs to me that there is subject after subject that doesn't quite emerge here on the floor of this Congress for an open topic of debate, and there are central issues around which we should be shaping policy, that policy that affects and directs the destiny of our country. 
   Some would say that the bill that passed here off the floor, the energy bill, will solve our energy problems and move our destiny in the right direction. I am a skeptic of that, Mr. Speaker. I don't come to address that so much. 
   But I believe this, that as a people we must be bound together. There is something unique about being an American. It is something unique, that it is different than coming from another nation in the world. We brought together all people from all cultures and all civilizations and assimilated them into this society to produce a common culture, a form of cultural continuity that binds us together as Americans. 
   As I listen and engage in debate, and as I read and study history and watch the reactions of people around me and think what it must have been like 50 years ago, when I wasn't quite paying attention in this country, or 100 years ago, when I wasn't around, or 200 years ago obviously, as America was shaped, what is it that is unique about us? What has given us our vitality? What has bound us together so that we can work together as one people? 
   There are a number of common denominators. We live in the same geographical area, we share a common history and we adhere to the rule of law. English common law flowed across the Atlantic Ocean and was established here in this continent, actually not too far down the coastline down at Jamestown in 1607 in Virginia. Four hundred years ago English common law arrived here in the United States. 
   But another thing that has taken place that is a common denominator, that has bound us together, that has been a powerful force for our society, for the American interests, and a powerful force throughout all humanity, is to have a common language. 
   Now, one can just take the globe at about any time, and let's just say going backwards across history, generation by generation, recognizing that national boundaries have shifted over time. They shift because of political transformations within the countries and they shift because of wars. 
   You can take this back to the city-state era before we actually had nation-states, and identify that the boundaries around the city-states and the boundaries around the nation-states from 300 years ago and earlier were often boundaries that were drawn by lines of language. 
   Languages grew up in colloquial regions, and because people communicated with each other verbally, languages evolved. And because people didn't travel in those days the way they travel today, then the languages that evolved in certain locales got more and more distinct and more difficult for the neighbors to understand. 
   Of course, we track language through, and because of commonalities in language, we also track the migrations and histories of people. But a common language has defined the boundaries of nation-states throughout history. 
   In France, they speak French; in England, they speak English; in Spain, they speak Spanish; in Portugal, they speak Portuguese; in China they speak Chinese; in Russia, they speak Russian. Why is that? I never hear anybody talk about that. But the reason for that is because common languages, the languages have defined the boundaries of nations, of nation-states. 
   Why does a nation-state have a boundary that is defined by its languages? It is because they are a common people. Whether they are Italians or Spaniards or French, they are a common people that are bound together by a common language. They have a common cause. They have a common sense of history. They work together. They communicate with each other. They do business together with far less suspicion because they can communicate quickly and effectively and efficiently with a common language. 
   There are things that come through languages that cannot be written into print, into the Congressional Record, for example. There is voice inflections. There are pauses that are parts of communication. There are certain kinds of pronunciations that change the meaning of a sentence. You can write a sentence out in English, and if you change the meaning of the word ``read'' and ``read,'' it spells the same but it means something different. There are all kinds of pronunciations and voice inflections throughout all languages that change the meaning of the communications of that language. 
   Because of all the nuances that come from the languages and because of the difficulty in understanding very many different languages, we tend to bind ourselves together, pulled around a common sense of purpose, which is a common language. 
   The strength of America is also common with the strength of many of the other nations, the nations that I mentioned. We have had a common language, too. The common language here in the United States has been English. It has been English since the beginning of the settlement in this continent. Yes, there have been challenges to it. We know there was a challenge from the German language. If I remember correctly, it was Benjamin Franklin who said that if we weren't careful, that the Germans would assimilate the English speakers before they were assimilated into the English-speaking culture. 
   But we know that didn't happen. We know that the English language prevailed. And we know that there have been significantly sized enclaves in America that persisted in hanging on to a language other than English, but  eventually, historically, they have assimilated into all speaking this common language called English. 
   Well, if one were going to shape and develop and devise a nation-state that had the very best prospect of succeeding and prospering, one of those essential components, and perhaps the most essential component, would be that the people of a nation-state speak a common language. 
   We have understood that in this country since the beginning of the establishment of the United States of America. In fact, Noah Webster I think understood it I think as well as anyone in the history of our country. 
   When we think about the history of Noah Webster, the author of the original American English dictionary, as he traveled around through the 13 original colonies of his time and he entered into region after region, he noticed that sometimes he couldn't understand what they were saying. They were all speaking English, most of them were speaking English, but they had chosen to use certain terms in a different way. They had adopted definitions on to other words. They had changed their pronunciations of words. And as he watched this and as he traveled and listened, he began to realize that the colloquial regions in the United States were forming and shaping their own unique languages. Even though they were rooted in English for the most part, he didn't believe it would be very long, another generation or two, and the American people would be no longer speaking the same language; that other languages were evolving from the English language that arrived here, and that eventually some regions in the United States wouldn't be able to communicate with their neighbors. 
   And Noah Webster believed, and I think correctly, that that would have brought about divisions within the United States, and we would eventually not be a unified country because of our inability to communicate with each other. And even though there is always a way to facilitate communication, even though we can do sign language and we can write notes and we can get an interpreter and exchange communications, and we do that, of course, in this country every day in our international trade constantly, that is not the same as having an instantaneous form of communication where everyone understands everybody and we have that ability to exchange ideas and measure the voice inflection and the pronunciation so that the communication of the message is clear. 
   Noah Webster understood that. So he set about writing the American English dictionary for that purpose, to be able to provide a common use of language, to provide a common language for the United States, an official language for the United States. 
   It was Noah Webster's dream that in the Constitution of the United States there would be a constitutional amendment that would establish English as the official language of the United States of America. He didn't see his dream realized, partly because he helped solve the problem by drafting and writing his American English dictionary. He did so for the express purpose of providing a common language, a utilization of the English language that would be universal from Maine to Florida, all the way up and down the coast of the 13 original colonies, because he understood that if people persisted in different pronunciations for the same word and different definitional use of the same word, that eventually the communications would break down among us as a people and we would be pitted eventually against each other. We would begin to see our neighbors as someone other than our friend and our neighbor and our countryman because we couldn't easily communicate with him. 
   So he wrote the American English dictionary, established a common language in the United States, and to some extent solved the problem, and it was not necessary in those years to pass a constitutional amendment to establish English as the official language of the United States. 
   That is the history of Noah Webster and that is the contribution that he gave to this country. And I think that he established that principle of a common language of English and protected it and preserved it. And if we never had Webster, if we had not had someone who had the vision to establish a common language for our country, we may not have held together throughout those years. We may not have actually gotten through the Civil War and bonded ourselves back together again. We might not have fought side by side in the Spanish-American War or World War I or World War II. We might not be the world's only unchallenged superpower today, if we hadn't had the wisdom of the early settlers in the United States, if we hadn't had the wisdom of the Founders, if we hadn't had the wisdom of a Noah Webster to establish English as a common language here in the United States of America. 
   Now, I want to make the point that in those years there were other languages that could have been just as successful. English was the language that was the language of our original settlers here in the largest number. It could have been German, it could have been French, it could have been Spanish. You can make a case for that throughout history. 
   But whatever that case is, it is English today. And English happens to be also the global language of commerce. It is the language we do business in in the world. It is the language that we negotiate politically in. At the roundtable in Brussels, at the European Union, when we sit around that roundtable and negotiate with all of those member nations, now I can't actually keep track, it was 15 when I was there last, I think it has gone to 25. But the language of negotiations in Europe around the roundtable at Brussels in the European Union is English. The representatives there, the French speak English, the Spanish speak English, the Portuguese speak English, because there needs to be a common language of communication. What will it be? 
   What will the documents be printed in? Do they get printed in 300-some languages that we commonly talk of as being the utilized number of languages in the globe? Or can it be printed in one? Well, if you have a common language, one is it. There is only one definition, there is only one understanding, and there is no misunderstanding, at least substantially less misunderstanding, excuse me. 
   So if a common language, an official language, a language of communications at the European Union in Brussels is English, and if the international language of business and commerce is English, and it is, and the international language of air traffic controllers that commands all airplanes that are flying and being controlled by air traffic controllers in America is English, and it is, and if the language of the maritime industry, the language that tells ships how to avoid running into each other in the fog is English, and English is the common language of the United States of America, and it gives us a competitive advantage with the rest of the world that does not speak English as fluently when it comes to business, and if it is the language we use when we negotiate in our trade relationships with other countries and the language we use when we negotiate our political disagreements and arrive at our agreements is English, then there is no case that I can think of to be made for the official language of the United States being anything else other than English.     
   And, Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor tonight to promote a piece of legislation, H.R. 997, the English Language Unity Act, and it establishes English as the official language of the United States of America. 
   I have just made the case that we didn't need to do that in the early 1800s or the early 1900s, because the people of this country understood the utility of having a common language, English, and because many of the people who came here as legal immigrants adopted themselves to and adapted themselves to and assimilated themselves into an English-speaking culture. 
   One of the examples would be my grandmother, who arrived here from Germany on March 26, 1894, and she walked through the Great Hall at Ellis Island. She came on the ship New York. Her name is on the manifest. And as she traveled across the United States, having made a commitment to this country, she got married to my grandfather. But my father was raised in a German-speaking home. And when he went to kindergarten on his first  day, which is interesting, a German term ``kindergarten,'' and it is kindergarten all over America even though it is a German term, but he came back from his first day. He went to kindergarten speaking German, he came back from his first day and said hello to his mother in German. And as my grandmother was working in the kitchen and welcomed him home from his first day of school, she turned to him when he had greeted him in German and said to my father, Speaking German in this household is for you from now on verboten. I came here to become an American and I need to learn English. And you shall go to school and learn English and bring it home and teach it to me. And from that moment forward, my father was forbidden from speaking German in his household because his job was to learn English, to embrace America, to embrace this host Nation, and to teach English to his mother, which he did pretty well. 
   He never taught her I don't think to get rid of her accent, but she certainly spoke English well enough that I never saw within her an inability to communicate. I always understood her when she told me what to do. But that tone, that acceptance of the host country, America, and the need to honor that by learning the language of the country that received the immigrants, English. And in turn, this country has rewarded people who have learned the English language and assimilated themselves into this culture, because they are rewarded through the chain of commerce, the job opportunities that are there. 
   And, yes, I know, I run into people that are entrepreneurs that didn't learn English and they did well marketing their goods and doing business. And they said, why did I learn English? I will say they could have done better than they did. A good person with English language skills in this country has an advantage over a good person without English language skills in this country. It is true in every culture and every civilization, if you speak the common language of the country that you are in, then you have an advantage when it comes to business, you have an advantage when it comes to education. In fact it is very, very difficult if not impossible to understand the history and the culture of America without understanding the language of this country. I don't know how that could be done without understanding the language of this country to understand it thoroughly. So I believe we need to establish English as the official language of the United States. 
   This is not a unique concept to the rest of the world, Mr. Speaker. In fact, it is unique that we do not have an official language here in the United States. 
   I sat down a few years ago and got down a world almanac. And if you turn to the page where the flags are, there is a flag for each of the countries in the world. And I sat next to me the ``World Book Encyclopedia,'' this is pre-digital era; now I would look it up on the Internet. But as I turned the pages through the ``World Book Encyclopedia,'' I looked up every country in the world, every country that had a flag registered in the ``World Almanac.'' And there in the ``World Book Encyclopedia,'' in the first paragraph of the description of the countries it will show ``official language.'' I looked up the official language of every country in the world, and there was an official language, at least one, some have several, but at least one official language on record in the ``World Book Encyclopedia'' for every nation on this planet except the United States of America. 
   So when we talk about establishing an official language here, English, the official language of the United States, and I hear people cry out that somehow that is a major inconvenience to people who come here speaking other languages and that we don't need an official language, that kind of argument defies the logic of the rest of the world. The logic of the rest of the world understands that there has to be official documents, there have to be official proceedings. There has to be an agreement on what language means. And if we will accept any language into our official activities here in the Federal Government, then we are forever litigating the differences between the interpretations of those languages. 
   For example, let's just say that we had two people that came together and signed a contract, and one of them wanted that contract in Vietnamese and the other wanted the contract in Korean. And so they agreed verbally, even though they didn't communicate with each other because of a lack of the common language skill, that they would have a contract each in Korean and Vietnamese. And they each then signed the contract. The one provider who signed the contract was, let's say, the owner who was going to pay to have their house remodeled, they have a misunderstanding. And the contractor who adheres to the Korean language says: I have a disagreement; you've not upheld your end of this contract. And the owner, who might have this contract that he understands in Vietnamese, says: You have not held up your end of the contract. 
   How do we litigate something like that within the courts of the United States of America when there is a disagreement on the interpretation between two languages that are not common languages in the United States but official languages of the countries where they came from? 
   Can we be litigating those kind of disagreements? Or can we simply say, a contract with the Federal Government is an official document; it shall be in English. If you choose to interpret that into another language for the purposes of the utility of your needs, that is fine with us, but we aren't going to litigate the difference in the courts of America because of people who refuse to use the official language of the United States, which needs to be established as English. That is one explanation. 
   Another explanation of this, of that need, would be, as I sat down with one of the ambassadors to the United States from Israel just a few years ago, he explained to the group, and if I remember correctly, it was the Policy Committee that was hosting the ambassador, that Israel had established Hebrew as the official language of Israel in 1954. Mr. Speaker, I would remind you that Israel was established as a nation in 1948, and just 6 years after they became a nation, certainly they had war, they had turmoil, they were at great risk, but they were shaping and laying the foundations for a nation that was going to have enemies surrounding them in all directions. 
   A very precarious spot for a nation to be in, the most important things needed to be focused upon, and the very best and most effective foundations for a nation needed to be laid, and yet just 6 years after they were established as a country they established Hebrew as the official language of Israel. 
   And I asked the ambassador, Why did you do this? Why did you establish an official language, and why did you choose Hebrew? And he said, We saw the success in the United States of assimilation from people all over the world coming into the United States and being accepted as Americans. We recognized that we were bringing refugees from all over the world, mostly Jews, to come live in Israel, reaching out to them; and they spoke languages from dozens of different countries and we didn't have a common language in Israel. We needed a language that bound us all together and identified us as Israelis and so we chose Hebrew. 
   And I asked again, but why Hebrew? Hebrew had been the language that was used primarily and almost exclusively in prayer for the last 2,000 years. The Israelis resurrected basically a dead language as far as street communication, business communication, commerce was concerned, and they brought Hebrew back up again and established it as the official language of their country and taught the Hebrew language to all Israelis. And today, as someone immigrates into Israel, they go to an assimilation center, I will call it; they have a different name which I don't recall, where they are taught in 6 months to learn the Hebrew language and to go out and function and perform within the broader society of Israel. So Israelis that learned Hebrew have that unique identifying quality. They can walk up to any other Israeli, speak to each other in Hebrew, and they will be bound together in the nation of Israel by that common language. 
   And just as an aside, Mr. Speaker, those who come to Israel who come from countries where they may be illiterate in their native language, the Israelis then teach them to be literate in the written and spoken word of their native language, and then transition  them into Hebrew, teaching them the written and the spoken language of Hebrew. That is about an 18-month process rather than the 6-month process of those who are literate in their own language who come into Israel and are taught Hebrew. 
   They make this work. This is not a language that is known very much throughout the world. They resurrected a language that wasn't utilized, but they identified that a common language would bind people together in the nation state and that would help them work together and help them struggle together and help them fight together to defend themselves from their enemies from without. And one of the powerful, unifying forces they recognized was a common language. 
   And, here in this country, we remain the only country in the world that doesn't have an official language. We say English is our common language, but we have forces out here seeking to subdivide us, and we have billions of dollars that flow out of this Congress that go into the hands of people who are promoting division in America and not unity in America. The message that many immigrants get when they arrive here in this country is, if you learn English, and this message is clearly given as part of the debate here on the floor, if you learn English, you give up your own culture. That is the message that we hear. 
   Not true. In my neighborhood, I look around my neighborhood and certain communities that were ethnic enclaves when they were settled, German, Danish, Irish, Swedish, to name a few in my neighborhood, but the people that came here speaking a foreign language have adapted into English, and hardly any of them speak another language other than English that live there. But you could not convince them that they have given up their culture. You can't convince a German that their culture has changed dramatically because they have adhered to a common language here. 
   Now, I think utilization of other languages and language skills are a good thing, and I encourage young people to study foreign languages. I use that in the analysis of culture and use that in trade and use that in foreign travel and use that to help open up our negotiations and discussions and reduce the friction and the conflict from nation to nation. Those are all good things. But a common language within a country binds it together, and accepting English as our official language means that the people who do so are tied more to a common sense of history, more to a common cause. 
   As I listened to testimony that came before the small business community sometime back, we had a witness that came in who was second in command to Elaine Chao, the Department of Labor, and she testified that they had difficulty in finding enough workers who could go into a factory and be taught how to run the punch press or the lathe or common manufacturing equipment, not because they lacked the education and not because they lacked the intellectual ability, the brain power, so to speak, Mr. Speaker. No, because they lacked the language skills. They didn't understand enough English, so they couldn't be taught how to run a punch press or a lathe. They couldn't work in that environment because of the lack of language skills. 
   And so I listened to that testimony and I said to the witness, I can understand why you would have that difficulty with first-generation immigrants. But can you tell me, do you encounter second-generation immigrants, people who were born in the United States of America, born into an English-speaking country, that haven't learned to speak English? Are they part of this problem? Do you run across those incidents? And into the Congressional Record she answered me, Yes, we do. We run into second-generation immigrants, native-born Americans that don't learn enough English to work in that factory. In fact, we have third-generation Americans that haven't learned enough English to go to work in these factories. And they are not included in the opportunities that are provided by the jobs in these regions because, if they haven't learned the language enough to work in the factory by three generations, now how do we convince the rest of the public and how am I to be convinced that they have assimilated into society, that they adhere to the American Dream, that they salute the flag and know the Pledge and say the Pledge?     
   How do we know that they would put on the uniform of this country and defend America? What would indicate to us that they have embraced this host Nation? If the grandchildren of the immigrants who move here don't learn English, what does that tell us about our society? Have we failed them? Have they failed us? I would submit, Mr. Speaker, it is some of each. They have failed to embrace this country and we have failed to set up a system that brings them in and welcomes them into our society and gives them the skills that allow them to be successful and feel they are part of this great Nation and part of this citizenship of being an American that is such a blessing. 
   Another argument that argues compellingly for an official language here in the United States goes back to 245 B.C. That is before Christ, for those of you who are getting the modern-day education. So 245 B.C., the first emperor of China, and they have tried to teach me how to say that in Chinese. I have never learned, but it is Qin Shi Huangdi. So Qin Shi Huangdi, the first emperor of China, pronounced correctly by the Chinese, not by me, had a vision. He recognized that there were 300-some provinces in China, separate regional areas. Certainly there were that many different colloquial languages that were in China. 
   As he traveled around that part of the world that we see today as China, he recognized that they had a common culture. The Chinese people, as we know them today, wear similar clothing and have similar work habits. They had had similar religions across the spectrum to some degree, and yet they didn't speak a common language and so they couldn't communicate with each other, which means that they didn't trade and travel. And when enemies came from without, they were not able to organize themselves to defend themselves from within because they didn't have the communication skills and ability to speak a common language. 
   So the first emperor of China looked about and decided I am going to establish a common language for China. He hired a group of scribes, scholars of the day, and said go to work and write a common language. I want all of the Chinese people to be able to communicate in the same language. 
   The scribes sat down and drafted this language, and the language that was created by the scribes under the first emperor of China is a language that has about 5,000 commonly used characters, about 50,000 out at the limits of the expanse of the varieties of the characters, picture words is how they have put that together, and I can't begin to understand it, but I can tell you that the common language that was created, especially the written language of the Chinese, has bound them together. They recognize the writing and they can read script that comes from any corner of the country. 
   So 245 B.C. is about the era that this began, and the first emperor of China's vision was to unite the Chinese people for the next 10,000 years. For the next 10,000 years. What a dream. We are about a fourth of the way through that and there is no sign that the Chinese people are going to be ununited or disunited. And yes, they have different versions of the Chinese language that they do speak on the continent. Cantonese and Mandarin come to mind, but the written language is the same. And the literate Chinese can read and write it. And it has to be hard to put those pictures together on a Chinese keyboard today, but they do it. And they are bound together as one people. 
   And the vision of the first emperor of China was that he saw some other commonalities that he wanted to establish. Also, there were sections of the Great Wall of China that were not connected, and so the invaders from without could go around the wall and come in. The first emperor of China connected the sections of the walls of China so it became one Great Wall instead of disconnected sections of the wall. 
   And he established the terra-cotta guards. He also recognized the widths of the ox carts weren't the same and so the ruts would put stress on the wheels and you might break a wheel. He standardized the axle spacing of the ox carts so they could travel and do commerce. He had a vision, a standardization.  
   Imagine a train, an engine and a set of cars of a train that has a different width of track. When you reach another set of track, you have to off-load your cargo and put it on a car that will travel on that different width. 
   What would it be like if every State in the Union had a different width for the railcars? It would debilitate rail travel, so we standardize it. We have one gauge of track that takes you anywhere in the United States of America. 
   We have had one language that takes you anywhere in the United States of America, until such time as the multiculturalists cut loose here in the last 20 to 30 years and began to try to convince people, don't assimilate into this culture, just simply hang onto the culture you brought with you and dig yourself in in an ethnic enclave and raise two and three and maybe even a fourth generation of people whose hope lies within the enclave and not with the Nation outside the enclave. 
   It doesn't make sense, Mr. Speaker, for us not to have an official language here in the United States because an official language provides a motivation and an incentive for all regions of the country to adapt themselves to an official language. 
   If they do that, then they will be teaching English within the enclaves in America, the places where I can't go to communicate with anybody anymore. And why do I, in the heartland of America, need to walk into a bank or convenience store and get out my card at an ATM, and I stick my card in there and the first question it asks me is: What language do you want to communicate in? I have to read all of that. If I read it from the bottom to the top, it will burn up to 7 or 8 seconds until I get to the top. Then I push the English button and wait for the transaction to light up the screen. If you push the button wrong, you have to start guessing again to back out of it. 
   Because we provide multiple languages on street signs or multiple languages on ATMs and multiple languages on directions, it doesn't help people have an incentive to learn English. 
   Mr. Speaker, it works like this. If I pull up to a stop sign in Kuwait and in Arabic it says ``stop'' and in English it says ``stop,'' my eyes go to the language that I understand. No matter how hard I try to memorize what ``stop'' looks like in Arabic, I am never going to learn Arabic because it is always there enabling me to take the English way out, the easy way out, the part that I know. 
   And if we provide ATMs in foreign languages, I don't have a law that bans that. That is a free commerce idea. Please do what you want to do, bankers. If I have a choice, I will go to the ATM that gives it to me only in English because I don't want the confusion. But that is a free market plan. I don't disagree with that, but I am making the point that multiple language availability does nothing but enable people to continue living in the enclave and not assimilate and learn the language. 
   So official documents and proceedings here in the United States need to be in English. I ask the States to establish and pass the same kind of policy. And there are nearly 30 States that do have English as the official language. Iowa is one of them. I did spend 6 years 
   establishing English as the official language of the State of Iowa. That requires that all official documents and official proceedings be in English. And it has commonsense exceptions like justice. You wouldn't lock up a criminal if they didn't understand the charges against them. We would provide health care to people regardless of whether they understood the language or not. 
   We do provide driver's license tests in at least six different languages. I disagree with that. I do believe that should not be an exception. But regardless, that is the policy that is out there. A number approaching and maybe actually meeting 30 States have English as the official language in one form or another to pull people together, to bind us together, not to divide us apart. 
   And the effort to divide constantly comes from this side of the aisle and it pits Americans against Americans. But we understand that the official language is inclusive not exclusive. Every nation in the world has an official language except the United States because it understands the unifying power of a common language. 
   The polls support this. You can look at polls that show from 82 percent of Americans support English as the official language on up to 88 percent of Americans support English as the official language. 
   English is a common form of communications currency in this country and in business and in air traffic control and in politics and in maritime industry throughout the world. We need to establish it here because holding that principle together sends the message to people who come here that this Congress, this Nation, the majority of the States from within, expect you to learn English. 
   They come here expecting to learn English. None of us go to a foreign country and seek to impose our language on the government of a foreign country. If I walk into a service in France, I will have to be doing business with them in French. They don't feel compelled to pay for my interpreter or to print road signs in languages in France other than French. 
   But one might take a look up to Quebec, a province in Canada, to give some instruction on what happens when a society is split apart by competing languages. Cultures follow down the line of language. When you speak a common language, it pulls your culture together. When you can't communicate with each other, it divides the culture. 
   So the French speakers in Quebec have been insistent that they continue speaking French. When you go into Quebec in those regions, the street signs are in French. There have been two votes in my memory, and one of them I believe was about a decade ago, where Quebec voted on whether to secede from the rest of Canada. And thinking about that, it was the Quebecois who had the decision to make. It wasn't put out for the rest of Canada, just the Quebecois. They came within less than 1 percentage point of separating Quebec from the rest of Canada. Had they done that, they would have effectively separated Canada into three separate geographical regions. Everything west of Quebec to the Pacific Ocean would have been a region, Quebec itself a separate region, and the maritime provinces on the east side a separate region. The English-speaking components of Canada would have been the east and west, and in the heart would have been Quebec, the French-speaking province. They came within less than 1 percentage point of seceding Quebec from the rest of Canada. And why? Because they insisted upon not speaking a common language of the nation that they were part of, Canada. 
   If you ask anybody in Canada that lived through that era and asked them if English had been the official language of Canada from its beginning, had been the language of educational instruction and science and technology and business in all of Canada, the remnants of the French language would have persisted and it would have existed within the culture and been part of the conversational language going on in Quebec, but it wouldn't have been a political divider. The wedge that came down between the Canadians was a wedge driven exactly along the lines of language because the lines of language define the lines of culture, and it separated people politically and pitted them against each other. 
   If they only communicated in a common language, all French or all English, there never would have been a vote that came up before the Canadian people, and the risk of that nation being fractured apart would never have been faced by the voters. There is always a movement by Quebec separatists, but it seems to have been tamped down recently. But language is the fault line. If you want to erase fault lines in nations, you need a common language for the nation. 
   So I will make the point, there has never been a successful multilingual nation in the history of the world. The Soviet Union would be a very good example of this. The Soviet Union was put together and cobbled together by force, by military force, by economic leverage. We looked at all of the different regions of the Soviet bloc, and I grew up living with that and doing the air raid drills at the same time, watching the Soviet Union and the distinctions between Russia and the balance of the Soviet satellite states.  
   If you look at those satellite states today after the wall came down on November 9, 1989, we saw freedom echoed across Eastern Europe all of the way to the Pacific Ocean, losing some of that today, it appears, in Russia. But the Nations that spun themselves off were nations that were distinct by language. The languages in the Baltic states re-established some of their languages as their official language. They were trying to impose Russian on them, and the Baltic states rejected that to some degree.     
   They've gone back and re-established their native languages as their official language. It binds them together as a people. Polish binds the Poles together. Bulgarian, well, that's another subject. But if we go down into a place like Kurdistan, they speak a distinct language. The languages again are the defined borders of the nation states that emerged when they broke away from the Soviet bloc after the wall came down in 1989. This is a simple concept to understand in history. If you watch the map change, of the world, watch it change historically, and as that map changes, ask yourselves, what are these lines? Are they lines of language? Generally, they are. The lines of language generally match the lines of culture. And if we can speak a common language, it binds us together as a common people. 
   And so H.R. 997, English is the official language, is a piece of legislation that establishes English as the official language of the United States of America. It requires that all official activities and documents of the government be in English, and provides commonsense exceptions so that we can continue to do business in this country without confusion, without lack of communication, and still, at the same time, we make those exceptions so that no one is disenfranchised that is in this country, at least legally, and has a legal access to some of those benefits. 
   I think about another form of history, or another experience in history that has to do with the Spaniards as they arrived in the New World and down into the Central American region. And if you remember, as the conquistadores moved their way northward, they went on into the areas of southern Arizona, as we know it today, the Pueblo Indian area. And there you had the Zunis, the Hopis and the Anasazi Native Americans that were in that region. They come to mind as I look back upon the history because, as the Spaniards invaded into that territory and as they came into the communities, the settlements, the Indian villages, it was easy for them to take on one village and raid that village and destroy the opposition within the village and enslave the balance of the Native Americans that were not killed in the invasion and the occupation of the villages. 
   And the Spanish conquistadores could go, in the 1500s, they could go from village to village. And even though those neighborhoods were common in culture, the Native Americans in that region wore similar clothing, ate similar foods, had similar habits and practices and similar work habits, they didn't speak a common language because they lived in enclaves. They hadn't traveled and traded. Because they didn't interchange their cultures, because they didn't have a common language, the Spanish were able to divide and conquer the Native Americans in that region in southern Arizona in the 1500s, the Zunis, the Hopis, and the Anasazis, and perhaps others. 
   But as the Native Americans were enslaved by the Spaniards, they were taken into the missions and there they were converted to Christianity and they were taught Spanish. They imposed the Spanish language on the Native Americans in the southern parts of Arizona. 
   And guess what happened, Mr. Speaker? The Native Americans, the Zunis, the Hopis and the Anasazis, they figured out that now they had a lingua franca, they had a common language, the common language being Spanish which was taught to them and imposed upon them within the missions in the southern part of the United States; and because now they had a common language they could bind together, maybe they came together, and they threw the Spanish out. For decades they kept the Spanish out of that region and they defended their own neighborhood and their own country because they had learned something from being occupied, and that was they learned a common language. Even though it wasn't their native language, it was the language of their conquerors, they adopted and adapted to the Spanish language and used that common language, that common form of communication as currency, a lingua franca, to throw out their oppressors and their invaders and live free for decades and some will say perhaps as long as 200 years before the Spanish were able to impose their will again on the Native Americans of that region. 
   That's a piece of history that's hard to find. It's hard to find a place to read. It's hard to find something to study on it. It's a component that I think is quite interesting and instructive. 
   A common language binds us together. It lets us communicate for a common cause. It's going to move this Nation forward and make us more successful than we have been in the past. It preserves our culture, our history, our heritage. It gives us a common experience. It ties us to our history, and it lets an American go from corner to corner, from Maine to California and from Washington to Florida, and pick up a newspaper or walk into a store or a church or a park or a school or anywhere and be able to communicate in a common form of communications currency, at least with government. And if government uses the common form, the incentive will be there for others to use that common form. 
   It doesn't discourage learning other languages. I encourage that we learn other languages in order to communicate with other countries. But to be a foreigner, to be a stranger in your homeland, to go to a region of America that 50 years ago was an English-speaking region and today, where people do not speak English, within the United States of America, tells me that we haven't done the job of assimilation. We haven't found the formula to promote this inclusiveness that's necessary to bind us together with the common form of communications currency. 
   And so the bill establishes English as the official language. It's very simple. It says, official language of the United States. The Federal Government shall have an affirmative obligation to preserve and enhance the role of English as the official language of the Federal Government. And the official functions of government are to be conducted in English. Official functions of the Government of the United States shall be in English. And then the practical exceptions that I mentioned earlier, Mr. Speaker, are exceptions for the teaching of languages, any requirements under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, any actions, documents or 
   policies necessary for national security, for international relations, trade, tourism or commerce, all excepted within the bill. It has exceptions of language requirements for documents that protect the public health and safety of the United States, or any documents that facilitate the activities of the census. 
   We need to be able to count people here. And any actions that protect the rights of victims of crimes or their defendants, the legal portion of this, and then any use of terms or art or phrases from languages other than English, and certainly, that would include the geographical regions like Iowa; that's a Native American name. 
   And so we also have a requirement here in the United States that if you're to be naturalized as an American citizen, you have an obligation, an affirmative obligation to demonstrate proficiency in both written and the spoken English language. And as I watch some of the naturalization ceremonies that we have, and I speak at a number of them, and I watch the reactions of those being naturalized, if I tell a joke in a speech in that environment, Mr. Speaker, those that get the joke laugh. And those that don't understand the language do not. It tells me that we really don't have a very high standard in requiring proficiency in English in order to be naturalized as an American citizen. 
   That is the law, Mr. Speaker. And the law is written with a vision in mind that we need to be bound together as one people. So I am here to endorse H.R. 997, English as the official language. It will bind us together as one people. It will give us a common form of communications currency. It  will make us a stronger and better Nation and a stronger and better people for generations to come. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONDOLENCES TO OMAHA VICTIMS -- (House of Representatives - December 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Nebraska for yielding. I stand here also with a heavy heart in joining with my colleagues from the west side of the Missouri River, and as we often stand together on policy and on issues that matter to the country and matter to our region, today we stand together in expressing our sympathies to the families of all of those involved in this tragic shooting. 
   As we move towards the Christmas season and the anticipation that brought people together in the Von Maur store, it's tragic that that was what was interrupted in such a brutal way, by such an act of insanity. Our thoughts and prayers go out to all the families of all involved; the families of the victims of those who were killed, the families of those who were wounded, those who were wounded, obviously, and also to the family of the shooter who committed that act of insanity, who must be going through an even more heightened sense of agony today and yesterday, and throughout, and perhaps the rest of their lives, an added measure of agony to those who have already suffered the incomprehensible loss of such a tragic incident. 
   I lost a constituent and had one wounded, and it has reached into the lives of the families on the Iowa side of the river. It is also true for each of the three Members of the Nebraska delegation, having lost at least one person that they represented here in Congress. We know that all families are affected. 
   And so we ask to stand here together and we will remember you all in our prayers throughout our holiday time, throughout this Christmas season. We will stand together for the rule of law, we will stand together for sanity. We are going to look to try to find a way to reach out, and perhaps, just perhaps there will be some key, some knowledge gained from this tragedy that we can better use to protect and maybe prevent future tragedies.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (AMERICAN ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor to address the energy situation as well and point something out that I don't believe has been very well illustrated here. 
   This chart that I have, the inside circle is all of the Btus of energy that are consumed in the United States annually, 72 quadrillion Btus. The outside circle is all of the different sources of energy. Excuse me, this is the production chart on the inside. The outside circle is the consumption chart. We are producing only 72 percent of the overall energy that we are consuming. We need to grow the entire size of the energy pie. But if you take out of it all of the things that the environmentalists don't want us to do, it leaves only a little bit of solar and wind and geothermal. That is only 0.74 percent of our energy production. 
   They want to grow it into 100 percent of our energy production. That cannot be done. We have to grow all sources, not the tiny little sliver, three-quarters of 1 percent that the environmentalists would let us do. Let's go for all of it, as the gentleman from Illinois said. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (EMPLOYEE FREE CHOICE ACT -- (House of Representatives - March 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas for yielding. 
   Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to this modified closed rule today. Although several worthy amendments were offered in the Rules Committee last evening, and I am grateful I will have the privilege to offer one here on this floor later on today, but only three were made in order, and three of those that were not made in order deserve special mention, I believe, here in this rules debate that we are having. 
   The first would be Representative Musgrave's amendment to repeal those provisions that permit employers to require employees to join or pay dues or fees to a union as a condition of employment, that being the right to work amendment. I have long supported that language, going clear back into the seventies as an employer and a small business owner. 
   Secondly, Representative Emerson and I both submitted separate amendments that would exempt businesses employing 50 individuals or less from the legislation. 
   Third, Representative Chabot attempted to exempt small businesses by using the Small Business Administration definition. 
   I have spent my life in small business. I started one in 1975. I met payroll for over 28 years. That is over 1,400 consecutive weeks. I faced the regulations day by day by day, and one of the reasons I stepped into public life was to try to reduce the regulations that are so oppressive to small business. 
   One of the things that you will realize when you are a small business owner and entrepreneur is that you have to be an expert in all things. You can't have a whole floor of lawyers that are there to sort out all the regulations, and you surely cannot have union members that are in there that are there to organize your employees in a fashion that is unfair. 
   If you are a small business, and say you have 12 or 15 employees, and I actually saw this happen on a job where there were 18 heavy equipment operators back in the early '70s asked to vote on whether we would go union or not, and I know exactly how every single member of that crew voted today. I can name them. I can tell you how they voted. You know that in that kind of an environment. 
   We are here without a secret ballot. That is what is taken away from this. I hopefully will be able to offer a motion to recommit based upon that. But that is the Charlie Norwood language that needs to be considered here. There has got to be a secret ballot to protect small employers' employees, especially because the intimidation effect is far greater in a small company than it is in a large company. If I can remember over a period of 34 years how they voted on that vote back on that job in the interstate in Iowa City, then you will know every week how your colleagues are going to vote. 
   We need to respect the initiative of Charlie Norwood, our good friend. We need to protect small business. We need to exempt small businesses from this. We are not going to get that real debate on exempting small businesses here, Madam Speaker, and that is unfortunate. 
   I appreciate the fact that this process has been opened up some, but I do think if there is an idea that is good enough that you can present it and say this should be etched in stone for all of America, which this overall bill does, this card check bill, then we ought to at least have the courage of our convictions and debate those convictions here on the floor of the House of Representatives here in the United States Congress. A rule that doesn't allow that then is a rule that tells me the courage of your convictions really aren't there. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (EMPLOYEE FREE CHOICE ACT -- (House of Representatives - March 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Chair, my amendment is an amendment that is adapted from a piece of legislation that has actually passed this Congress in the past and is called the anti-salting legislation. And a salt is when a union often has an employee on their payroll, sends them to accept employment at a non-union operation, where their purpose there is to organize in favor of the union. It is really kind of a spy technique to define it. 
   My amendment is actually pretty plain and pretty simple. And the operative language in it is that: Says nothing shall require an employer to hire an employee if that employee is in furtherance of some other employment or agency status. 
   That is the standard that is in the legislation. And I would point out that this puts the employer in a very, very difficult spot. They will often be able to identify the salts that get lined up, and some of the practices that take place will be there will be companies that will have expansion opportunities, and perhaps they want to hire 100 employees and they have got the demand to do that, but they are afraid that they will be targeted by what I will consider to be labor organization practices that are designed to take grievances before the NLRB for the purposes of organizing within that company, and if they can't get organized within the company, then they are willing to take the company down, as exemplified by CR Electric's $80,000 costs, Construction Electric forced out of business, $32,000 in costs. 
   Titus Electrical Contracting spent over one-half million dollars defending themselves against baseless charges. These things happen. And when an applicant comes forward before a merit shop employer and that applicant is clearly a salt from the union, then it puts the employer between the devil and the deep blue sea. He has two choices: He can either decide not to hire the employee, in which case there will be trumped-up charges bought to the NLRB which will cost them money; or, he can decide to take his medicine and do the hire, in which case if he does the hire, he knows that he has got an organizer there. 
   Now, I support labor organizations' ability to do that. They have a right to collectively bargain. And that should be in place in this country and it is, and I am philosophically in support of it as well. But we can't be allowing these kind of tactics. 
   This amendment is a simple piece of legislation. 
   Madam Chair, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (EMPLOYEE FREE CHOICE ACT -- (House of Representatives - March 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Chair, first in response to the gentleman from New Jersey, the language that is operative here that addresses the union membership issue that you raise says, ``in furtherance of such person's other employment or agency status,'' so they could hold two union jobs as long as the purpose of the one was not to undermine the organizations of the other. 
   I have lived with union salting. I have seen it happening. I have seen scraper operators with a load of dirt drive into the mud hole, and then when we pushed him, went to push him out, they would put it into neutral and step on the fuel and act like they were trying, but they weren't. They were slowing down the operation before a union vote. I lived through this. 
   I understand what union salting is. I support the organization of a union's ability, but I do not support the devil's choice that is given to the employer that takes down small businesses, breaks companies. 
   We can't have that kind of thing in this country. The devil's choice, the spot between the devil and the deep blue sea, is where they find themselves. This lets an employer make a choice at the hiring as to whether that employee represents themselves for the job for the employment. Of course, they should have the job if they are otherwise qualified. 
   This salting bill passed this House of Representatives in March of 1998 with a significant margin. We will have a vote up today on that. I appreciate that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RANDOM THOUGHTS ON THE PASSING SCENE -- (House of Representatives - January 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, Mr. McHenry's input into this dialogue that we have here is essential. I look forward to the pugnacious Mr. McHenry's deliveries on this floor and in committee and before the media over the next 2 years of the new 110th Congress. 
   As always, Mr. Speaker, it is a profound honor and privilege to address you on the floor in the United States House of Representatives, the people's House. As I bring up this subject matter that is here before us, I have a series of things, random thoughts on the passing scene, focused on current events will be my message here today. 
   There are mistakes that are made and there are things said and done in political campaigns that don't always reflect the wishes or the policy, but things are said sometimes to win elections and then you have to follow through on that. 
   We have had some standards to look back on. The first 100 days of the presidency, many Presidents have made their pledge that in the first 100 days they are going to move pieces of policy, and they have endeavored to keep those pledges. 
   When the Republicans took over the majority in 1994, they also made a pledge in the first 100 days that they would bring, at least bring to a vote a series of reform changes called ``Contract With America.'' Looking back on that, and it depends on your analysis and definition, but something like two-thirds of that agenda was passed into law. I believe all of it was voted on in this Congress. But yet it was done under a regular order. It was done under an open process, and it was done by bringing the legislation of the Contract With America, which I am comparing now to this first 100 hours of the new majority's agenda, comparing those two initiatives that were brought up in the campaign and the pledges that were made. But they were brought through in regular order in the Contract With America in 1994. 
   Regular order meaning that the bills were introduced and they were brought to subcommittee where they had a full subcommittee hearing and there was open debate and there was an opportunity for Democrats and Republicans to offer their amendments into the subcommittee on each of those pieces of legislation. As it came out of subcommittee, it went to full committee where there was an opportunity for the full committee members to weigh in. As we know, the committees are where we have established and developed expertise. If you look at the chairs and also the seasoned veterans on committees, both Republicans and Democrats, and I look at the Judiciary Committee where there is a tremendous amount of seniority, and I have the honor to serve on the House Judiciary Committee, there is a replete, not necessarily complete but a very replete body of knowledge within the minds of the members of the committee and the staff. And of course the history and the resources that are there. 
   That is why we put legislation through the subcommittee and committee processes so we can weigh in with our judgment and bring our individual expertise to bear, and we have an opportunity to hear from our constituents because they will read the language and they will parse the words and let us know where the flaws are. 
   Mr. Speaker, my first step into public life was going from the private sector, being a construction company founder, owner and manager into the legislative arena as an Iowa senator. And the first thing I learned was the law of unintended consequences. 
   In other words, you can have a good idea and it sounds perfect to you from your limited perspective. You can put that down into the form of a law, and if I were king for a day as a younger man, I might have offered some of those ideas I had earlier in my political career as an edict that I believed should have been the law of the land and lay that out there and give a bob of my scepter and declare that to be law. But my mistakes would have been as a younger, less experienced man, and sometimes still today those mistakes, I didn't understand the law of unintended consequences. I didn't understand that my ideas needed to be vetted across the spectrum of the other people that I served in the State legislature with, and I carry that experience with me into this Congress. I didn't understanding that I needed to float those ideas out to the various constituency groups that are there to be voices of individuals, and I didn't understand that I needed to float those out to individuals and get those ideas out in the press and publish my bills so that people that are interested can look in and weigh in and make phone calls, send e-mails and write letters, come and visit and lobby as individuals or join up with their various constituency groups that are out there to be able to analyze and be a louder voice as members of a group so that all of the expertise that America has to offer can come to bear on the judgments and decisions that we make here in this Congress. 
   But that whole process that I have described, the process utilized in 1994 with the Contract With America, that entire open, bipartisan process has been usurped by this rules package that has been brought here to the floor of this Congress. We learned essentially a new term. I don't know if anybody in this Congress understood it at the time. Some did, I imagine, because they came up with the effort on the rules. 
   I came down here to put up my first vote on a motion to commit. Now I have voted many times on motions to recommit.  
   Mr. Speaker, if I may describe that. A motion to recommit is a motion that says if you bring a bill to the floor and then it gets debated here on the floor, the motion to recommit says we want to recommit it back to committee and sometimes recommit it with instructions back to committee because there are Members here in the full House that didn't have an opportunity to weigh in on that bill as it came through committee. They didn't sit on the appropriate committee, for example. So they had a viewpoint that needed to be considered. And if a motion 
   to recommit is successful here on the floor, that says a majority of the Members of the full House of Representatives have concluded that there are other ideas that needed to be considered, send it back to committee with instructions so those other ideas can be considered. That is a motion to recommit. 
   But we voted on a motion to commit, not recommit, a motion to commit. A motion to commit is send it to committee. And the reason it is a motion to commit rather than a motion to recommit is this legislation has not gone through committee. It has not gone through the subcommittee process or the committee process. It simply then is legislation that was held very tight. I don't know if it was in a locked briefcase, but it was something that the public and press didn't have access to. Members of Congress didn't have access to it. In fact, I believe many of the lower ranking Members of the majority party didn't have access to this legislation. It was secret legislation that was thrust upon us and the only opportunity that we have is a nondebatable motion to commit to committee for the first time because it didn't go through the committee process. 
   I submit, Mr. Speaker, that is inconsistent with the pledge that was made throughout the election process and throughout the campaign process. 
   There are a number of quotes that were identified, and I have some of them. I don't have all of them. One of them by now-Speaker Pelosi was this, and this was on CNN on November 9, so 2 days after the election. That would have been Thursday. She said, ``Democrats are ready to lead, prepared to govern.'' I don't quibble with that part of the statement. But the completion of the sentence is, ``ready to lead, prepared to govern, and absolutely willing to work in a bipartisan way.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, there is no definition of bipartisanship that I can apply to this process unless many of the Members of the majority party were as shut out of this process as the entire minority party was. I suspect that is the case. I don't want to parse the language in there, I just want to say that the spirit and intent of that statement, ``willing to work in a bipartisan way'' has been violated here, but maybe not the technical definition of that. We can expect these things because we have a house full of lawyers that are good with language and they will find a way to convolute this language to be able to defend themselves. 
   So I point out this process. Motion to commit, nondebatable motion. All you can do is plead for a recorded vote, and that is the only opportunity to voice objection, but there is not an opportunity to improve the legislation. And that is really what we need to do, always, all of us in a bipartisan way, at least provide an opportunity for amendments in the process. That means in the subcommittee process and in the full committee process, and then here on the floor of the House of Representatives in open debate so the public can evaluate this process, not a secret or closed process, but an open process to the public. We owe you that, America. We owe you an open and clean process and we owe you an open dialogue and an open debate. 
   If we don't do that, you will be drawing conclusions such as they don't believe in what they are doing enough to be able to have an open debate. What kind of work is being done here that we are not able to have it withstand the scrutiny and the criticism that might come from the public if it were an open process. 
   So I will submit, Mr. Speaker, that promises get made during campaigns. There were many promises made during the last campaign that will not be kept by the new majority party. But the promise that seems to be the one that is sacrosanct is the promise that in the first 100 hours we will do these things. In order to accomplish these promises of achievement within the first 100 hours, which is comparable to the first 100 days in presidential promises or the promise of the 1994 new majority, in order to achieve those goals and keep those promises, the promise we will do it within the first 100 hours, the only way to meet that was to take this bipartisanship and set it aside and suspend it at least temporarily, if not permanently, for the 110th Congress, and to set aside the subcommittee process and set aside the committee process. 
   We have one more avenue here that there can be an open forum, and that is the rules process. At least a member can bring an amendment to the Rules Committee, explain their amendment in open forum and ask for a vote on their amendment as to whether that amendment can be allowed to be considered here on the floor of the House of Representatives. 
   I was astonished there were this many amendments when I came here as a freshman a couple of Congresses ago. I was astonished that there were so many amendments that were turned down, that did not see the light of day. But there was an opportunity to present them to the Rules Committee, and I did that many times and I got turned down many times as a member of the majority party. But we don't even have a rules process that is open enough that you can present your amendments to the Rules Committee. 
   In fact, I believe the Rules Committee, as an example already, will not be meeting, it will simply be a decision that is made by the leadership of the majority party, and the recorded votes of the Rules Committee will be secret. That is part of this package, as I understand it, too, Mr. Speaker. 
   So of all of the promises that will be broken, the one that should be broken is the one that is sacrosanct, the promise of accomplishment in the first 100 hours. If we could just look at that and say we understand your motive, but this is not conducive to bipartisanship or open process; in fact, it is not conducive to good legislation because the good ideas of Democrats and Republicans are shut out of this process. 
   I will just ask this of now-Speaker Pelosi: Why don't you just break one promise instead of a series that will ultimately be broken, and break that promise about 100 hours so that you can keep your promise about bipartisanship, and keep your promises about an open process and ethical process. That is far more important to the American people than a promise to accomplish certain legislative endeavors within the first 100 hours. 
   This 100 hours is meaningless to the American people. All of this has to go over to the Senate. The Senate has to be willing to take it up. The Senate has to be able to vote cloture on some of this, and I think it will be filibustered, and it has to get to the President for signature. Timing is not as essential, it is the policy that is important. It is important to have an open process, it is important that we weigh in and that amendments be allowed to be offered and that they be considered and that they be voted on so the American people can have confidence in this process.     
   And sometimes, sometimes, this body, this great deliberative body of the people's House, will reach the right decisions. In fact, I believe often we will. When we do so with public debate and an open process, we reach the right decision for the right policy for America and we also reach it by using the right reasons, the reasons of open dialogue that allow people's positions and their knowledge to come to that debate. 
   Sometimes we will make the wrong decision, and when we do that, if we have open dialogue and open debate, then at least it is arguable that we have arrived at the wrong decision, but at least we followed the right process, and we can't fault the reasoning on how we get there. 
   I would compare Gerald R. Ford, and may he rest in peace, Gerald R. Ford, whom we said good-bye to within this past week, the man who came to the Presidency after having served 25 years here, Mr. Speaker, in the House of Representatives, a man who was almost without guile as President. A President who made decisions at a time when we  needed someone who had absolute integrity. The person who had confidence, the confidence and the endorsement of Democrats and Republicans at the time, Mr. Speaker. And with Gerald R. Ford as President, when he made a decision, when I agreed with him and he laid out his reasoning and his rationale, when he made the right decision, he made it for the right reason. 
   He thoughtfully deliberated on the components of the information, the interactivity of them and what the result would be and what the constitutional foundation was on that decision. And he made his decision, and he told us why. And that established confidence in the integrity and the judgment, in the intellect, and the character and in the faith of Gerald R. Ford. 
   When he made the wrong decision, and I will just say when I disagreed with him would be my definition of the wrong decision, he still laid out his argument. And when he laid out his argument, I could not fault him for using the wrong criteria. It was well thought out. He made his arguments well. When we disagreed, I would have a different argument. 
   But those kinds of debates that he had within himself, he earned that respect of us for President Ford. That kind of deliberation, that kind of integrity so far in the 110th Congress is nonexistent because there hasn't been an opportunity to have that debate on any of this that has come to this at this point and the rules deny there be that kind of debate and deliberation in the future. 
   So I talked about the new motion, still it was in the rules, but a motion to commit. New to use. You will hear a discussion, Mr. Speaker, about PAYGO. PAYGO means pay as you go. It means something different to Democrats than it does to Republicans. And I will say that when Republicans talk about PAYGO, we mean we want to pay as we go, as do Democrats, but we believe we should constrain spending and slow the growth in government and we should find ways for reconciliation and maybe do a rescissions package so that we can rachet this spending down to keep it within the revenue stream. 
   We believe that the Bush tax cuts have absolutely flat out been proven to stimulate this economy. Revenue is up. Revenue has increased significantly since the Bush tax cuts were put in place. That is why our deficit has been reduced. It is because revenue has gone beyond our expectations. But the PAYGO argument for me is I want to slow this growth in spending so that we can get the size of our Federal Government back in line with the size of our revenue stream. 
   For example, last year there were mistakes made by the majority party in the last couple, three Congresses. I believe that there was too much money that was spent, Mr. Speaker, and I think that we should have shut that down earlier. I was surprised when I came to this Congress as a freshman in January of 2003 that there wasn't a balanced budget that I could simply endorse, jump on, and go to work with. It was a condition where we were dealing with the reality of the politics rather than the necessity of balancing the budget. 
   And in order to produce a balanced budget, I would have had to create my own with my new staff, who didn't really have that time and understanding of this overall 2.7 or $2.8 trillion national budget. But things crept away from a balanced budget, and we know why. We know there was the bursting of the dot-com bubble that took place and it was necessary, and I could go into that perhaps on another date, Mr. Speaker. 
   And we also know that we faced an attack on September 11 that shut down our financial industry and that the effort was to turn our United States economy into a tailspin. It needed to be brought out of that nosedive, and the tax cuts that we passed brought it back up out of that nosedive. We knew that we had to engage in a global war on terror and it was going to cost hundreds of billions of dollars to be able to defend Americans that had been killed in greater numbers on our soil than ever at any time in history, and we set about to do that. 
   So three big things sent us into a deficit: the bursting of the dot-com bubble, the attack on September 11, and the necessity to fund the effort in a global war on terror. Those three things. And as the stimulants took place on the tax cuts, it has taken a little while to get them to take hold, but there is no argument that this economy is the strongest and most powerful economy that I have experienced in my lifetime, and it is measurable by a lot of different ways. Anything that goes up and is good for the economy is up. Anything that goes down that is good for the economy is down, and the opposite is also true. 
   This has been a powerfully strong economy with growth in something like 18 of 19 previous quarters, and all of that growth has been up around the 3 percent level. So this economy has been powerful, and this growth has been really a great position to be in to be able to say let us let the economy grow us out of this. Let us slow this growth of balance. Let us balance this budget. 
   But let us not balance it, Mr. Speaker, with tax increases. That is what PAYGO means to Democrats. The tax cuts have provided the growth in our revenue stream. Tax increases will diminish the growth in our revenue stream. But their idea of pay-as-you-go is to increase taxes and increase spending, as we heard Mr. McHenry say, to the tune of $800 million in this package. That $800 million won't be paid for by cuts in other line items in any significant way. That, in their mind, is paid for by tax increases. 
   As has been stipulated by the new incoming chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Rangel of New York, none of the Bush tax cuts he would say he would support or endorse. And as you listened to him respond across the media airwaves, it always came back to the only way that you could characterize his position was we are going to increase taxes. 
   When you increase taxes, you slow this economy. Ronald Reagan once said what you tax you get less of. What you tax you get less of, and what you subsidize you get more of. But I want to talk about the what-you-tax-you-get-less-of component of that, a very wise statement of President Reagan's, and that is in our infinite lack of wisdom here in the United States of America, Mr. Speaker, we tax all productivity in America. 
   In fact, the Federal Government has the first lien on all productivity in America. And you can measure that by personal income tax, corporate income tax, capital gains, taxes on interest income, taxes on dividend income, taxes on your pension, taxes on your Social Security. I am forgetting some of those taxes. How about your savings and investment? Any way you can describe productivity, the Federal Government is there to tax it; so we get less productivity because we tax our productivity in America, and Democrats are poised to increase the taxes on our productivity. What you tax you get less of. 
   If you are paying a 10 percent income tax and you are making $50,000 a year and they want to raise that tax up to let's just say 50 percent, why in the world would you try to increase your revenue stream by 50 percent if your taxes are going to go up by the average of 50 percent and 10 percent, say, roughly 30 percent on average? That will not happen in the minds of the American people. That is why organized economies never work. That is why Marxism has failed. That is why socialized economies, managed economies, have always failed. Free enterprise has been the thing that has provided incentives so that people could produce all they could produce and they had an incentive to be able to keep the max amount possible and still be able to provide the services that are necessary to hold our sovereign state together. 
   Democrats want to raise taxes to balance the budget. Republicans want to cut spending to balance the budget. 
   So last year I put together the formula that would get us to a balanced budget. And if we just wanted to do it all at once, we need to be looking at what that balanced budget was to do that all at once. And we say, first of all, there is nondiscretionary spending. This is the kind of spending that is already in the formula, that is, what it is going to cost for Social Security, what it is going to cost for Medicaid, what it is going to cost for Medicare. That is most of them, those formulas that are automatic transfer payments that are  already set up in the equation. That is nondiscretionary spending. Many people think you can't affect that. That we shouldn't change it, maybe adjust the rules in such a way that there would be fewer recipients or fewer dollars of Medicaid, for example. 
   That needs to be addressed, and we have tried to address entitlement spending. That is that nondiscretionary spending and the other phrase for it: you are entitled to Social Security. You are entitled to Medicare. You are entitled to Medicaid. But the rules of those entitlements are in the code today, and those rules are something that can be changed and adjusted. And I am not here to talk about how to do that specifically, although I do have some ideas on how to approach that, but we need to address entitlement spending. 
   That was the President's effort when he came out right after his second inaugural address and traveled the countryside and spoke about reforming Social Security. That operation will collapse at some point unless we have the political courage to touch that third rail and fix it. That is an entitlement. 
   Another one is Medicare. Being from the State that is last in the Nation in Medicare receipts on a per capita basis, there is much that must be done to help our people out who are on the short end of that stick. But entitlement spending is a component of this. They want to increase taxes rather than adjust entitlement spending. And the more they can grow entitlement spending, the more they can take us into socialism. And I don't want to have a managed economy. I want to have a free enterprise market economy. That is what I came here to promote and defend. 
   PAYGO for Democrats is raise taxes; PAYGO for Republicans is cut spending. And last year for the 2007 fiscal year, which much of that is still ahead of us, we could have left entitlements in place. We could have left defense spending in place at the appropriated levels that we have now and done nondefense discretionary spending. That is the rest of the budget that I haven't mentioned. 
   Mr. Speaker, nondefense discretionary spending could have been appropriated at the term of 95 percent of what it was for the 2006 fiscal year and we would have had a balanced budget. 
   Some of the Democrats have pledged to support a balanced budget that does not include increasing taxes, that does include reduction of spending in nondefense discretionary, that discretionary spending that doesn't put our Nation at risk. Ninety-five percent of the 2006 fiscal year, that doesn't mean an increase. That actually means a decrease of 5 percent in funding. 
   Well, if I have a family budget and all of a sudden I look around and I think I am going into debt here and I guess I am not going to be in a position to pass that debt along to my children, and we should not be, then we need to be willing to live within our means. And whatever your means are, most of us, if we had to look back and think we can have a balanced family budget if we would just reduce our overall spending down to 95 percent of what it was last year, we would willingly make that adjustment, recognizing that we haven't been as responsible as we should have been, and made the budget adjustment. 
   That is the kind of PAYGO we need to do in this Congress. We need a balanced budget here, yes, Mr. Speaker, but not PAYGO with tax increases. Pay as you go without tax increases. That is the Steve King position, and I believe that will be a core position on the part of many of the Republicans.     
   Another way that we can adjust, address spending, is the earmark reform. I have been in strong support of earmark reform. I have stepped in and voted for 16 of the 17 that Congressman Flake brought to the floor of this Congress in the 109th Congress, but I don't think that really does the job. They are pieces that I agree with. 
   But I want to do some real reform here, Mr. Speaker, and I am prepared to introduce a bill. It is a bill that I introduced last year. 
   The problem is this, we talk about giving the President a line item veto, so that when there is spending that comes out, and maybe you want to talk about the Bridge to Nowhere, that is one of those issues that has been raised up as a earmark. Well, if the Bridge to Nowhere comes up, or the Cowgirl Hall of Fame comes up or some of these other earmarks that have been rather notorious in the media, we would ask the President, under a presidential line item veto to veto that, take it out of the budget, save that $273 million or whatever the number might be for any of those items, or $1 million line item veto to maybe study the nocturnal habits of the salamander, or whatever it might be. You know some of those, Mr. Speaker, they have been out in the news. 
   These are earmarks that get slipped in, generally at the committee level, as the bill is being drafted. It comes out here. No Member of Congress has an opportunity to evaluate those earmarks, nor an opportunity to bring an amendment that could strike those earmarks from the bill. They arrive in a compromised fashion often as a conference committee report that comes back in the negotiations between the House and the Senate. 
   It comes to the floor. We have got to vote on it to move to keep the government operating, and what happens is, there are line items in there that have been earmarked by people who are inside that conference committee, and these Members of Congress here, Democrats and Republicans, are held accountable for voting ``yes'' or ``no'' on pork projects that they didn't know was in the bill. 
   I would illustrate it this way, when I first came to this Congress, there was a 3,600 page omnibus spending bill. I was only here about 3 days, or maybe even two, and that bill came to the floor of this Congress, and 20 minutes after it was made available to my staff to evaluate, the final vote went up here on the floor of the House of Representatives. 
   That process meant that I was accountable for all of those earmarks that were in that omnibus spending bill, those 3,600 pages. It is one thing to try to evaluate a bill and read what's in it, it is not possible within the time we had, but it is at least possible to evaluate something that is in the bill. 
   Try and find, Mr. Speaker, something that is not in the bill. Try and look through 3,600 pages to determine that there are omissions as well as the issues, the earmarks that are in the bill. 
   This process does need to be more open, so I have drafted the CUT Act, and it is cut unnecessary tab, and the tab references, if you have a tab in an eating or drinking establishment, we want to cut this tab. 
   I believe this, that Members of Congress need to have a legitimate opportunity to have their own line item veto. I think every Member of this Congress should be able to offer an amendment to a bill that strikes out the line items of their choice under an open rule. 
   So the CUT Act does this, Mr. Speaker, it allows once a quarter, four times a year, for a bill to come to the floor under an open rule, and it may just be a shell bill, it may not have a single line item strike in it, but it allows under an open rule any and every Member to bring forth their list of objectionable spending, objectionable earmarks, and have them offer those earmark strikes. 
   All it would do is be a rescissions bill that reduces spending, and the reduction in that spending goes to address the deficit. When the deficit is addressed, then it goes back into the general fund, which ultimately reduces our national debt, gives every Member of this Congress an opportunity to have a line item veto of their own offered to all Members of Congress. 
   So let us say there is a crazy appropriation out here that got slipped into a bill. It will surely happen, Mr. Speaker, it will happen hundreds and perhaps thousands of times. Let us just say that the blogosphere out there is lit up, that people go to their Web pages, and they scrutinize the work that we do. We need to give them a lot of access to do that because they are the next watch dogs on this Congress. 
   It used to be that the watch dogs sat in this gallery, and many do, and I am glad they are here, but then as those watch dogs were also up here in the press corps, and then the press wrote, and it got into the newspapers, and sometimes, weeks later, had got out into the press in the corners of the United States of America 
   Well, now we are real-time. We are real-time, and it has been press real-time for a long time, but it is even better now because we have an Internet, we have a blogosphere. Let us just say that there is a completely objectionable earmark that has been slipped in by a committee chairman, or maybe an agreement with a ranking member, that comes out of a conference committee, and it comes down to the floor of this Congress. 
   Let us just pick the nocturnal habits of salamanders for $10 million, to have a subject here that we can talk about and understand. Well, we don't really need to understand the nocturnal habits of salamanders, at least at that kind of experience to the taxpayers. But whatever the motivation was that put it in there, we will not see it. We will not have time to read the bill. But that bill then, once it passes a conference report, goes to the President, and he will sign that bill, because there are many things in there that we must have to keep the government operating, and now we have got $10 million wasted on the nocturnal habits of salamanders. 
   There is nothing Congress can do about it, we have done it. We have been complicit, our rules have been complicit in allowing these things to happen, not just with this earmark, Mr. Speaker, but hundreds and even thousands of them. My CUT Act allows this, it allows a Member to stand up on the first day of the quarter, hopefully it will be the leader and the leaders, and they will say, I have a bill at the desk made in order under the rule, and this bill is the CUT Act bill, then that allows the shell bill to come up like an appropriations bill, only this is a deappropriations bill, a rescissions bill, that every amendment that strikes spending by line item is in order, and the Members can flock over here to the Capitol, and being responsive to their constituents, being responsive to their constituency groups, being responsive to the bloggers out there, that have gone down through this legislation, have read every single line item, have read the details and the nuances of it, read every details and the nuances of it; and then, these Members of Congress can come here, offer their amendments to strike the $10 million that would be spent for the nocturnal habits of salamanders, and you can add line after item after line item, strike after strike to that. 
   When that happens, we will have an open process, a process that will allow for the people of the United States of America to weigh in on our appropriations that we are doing here. 
   That, Mr. Speaker, is a description of how the CUT Act works. A lot of us would like to see the President with a legitimate and effective line item veto. But I believe this Congress deserves a legitimate and an effective line item veto. It is why I put a lot of research into this, I have examined it, I have floated it out to the various constituency groups. I have asked them for their input because I don't want to have unintended consequences. I want to be able to provide a process here that is good for the future of America, an open process, a process that gives everybody in this Congress a line item veto, at least to offer the amendment. 
   When that bill passes off this floor, and I don't envision just eliminating $10 million on the nocturnal habits of salamanders, I envision there to be 25 or 50 or 100 or 300 or more line items that are accumulated into that bill that are struck. Because individually, they will not be able to withstand the scrutiny of the majority of the Members of Congress, because you, the people of America, and the American people, I should say, actually, Mr. Speaker, will insist that we be fiscally responsible and that we not waste money. 
   So let us just say that there are now 100 line items strikes, each one of them representing an amendment to the CUT Act bill that is in order, and that $10 million to the nocturnal habits of salamanders is the first one, and that saves the taxpayers $10 million. We go right down the list of those things that you know about, Mr. Speaker, those things that are in the media, strike after strike after strike, and we have now accumulated 100 different strikes, line item vetoes, and out of those 100, there is in there, perhaps, let us pick a round number, $1 billion. Now this bill, then, passes off this House of Representatives, and it goes over to the Senate, where we ask them to take it up. 
   We cannot write their rules, Mr. Speaker, but we can ask them to take up a bill that we pass here, a rescissions package that has the full support of the American people that cuts $1 billion out of our spending that reduces our deficit and when, successfully, we are at the balanced budget level, pays down the national debt. 
   That is the CUT Act, Mr. Speaker. That is a line item veto for Members of Congress. That is Congressional accountability. That is the kinds of things that we need to have an opportunity to debate here on the floor of this Congress when we kick off this 110th. That is the kind of amendment that has been shut out of this process, not just out of the process of subcommittee and committee, but shut out of even being presented at the Rules Committee so that there can be access to the media for the debate, the deliberation, and so that there will be people that can be held accountable for their vote when they decide they don't want this kind of an open process. 
   I submit that there is no desire for this open process on the part of the majority. I believe that I need to continue to beat this drum, and I will. 
   To package the PAYGO argument up and move on to the next component of this, PAYGO, for Republicans is, control and constrain spending to achieve a balanced you budget, no new taxes, less spending, balanced budget, fiscally responsible, PAYGO for Democrats is buy what you need to, spend what you need to pass by your Members, raise taxes, so that you can say that you balanced the budget. 
   That will work until you kill the goose that lays the golden egg, what you tax you will get less of. We will get less tax gas production in America as taxes increase. That means then that there will be less revenue coming in, coming off of the production in America, and eventually this economy will be constrained 
   It will shrink, and we will have, we will finally kill the goose that lays the golden egg. We will have to come back around, reduce tax again, stimulate again, do what we did in the aftermath of September 11 to reduce tax, do it in the Reagan way, do it in the John F. Kennedy way, the Reagan way, the George W. Bush way, those things, those tax reductions have always increased and stimulated our economy. That doesn't seem to be something that is within the scope of understanding on the other side, because there is a different agenda. It is a socialization agenda. 
   So, that is the description of PAYGO, Mr. Speaker. Now, the next component that I want to talk about within this rules package is the idea of ethics reform. Ethics reform, I agree, we needed to reform some ethics. We didn't do enough in the 109th Congress to reform ethics. We did things that were, I thought, window dressing. 
   My view on ethics is that, I mentioned the bloggers a little bit earlier. We need to give the American people sunlight. They have got to have sunlight on this process. That means that we should not have rules that are written and reports that are written in such a way that the information is difficult to access, or difficult to understand, or impossible to legitimately analyze and draw real black and white conclusions. 
   But in truth, that is the system that we have today, and it is the system that has been improved some over the years, but it has got a ways to go. The system that I would submit is under a package that I have offered called the Sunlight bill. That means that I want a light on the things that we do. 
   I think that we live in a fishbowl anyway, all 435 of us, we are scrutinized by the press whenever we show up in public, we are recognized, and that is great, it is flattering. It is a tremendous honor to be able to represent the people here in the United States House of Representatives. The trade-off for that is you don't get a lot of privacy. The requirement for that is that you report your finances, for example, and that we report our campaign finances, as well as our personal finances, and we report our financial dealings. That includes real estate transactions, purchases. 
   But we have a system that is not open. We have a system that is not accessible. We have a system that is not really sortable, and it is vague enough  that you can't draw clear conclusions from that reporting system that we have. I have offered the Sunlight Act to fix all of that and to make it more, and I am going to say far more, accessible to the American people. 
   First and the easiest one to deal with is the Federal Election Commission reporting. Now, all of us have to go out and raise money in order to get elected to this Congress. Money is a necessity for the people to express their freedom of speech. If we don't raise the money, eventually someone will spend a lot of money. No matter what our level of integrity is, you cannot sustain a seat in the House of Representatives if you are not willing to go out and raise some money and be able to advertise on a political campaign. 
   It is unfortunate. I don't know that it was envisioned by our Founding Fathers, but it is necessary. Mr. Speaker, if we concede the point that money has to be raised by Members of Congress, and it does, then we also need to discuss, and I believe, concede the point that we should have full reporting of our campaign finances, and we do have a law that requires full reporting, and I don't want to imply that that doesn't exist, it is just that the reporting isn't necessarily in real-time.     
   It isn't necessarily in a format that is accessible. So if it is not accessible, easily accessible, then it is not as full as the reporting should be. The Sunlight Act asks this, that the Federal Election Commission reporting, our campaign finances, be reported in real-time. And it sets up some parameters on how much time you have if you receive some revenue from an individual or from a PAC, the timing of that is a little looser until you get down to the last 30 days of a campaign. In the last 30 days the Sunlight Act requires that you file those campaign contributions every 24 hours, every single day, the last 30 days, you file those campaign revenues. Somebody hands you a check, that gets deposited, but it gets reported the same business day. That is not too much to ask when you have that kind of flurry going on. We have to do a lot of things on a real-time basis, and that is one of them. 
   But that is only, but to report that, to report it to the FEC and have the FEC bring that report out in their own good time, in a time that it is not possible for the public to understand where the monies come from, and we agree, I believe, that utilization of funds to advance a candidacy or to advance a cause are political speech, but free speech. 
   So if funds are speech, and the reporting of those funds is an open process, it needs to be in a timely fashion. So say if there were, what if there happened to be an entity out there that was one who was rejected by Democrats and Republicans but put a lot of money in a campaign and that didn't show up until after the election, Madam Speaker. But the public, had they known that, might have voted for the candidate who didn't receive those funds. That is my argument as to why we need to have real-time reporting. 
   But I want to take this back to the blogosphere. We have people out there that have their blogs and they are watching the mainstream news media. They are interacting with other blogs. They have their information conduits that come from whatever their access points are. Maybe they happen to be in politics, or maybe they are just a pundit that is well wired and well connected. And they might see information that the rest of the country doesn't see. That is how news is gathered. So the bloggers are gathering the news and they are writing their opinions and sometimes they are taking information and then sorting it in a fashion that people can use it and they can understand it. 
   I submit that we should submit ourselves, Madam Speaker, to the scrutiny of the blogosphere; that we should have FEC reporting, campaign finance reporting in real-time in a searchable, sortable, downloadable format that will allow anyone out there in America that has access to a computer or to the Internet to go click on that information, if they want to know where STEVE KING'S revenue stream came from, download that into a database that you can sort. 
   If you want to sort it alphabetically, sort it alphabetically. If you want to sort it by dollars, biggest contribution down to smallest, do that. If you want to sort it by date, do that. If you want to sort it by name, do that. But we should put that information out to the public so that you can scrutinize, in the public, where our campaign funds come from, so that you can evaluate sometimes the positions that we take. Because if they can be indexed to the influence of money, you need to hold us accountable. We owe you our best judgment. 
   We don't owe the public a vote that is a bought vote. And the public needs to have an opportunity to identify if there is someone who is influenced too much by money, and it needs to happen in real-time. It needs to happen every single day 30 days prior to an election. That is part of the Sunlight Act, to shed light on our Federal Election Commission reporting, real-time, Internet accessible, downloadable, searchable, sortable database so that the American public has access. 
   Now, Madam Speaker, that would take care of the reporting on our FEC documents. Essential open process, put me in the fish bowl, make it real-time. I am already in the fish bowl. Let's be honest and open about it and we will get these adjustments made, and they will be made by the people out there in the country, and that is where it should be. 
   The next part of this that needs reform even more, Madam Speaker, is our personal financial reporting from an ethics perspective. And I will reiterate that when a Member of Congress files a financial disclosure form and files it under the ethics rules that are there, they sign that document and pledge that it is true and accurate and done so within the rules and the guidelines of ethics. And to violate that, to willfully violate that and falsely report is a felony. It is a felony. It is worse to report wrong data on your ethics than it is to come into the United States illegally. It is a felony to report inaccurate information willfully on our financial disclosure forms. 
   But we have ranges of financial reporting, ranges that, not all of them committed to memory, and I didn't come down here prepared to go through them component by component. But I can just give some examples off the top of my head, Madam Speaker. And it works kind of this way. If you have liabilities, I am speaking again in general terms, not to the specific numbers within their financial reporting. If you have liabilities, perhaps between zero and $100,000, you put a little X in that column on this little kind of little spread sheet but it is a paper spread sheet. So you put an X in there and say, well, I owe somewhere between zero and $100,000. Or maybe you say I have no liabilities. And if you have assets that might be within $250,000 and $750,000, you put a little X in that box. 
   Well, then if you want to analyze what somebody is worth, you might have $100,000 worth of debt and they might have no more than $250,000 worth of assets, but you can't determine if they have no liability or $100,000 worth of liability and you can't determine whether they have $250,000 worth of assets or $750,000 worth of assets. And so as people go up the line in their reporting, the difference, the dollars in disparity get greater and greater and greater to the extent that, Madam Speaker, we have a Member seated in this Congress who reported low six digits in net worth assets 5 years earlier, and then 5 years later, showed up with somewhere between $6.4 million and $25 million in net worth. How does a person make $6 million in assets or, excuse me, in net worth value over a period of 5 years on the salary of a Member of Congress? How could a person expand that from $6.4 million on up to $25 million. Those questions cannot be legitimately answered without the Department of Justice and search warrants and Ryder trucks and filing cabinets loaded up to take into the investigation and computers being picked up and brought in and a massive financial analysis to figure out what really was going on. Were there taxpayer dollars that were pouring into this? Was there a Member of Congress that was enriching himself at the expense of the taxpayers? That is why we have the reporting of our finances. 
   But the ranges that are in there don't allow for the public to see that early enough to be able to call that question, get it into the media and bring that  Member into bay so that it doesn't get completely out of hand. This one, from my viewpoint, looks like it is completely out of hand, and I think it is going to take more tha 
   months yet for Justice to be able to do complete scrutiny of this and find out what really happened. 
   But if that Member that I am referencing, and if every Member, and I am speaking about every Member in this Congress, were required to put down exactly the dollar amount of their liabilities and exactly the dollar amounts of their assets so that you could look at their net worth, and understand that there is an amount of appreciation that might come with real estate investment. There might be an amount of appreciation that comes with stock options and investments. That needs to be reported. That should be traceable and trackable, and we should be required to put down exact dollar amounts, not ranges. Not a range of $5 to $25 million. If I were in that range, it is a lot of difference between being worth $5 million and $25 million. Where did the money come from is the reason that we have to report our finances. 
   The American people, Madam Speaker, do not have access to that information. That allows unethical Members of Congress to hide the worth that they may have been gathering in a fashion that is less than ethical. I believe we need to have sunlight on all of the financial proceedings, not just our Federal Election Commission reporting, not just our campaign side, but on our personal side as we are required today, but not in a range, not in a range of $5 to $25 million, not in a range of zero to $100 now, or $250,000 to $750,000, but in a range that is to the nearest dollar. 
   Exact reporting, and, Madam Speaker, do so in real-time. Do so in a downloadable, searchable, sortable database format, so that the bloggers out there, or anyone who has access to the Internet, be it a public library or their laptop on the bus or whether it is their hard-wired computer that sits in their basement, can sit down and say, I think I have been watching somebody here that is my Member of Congress. I don't know how they are doing so well. I am hearing rumors out here. Let's see what's really happened and go look and see, if we are going to be an open process, let's be an open process. Let's put sunlight on everything that we do in this Congress, Madam Speaker. 
   Let's put real-time reporting, downloadable, searchable, sortable formats on our FEC reporting for our campaign funds. Let's do that same thing for our personal finances. Let's open this up to the American people. Let them scrutinize our finances and the movement of our finances so that if some Member can be in here in the year 2000 with a net worth of perhaps $100,000, and in the year 2005 have a net worth of $6.4 million, or more, the American public can ask the question, why. Why did that take that kind of jump? It is not something that can be analyzed or justified unless there are special conditions. Those conditions, those circumstances have not been addressed at this point. I believe we need sunlight on everything that we do, sunlight on our campaign stream, sunlight on our personal finances. 
   And while we are shedding light on what is going on here in the Chamber, Madam Speaker, it is a bit of a surprise to many of us who come into this Congress to walk down here on the floor of Congress and hear a debate going on and it doesn't seem to be fitting with the debate we were watching on C-SPAN on the television in our office in the 5-minute walk over here. Things have changed. And you can walk on the floor of this Congress and thinking you are coming to weigh in on the debate of H. Res. 5 and find out you are debating H.R. 3495. 
   Now, neither one of those bills has a name in my mind. But we have names for these bills too that help describe what it is we are debating. And we are sitting in this technological era, where I have just called for real-time access for financial reporting of the Members of Congress, but the people that are sitting in the gallery here in this House of Representatives, Madam Speaker, unless they have got some kind of ear piece in them or some kind of a BlackBerry that they are allowed to have and I don't know that they are, that can tell them what is going on here on the floor of Congress they will not know when they walk in this Chamber what this debate is all about. 
   They will not know the bill that is before us. They will not know the amendment we are discussing. They will not know why some of the rhetoric doesn't match the language of the bill and the intent of the subject we are talking about. They can't know, Madam Speaker, because there isn't a single sign around this Chamber that tells the people that come into the gallery to witness the people's House what it is we are actually talking about. And if a Member of Congress walks in and they have been 1 minute or 5 minutes or 10 minutes out of the loop in their walk from their office and their watching their C-SPAN camera to come over here, the bill may have changed or a bill may have been temporarily deferred. It might be a different one that is taken up. And in that transfer of that subject matter, they can't know unless they walk over here and interrupt the person or the staff and ask what are we discussing, what are we debating. What is happening. I thought I came over here to talk on H.R. 6, and instead I am over here on H.R. 3094. 
   The reason that we don't know that is because we don't use the simplest of technology, a technology that at least when we vote puts the number of the bill up here on either end of the Chamber, illuminates it on the wooden panels so that you can see the vote that comes up. There is no technological reason, there is no procedural reason why we can't just ask for the sunlight bill on finances, why we can't just shine the light up on the wall, a subject matter that is being debated, the number of the bill that is being debated and the name and perhaps the number of the amendment that is also under discussion at the moment. That would allow anyone who comes in off the street to witness the debate and deliberation of the people's House to immediately sit down and understand what the debate is all about and understand what the amendment is and who has got the amendment up, and they will figure out then instantly who is the proponent, who is the opponent, and the process becomes more open. 
   The simplest thing that should be nonpartisan, this very simple idea is not just my idea but an idea that is supported and endorsed by many. I would ask if we could submit this idea to the freshmen that have come in. Those who have come out of State legislatures understand that the technology is there and has been there for years in State legislatures. When you walk into the chamber of a State House or a State Senate almost anywhere in the country, the subject of the bill is illuminated on the wall, the bill number is illuminated on the wall, the name of the person offering the amendment and the number of the amendment is offered on the wall with a short description of the bill, the amendment, so that the public can easily see what is going on, so that the members who are elected can walk in the room and instantaneously understand the process that they have walked into and be able to pick up immediately and engage in the process.     
   That is part of the light that needs to be shined on this process, Madam Speaker. And I raise this issue up with this particular discussion because it happens to be something that is almost without cost. It should be absolutely bipartisan. In fact, it should be nonpartisan in its nature. Everyone who serves here should be interested in being able to have easy access to the process and the procedure we happen to be under. And it is something that allows the people in the gallery to understand what is happening. 
   Right now, it could have ``Special Order by King'' on there. They could have a little clock on there to tell me how much time I have left before the gavel drops and my time has run and expired. 
   But at this point I would ask the Speaker how much time I have remaining. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RULES OF THE HOUSE -- (House of Representatives - January 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman for yielding. I do have to speak up for Iowa, although I wish Iowa was playing in the national championships coming up. 
   Mr. Speaker, not long ago, Members and leaders of the current majority party of the House spent countless hours attempting to draw the attention of the American people to what they defined as a culture of corruption here in Congress. Hoping to use this, they wanted to turn this phrase, usher in a new Democratic majority. That was their wish on election night that Members of the new majority stood in this Chamber prior to that, and on numerous soap boxes across the country and promised that if the American people gave them the chance to run things here on Capitol Hill, they would do things differently. 
   Mr. Speaker, I agree that things should be done differently here in this body. Last year in the 109th Congress, I introduced H.R. 4967, the Sunlight Act, and that was of 2006. This bill would have, on a number of things, required that bills, conference reports, joint resolutions and amendments be available to the public on the Internet in a searchable format before a bill could be voted on. 
   It also would have required and will require, if passed, privately funded travel be approved in advance by the Rules Committee with the costs being fully disclosed in 5 days. It would require that Members report exact assets and liability values on their financial disclosures instead of vague ranges, vague ranges that allow a Member to report between $5 million and $25 million in assets. That is too broad a range. 
   A $20 million range would require the subject of debate to be projected on the wall so it is visible to Members and people that are in the gallery. It would require that donations to political campaigns be reported in a searchable, sortable format on the Internet and have that within the last 30 days each day, within each 24 hours a report be filed. 
   I believe that passage of my Sunlight Act would do much to raise the levels of transparency in the affairs of this body, and it would also restore the public's confidence in our Members. It is disingenuous for the majority claim that they want to change things when they don't want to give a consideration of commonsense reforms like those outlined in this bill. 
   Yet this bill, as I worked it hard last year, could not earn one signature from a single Democrat as a co-sponsor. Now, I am refused the opportunity to even offer this as a bill. This is my only opportunity to even make the argument. 
   So I would make this argument, Mr. Speaker, that there were a lot of campaign promises that were made. It seems to me that the one that is the most obstructive to all of us is the promise to accomplish this series of things in the first 100 hours. The first 100 hours has been redefined. Many of these promises will be also given up on, and it will be difficult, and in many cases, impossible to keep those promises. 
   Mr. Speaker, why don't we just waive this promise of accomplishing all these things in the first 100 hours so the people of America can be heard on the floor of the Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RULES OF THE HOUSE -- (House of Representatives - January 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I rise to express concerns about the budget items in the Democrat Rules package. 
   I believe that we can do better and this proposal does not go far enough. I am committed to curtailing special-interest, pork-barrel spending and reforming earmarks. 
   While on the face it appears Democrats are concerned about reducing the deficit because they mention Reconciliation. This is only smoke and mirrors. Simply put, the language in their rules package makes it easy to raise taxes and difficult to reduce them. The language allows the use of expedited procedures (budget reconciliation) to raise taxes. At the same time, the language prohibits using reconciliation for tax relief. 
   We need transparency, accountability, and better control for the federal spending process. Earmark Reform and Reconciliation are baseless without a Rescission process for cutting spending. 
   Businesses and families often review their planned budget with actual spending on a monthly basis to spot and eliminate unnecessary spending. While common sense would lead taxpayers to believe that similar oversight exists for our federal budget, this would be wrong. Congress has no formal process that allows members to force votes to trim wasteful spending at any time after federal spending gets signed into law. 
   Soon I plan to introduce my legislation, the Cut the Unnecessary Tab (CUT) resolution, that would make any unspent federal funding vulnerable to a recorded vote for cuts at the beginning of each fiscal quarter. Any Member of the House could offer an amendment to these quarterly bills to cut spending. 
   Under my bill, Members of Congress will have four opportunities every year to propose elimination of programs that are superfluous or incompetent. This gives Congress a tool that individual Members can use to bring the chamber into commonsense spending cuts. No longer would any Member of Congress have the excuse that one individual acting alone would not have a way to reform the Federal Government's spending. 
   It is my hope that the Democrats live up to their promise for no new deficit spending. However, I fear that it's a plan to raise taxes. The resolution allows Democrats to increase spending as much as they like--as long as they ``pay for'' it by cutting other spending or--more likely--by chasing that spending with ever-higher taxes. This watered down PAYGO proposal does not reduce current spending--it stops tax cuts. This PAYGO applies only to NEW spending. All previous PAYGO versions were enforced by across-the-board spending cuts--that's what created the incentive to control spending. But the Democrats' PAYGO is enforced only by a point of order--which they can easily waive for their pet spending increases. 
   Congress can and must do better. The easiest and best way to stop the growth of federal spending and let American families keep more of their hard earned taxpayer dollars is to make these tough decisions now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE MORAL COMPASS OF THE UNITED STATES IN ITS QUEST FOR VICTORY -- (House of Representatives - July 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the privilege to be recognized to address you here on the floor of the greatest deliberative body the world has ever known--the United States House of Representatives. 
   I am pleased to be a part of this institution that has elections every 2 years, which requires us to put our fingers on the pulse of the American people. Even though most of us don't like the idea of a 24-24-7 campaign, that being 24 months, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, you set up a perpetual motion machine, and you make sure that the people on your staff and those who are working with you are out there constantly with their fingers on the pulse, listening, talking. 
   Part of my job is to listen, and part of my job is to project the things that I learn and the things that I know. We have people in this Congress who decide, well, their job is simply to vote the majority opinion of their districts. They don't necessarily consider whether the district is right or wrong as far as the majority is concerned. They just try to put their fingers on the pulse and decide, well, let's see. If 51 percent of the people think this way and if 49 percent of them disagree and think the other way, then if I come down on the side of the 51, then I'll be able to keep coming back here to Congress and sort out the opinions and be, let me say, the barometer of the people in their districts. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think that's wrong; I think that's narrow, and I think that's shortsighted, but I do believe we have a responsibility to listen to our constituents. We have a responsibility to listen to the people in our States whether they're in our districts or not. We have a responsibility to listen to the American people across the board. 
   In the end, each one of us--each of us 435 Members of the House of Representatives and every one of the 100 Senators on the other side of the rotunda--has a responsibility. We owe Americans and especially our constituents our best judgment. That means we listen to the people in the district and across the country. It also means that here we are where we are, in a way, the epicenter of information for the world, where information comes pouring in here, and if I need to find an answer to a question, I ask somebody and the answer comes, and it comes almost always in a form that I can use it and incorporate it into the argument that I'm making and further enlighten. 
   So we have access to more information here than most people have, at least across the country, and they're out there doing a good job. They're on the Internet, and they're reading, and they're watching the news, and they're thinking and having these conversations across the country. Their conversations help shape the middle of America. If some people weigh in on the right and some people weigh in on the left, it kind of comes out to a balance. It's going to balance. It's a moving fulcrum in the middle. 
   What we need to do is to take this access to information that we have--and we owe the people in this country our best judgment--and we need to weigh the information. We need to apply our best judgment to the real data that we have, and if we disagree with the majority of our constituents, that doesn't mean that we go vote the way they think we should. We may do so, but we have an obligation to let them know, perhaps, both sides of the argument and to step in and to make the case. Sometimes we're called upon to go back and to inform the people in our districts of the things that we know even though we know very well that they may disagree with our positions. 
   The first thing we have to do is to do what is right for our country. The second thing we have to do is to do what's right for our States. The third thing we need to do is to do what's right for our constituents. I have said a number of times that, if it's good for America and not good for Mom, I'm sorry, Mom; we're going to find another way to take care of you. My first obligation is not with individuals but with the broader, overall good for the destiny of this country. Often those things come together, and almost always they do. 
   I actually can't think of a time when I've had to put up a vote that was contrary to the wishes of my district or was contrary to the best interests of my district, but that's where I draw the line--an obligation. I owe the people in this country my best judgment  because that's essentially what they have endorsed in the election, and I owe them my best effort. 
   When you put those two things together and if we all did that, if we all stood on principle and offered our best judgments and our best efforts, if every motive in this place, Mr. Speaker, were an altruistic motive, this country would be a lot better off than it is today. 
   I lay that backdrop, Mr. Speaker, because I'm watching what has unfolded as we near the Presidential election in November of this year. We've all seen on the news the massive media coverage of the trip that was made over to the Middle East and to other parts of the world by the presumptive nominee for President for the Democrat Party. 
   I am troubled by what I read in the New York Times on January 14, in an article written by Senator Obama, where he laid out his plan and his strategy for Iraq. He was going to Iraq. He is there today on a factfinding mission. Today is the 21st or 22nd of July, but his article was posted on the 14th of July. It told everybody in America what he was going to find when he arrived over there on his factfinding mission, and it had been almost 900 days since he had been there. He had been there one time, Mr. Speaker, one time, and he drew conclusions. I don't actually know what he saw then, but he drew conclusions, and he had conclusions before he went. He didn't change his conclusions when he came back. 
   So, this time, he posted an op-ed in the New York Times that said, in part: On my first day as President, I will order a troop withdrawal from Iraq. That's what he said a week before he arrived in Iraq on a factfinding mission. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, I pose this question: I think he got it exactly backwards. I think, when you go on a factfinding mission, you can lay out what you think before you go. That's perfectly appropriate. To lay out the decision you're going to make after you're there and you gather the facts and you announce that before you go gets that exactly backwards. A factfinding mission needs to be just that. If you go into an area, you can say, ``Here is what I know. Here are my fundamental beliefs, but I'm going to talk to the people on the ground.'' 
   He met with General Petraeus. I would go and do that again myself. I've done it a number of times. I would meet with Ambassador Crocker. I would meet with General Odierno. I would meet with troops from my home State. I don't know if he did that. 
   I have many times walked into a mess hall over in Iraq and also in Afghanistan and have just hollered out ``Anybody here from Iowa?'' Then they'll come around and gather around the table. That has actually been successful all but one time. There was once when I went into the mess hall when there wasn't anybody from Iowa, but that's how I find out what's going on over there. I know, when I sit down at the table with soldiers, airmen, sailors, and marines from my home State, they will look me in the eye and will tell me the truth as straight as they know it. Sometimes they'll ask me to come off to the side, and they'll tell it to me real straight. They do that, and I can believe them because we're from the same State. We always know somebody whom we both know or somebody we're both related to or somebody whom they're related to or they're from a town where I'm from. As to this level of credibility that comes from people from the same locale, they're going to tell the truth because they know that those conversations go back and forth through the neighborhood. Plus, they're honest people and they're solid people, and they're honorable soldiers and Marines who are over there with their lives on the line for us. 
   I wonder what those soldiers from Illinois might have told the junior Senator from Illinois. I wonder if he gave them a chance to do that. I wonder how he interpreted it. I wonder what kind of message it would have been to a fellow who had served 147 days only in the United States Senate who had then decided that he had had enough experience to be President of the United States. 
   I wonder if they told him what they tell me. 
   I can tell you what they tell me, Mr. Speaker, and it is consistent, and it is without dissent from the people I talked to, and I'm open to all of them who come to me. They say, ``Let us finish our mission. You can't pull us out now. We are all volunteers. We're volunteers for this branch of the service. We knew there was a high likelihood that we would be ordered to deploy to this part of the world. We re-upped knowing that. Everybody in here signed up knowing this was a mission that they were most likely to be ordered on. We want to stay here and take on this fight and finish this fight to take the battle away from our children and grandchildren.'' That's the direct message that I've received over and over and over again in those parts of the world where we have troops deployed. I have an obligation to go over there and to visit with them and to pick that up from our line troops, from those people who are out there on patrols on a daily basis, from those people who are out there working in 125-degree heat with bulletproof vests on. 
   I notice that the junior Senator from Illinois arrived and got off the plane in Baghdad and had some pretty good photo ops while in shirt sleeves. I listened to the former admiral from Pennsylvania who spoke in the media here in the last couple of days. He would be Joe Sestak, Congressman Sestak, who made comments on, I believe it was, Good Morning America and also on Hannity and Colmes that there were at least three points on which the President and John McCain had come to Obama's position. I listened to that and thought: How could that be? 
   Well, he alleged that the President is adopting Obama's position on pulling out of Iraq and in setting a timeline. He also spoke about a couple of other issues there that he argued were Obama's positions--set a timeline, pull out of Iraq, et cetera. 
   I'll submit this, Mr. Speaker: The junior Senator from Illinois could not have stepped off of the airplane in Iraq in shirt sleeves or in a bulletproof vest and wearing a helmet, which most had to do when they went over there during the height of this conflict. He could not have done that today or yesterday if it hadn't been for the surge, if it hadn't been for President Bush in ordering the surge and if it hadn't been for General Petraeus in designing the surge and if it hadn't been for John McCain in supporting the surge and if it hadn't been for people like me who also supported the surge. 
   I introduced a resolution in this Chamber in February of 2007 that endorsed and supported the surge. I'm on record, Mr. Speaker, and I'm on record tonight in saying Barack Obama could not have set foot in the places that he did in Iraq if it hadn't been for President Bush's being bold enough to issue the order to follow through on Petraeus' idea and if it hadn't been for the support of Members of this Congress and of the Senate and of the support of people like John McCain who said this is a good alternative. It's a far better alternative than pulling out of Iraq and turning it over to al Qaeda. 
   In fact, if we had followed the leadership of the junior Senator from Illinois, we would have pulled out of there in 2005, and we would have turned Iraq over to al Qaeda. Instead of saying, ``well, Prime Minister Maliki, I think you ought to adopt my timeline on 16 months to pull troops out,'' he wouldn't be over there. The prime minister wouldn't be Prime Minister Maliki if we'd followed the leadership of the junior Senator from Illinois. It would likely be Prime Minister Zarqawi who would be there. Al Qaeda would be in control, and the Iranians would have flowed over across the Strait of Hormuz, and their influence within the Shiia regions in the south would be controlling much of the oil in the southern part of Iraq. 
   We have to think about what the consequences would have been had we pulled out when this supposedly visionary Presidential candidate, as the gentleman from Pennsylvania said, argued that the vision, the insight, of the junior Senator from Illinois is outstanding and impressive. 
   I say, no, it's utter failure. It's failure to understand that Iraq is a strategic part in the world, and the consequences of failing there cannot be measured against the advantage of having a couple of extra brigades that can be deployed into Afghanistan. When America accepts defeat, other Americans die. Later generations of Americans die. Other people, free people in the world, lose their freedom, and many of them die.  
   I have a constituent who is a refugee from Cambodia. She came here when she was 9 years old, and she lost a number of her relations in the killing fields in Cambodia, and she didn't see her father for years. She was kept away from her mother because she was put into a labor camp, a re-indoctrination camp, because the leadership in Cambodia concluded that the parents were a bad influence on the children. They wanted to change the culture of a generation, so they killed many. This is a result of our lack of will.     
   We didn't lose the war militarily in Vietnam. That didn't happen. We won every battle. We won every engagement. We tactically checked the North Vietnamese. We lost the battle in Vietnam right here on floor of the United States House of Representatives when they passed appropriations legislation that prohibited any dollars appropriated and any dollars heretofore appropriated, that means money that's already been sent that way and any new money, none of it could be spent on the ground or in the air over Vietnam, North or South Vietnam or Laos or Cambodia or offshore in the South China Sea. 
   We could not support the South Vietnamese. We trained them up, we gave them munitions, and we made them available, and they were ready so they could defend themselves. This Congress shut off the money. They shut off the ammunition to the M-16s that were in the hands of South Vietnamese soldiers. They shut off the heavy weapons like tanks and artillery, and they shut off the air cover that we had guaranteed. We guaranteed them we will provide you with the equipment that you need, the munitions that you need, and the air cover so that you can defend yourselves. 
   And we went through Vietnamization, and we trained the South Vietnamese military, and this Congress pulled the plug on them and broke that faith with the South Vietnamese people, and we wonder why they ran in front of the invasion when the North Vietnamese stormed down into South Vietnam? And the answer is, they didn't have a lot to shoot back with, Mr. Speaker. They didn't have anybody to support them, Mr. Speaker. 
   And 10s of thousands of them died. Many of them got into boats and tried to get out of the country. Many of them were sunk in ships going off of South Vietnam. A lot of them, though, got here to the United States where they started new lives, and this calamity flowed over into Cambodia. 
   All together, people in this Congress that were here then, a few, those that put up that vote, those that advocated for pulling the plug on our commitment to support South Vietnam seem to think that they saved American lives, and in reality, they probably temporarily saved American lives but 2 to 3 million of God's children died in the aftermath because we didn't keep faith with our word and we didn't keep faith with the South Vietnamese. 
   And so I will tell you, Mr. Speaker, that in General Giap's book, the North Vietnamese general who is credited with being the mastermind to what they celebrate as a victory over the United States, wrote in his book on page 8: ``We got the first inspiration that we could defeat the United States because the United States didn't press for a complete victory in Korea.'' In Korea, Mr. Speaker. 
   The Vietnamese understood that because we didn't press for a complete victory there, we settled for a negotiated settlement, and we set up a DMZ on, I think, it's the 38th parallel. When we did that, they saw that we did not have the resolve to finish the fight. 
   And so they began a tactic of undermining American public opinion, and the people in this country that marched in the streets and those who would undermine our troops just assuredly empowered the enemy. 
   And so this Congress put up the vote that shut off the support for the South Vietnamese, pulled all of our troops out of there, and in the collapse that happened, we saw the shame of lifting people off of the U.S. embassy in Saigon. 
   The people in Iraq remember this. Our enemies across the world remember what happened in Vietnam. Al Qaeda and Pakistan, and to the extent that they're in Afghanistan, and the very few remnants of al Qaeda in Iraq, they all understand. They've been marketed to by their leaders. They know what happened. They believe the United States lacked resolve in Vietnam. 
   They saw when the terrorists bombed the Marine barracks in Lebanon that we pulled out of there. They saw that even though there were all of 500 that were killed in the other side in the battle at Mogadishu, we lost 18 soldiers there, they saw us pull out of there. They saw us blink in the face of a conflict and not have the stomach for it. That's how they saw it. 
   I saw brave Americans step up every time they were given the order to do so. I never saw an American back up. I saw American politicians back up. I didn't see our soldiers, airmen or marines or sailors back up. 
   But when the politicians backed up, that put a marker down that inspired our enemies, and it may have, in Vietnam, saved some American lives, but in the long run, it put American lives at risk because our enemies were empowered throughout the generations. 
   I know this to be fact. Osama bin Laden has said so. Some of his other leadership has said so, and on June 11 of 2004, I was in Kuwait waiting to go into Iraq the next morning. I had a television station on, Al Jazeera TV, and there was an English closed-caption going on while the language was in Arabic. Moqtada al-Sadr, the infamous leader of the Mahdi Militia who now seems to have taken a far lower profile, Moqtada al-Sadr came on television and he said on Al Jazeera TV, If we keep attacking Americans, they will leave Iraq the same way they left Vietnam, the same way that they left Lebanon, the same way that they left Mogadishu. That's the message that he was pounding through Al Jazeera TV. Everybody in the Middle East could hear that message. 
   Now think for a moment, Mr. Speaker, what kind of a message does that send out to all of the rest of the sympathizers of our enemies, the radical Islamists, the jihadists, the people that are inclined to be supportive--and by the way, I asked the question of Benazir Bhutto while she was in Iowa giving a speech after September 11, I said: What percentage of Muslims are inclined to be supportive of al Qaeda? What percentage of Muslims are inclined to be supportive of al Qaeda? A straight, objective question that some will say, well, there's a bias built into the question. I don't think so. 
   I asked her that directly, and her answer was not very many, perhaps 10 percent. And the way it came off of her tongue said to me she had been asked the question before, she had answered the question before. Daniel Pipes puts that percentage at 10 to 15 percent, Mr. Speaker. 
   And so when you do the math, if it's 10 percent of 1.3 billion people, that's 130 million. That's a lot of people that are inclined to be supportive of al Qaeda. They are scattered across the world. And as we know, look in this country, the radicals in America show up, they come from really every State and many of the walks of life, and they're a small percentage, probably not 10 percent, but when they come to the streets of America, you get an entirely different message. And they recruit to each other, and they use the Internet to do that, and they come out on the streets and protest. 
   And so think of it in those terms. If you're a radical and you are marketing, trying to recruit other radicals, you aren't going to get 90 percent of the society. You're only going to be able to market to 10 percent, maybe 15 percent, those that are inclined to be supportive, but from that 10 to 15 percent, you can recruit a lot of fighters. 
   If you're al Qaeda and you are marketing to that 130 million people or maybe as many as 200 million people, if you take Daniel Pipes' number of going as far as 15 percent--let's just say 200 million people--on the 
   planet that are inclined to be supportive of al Qaeda, as high as 15 percent of the Muslim religion that are those inclined to be radical, and now what happens when you have Moqtada al-Sadr say, If we keep attacking Americans, they will leave Iraq the same way they left Vietnam, Lebanon and Mogadishu, some of those out there hear that message and some of them migrate towards the center, the center to where they can be recruited to fight for al Qaeda and attack and kill Americans.  
   That's gone on. That's gone on in Iraq since the beginning of the operations in March of 2003. It goes on in a far weaker effort today, but think of this. Think what happens if we pulled out of Iraq. If we have a Commander in Chief who has said we can't win, it's a loss, we're already defeated, the surge is a failure--oh, yes, the junior Senator from Illinois said repeatedly the surge is a failure, it can't work. Now, today, he can't say that out loud, but he said that in the past. He tore the things down off of his Web site that declared the surge to be a failure. And now the posture is, well, some things have happened there that have provided better security, but we need to pull our troops out and we need to pull them out on a timetable. 
   Well, here's something that you need to know. When there is a war, there is a winner and a loser. Both sides will seek to declare victory if there's any way that they can do that, but a declaration of victory does not constitute a victory. What constitutes a victory is achieving your objectives. Our objectives in Iraq were to provide freedom for the Iraqi people, leave them in control of their country, promote a moderate Islamic State that actually will have people going to the polls to elect their own leaders and direct their own destiny. And we hope against hope that they will be a strong ally to the United States. 
   And Mr. Speaker, in the times that I've made the trip over there, I surely have concluded that the Iraqis do intend to remain a strong ally to the United States. When I talk with their leaders, when the Mayor of Ramadi comes in and begins to talk about needing sewer and needing more electricity, needing more power, needing some roads, that sounds to me like maybe the Mayor of Des Moines, as opposed to the Mayor of Ramadi. 
   They do appreciate the sacrifice of the American people, and 4 years ago, the situation was this. Yes, all the Iraqis wanted the Americans to leave, just not anytime soon. They wanted to have control of their country. They wanted to be able to provide the security so that they didn't have violence going on constantly, and now that they're close enough, they are starting to feel like they can control their own country and provide security in their own country. 
   So that's the political push that Maliki is playing to as he gets ready for the elections that come up there later on this year and which will be perhaps as late as December or January of next year. There's politics going on, and if Prime Minister Maliki needs to tell the Iraqi people that he would like to see a timeline by which the United States would pull troops out of Iraq, yes, I wish I had that timeline, too. I understand why he has to say that politically, but truly, it would be foolhardy to set a timeline and declare our troops are going to be out of Iraq and not prepare for the enemy. 
   The enemy has a play in this, too. General Petraeus said the other day, The enemy has a vote, and not only does the enemy have a vote, but they are an independent variable. A very diplomatic way of saying you can't just declare that we are going to be in a position where we can draw our troops down to significant levels. It does look likely, and that's been the plan all along. 
   And you can go back through the announcements that were made by the Secretary of Defense, and let's just go through Secretary Gates back to Secretary Rumsfeld, we can go back through the commanders on the ground in Iraq, General Odierno, General Petraeus, and General Casey and General Sanchez, all the way on back to the commanders on the ground, the core commanders there on the ground, and what you will find is that each of them have had a plan that draws troops down when violence is reduced to certain levels. That is nothing new. 
   I mean, that's a plan, a strategy for all wars. You don't have to be a rocket surgeon to come up with the idea--and I said that on purpose, rocket surgeon--to come up with the idea that when you win the war, the troops come home. The idea was to win the war and bring the troops home, and bring them home while leaving enough of a force there to maintain security. 
   The surge was about taking over control and security within Iraq and then setting up the Iraqi military which has been growing and being trained all along. I saw the first Iraqi troops being trained in Mosul in October of 2003, and guess who was training those troops, General David Petraeus. Now, that was October. They went in and liberated Mosul in March of 2003. 
   Things not known by the American public, Mr. Speaker, General Petraeus set up elections in Mosul and two of the adjoining states, did so in May of 2003. They elected a governor, a vice governor and several other officers to be the civilian authority there in the country. 
   And so, as this has unfolded and developed in Iraq, the situation has gotten worse because over through the mid-years of 2005, 2006 and parts of 2007, that happened I think because we left too much of it in the control of the Iraqis, and we didn't grab a hold of the bull by the horns and reset the destiny.     
   That happened when General Petraeus came back from writing his book on counter-insurgency and when he took charge and we gave him the resources he needed to put the surge in play. It happened when President Bush ordered it. 
   And if it hadn't been for the surge, Obama wouldn't be able to set foot in many of those places that he's visiting today, pontificating on how right he was. He was utterly wrong. It was wrong to pull the troops out in 2004, 2005, 2006 or 2007. It's wrong to immediately order them out today. But we are bringing troops out of Iraq on a timely basis. And it's going to likely be right to bring more troops out in 2009. 
   And those levels that we can bring down, the concern we need to have is, what's the casualty rate there, and what does it take to sustain a level of stability? That's the questions that need to be answered, Mr. Speaker. And the very idea that because one junior Senator from Illinois has said that he disagreed with the war and that he disagreed with our troops there throughout the full duration, that we should pull the troops out immediately and that we should deploy some troops to Afghanistan, that he was right all along doesn't hold up, Mr. Speaker, because he's been wrong all along. 
   He would have turned Iraq over to al Qaeda. Al Qaeda would own a big chunk of that country today if we had listened to the junior Senator from Illinois, and Ahmadinejad would own the rest. Except for the Kurds; they would have declared independence and been immediately in a two-front work, with the Iranians on one side, the Turks on the other side. All of that would have been wrong. It would have been a tactical blunder. And all of that to, what, free up a couple of brigades to go to Afghanistan and talk about the broader picture for the world? 
   I think the American people have a better feel for the broader picture of the world than that. I think they understand this: If Vietnam, Lebanon and Mogadishu are enough to inspire Muqtada al-Sadr to mount a Mahdi militia and fight the way they did and die the way they did, and enough to inspire al Qaeda and Osama bin Laden and Zarqawi, if those three countries of the United States demonstrating lack of resolve were enough to inspire al Qaeda to attack the Twin Towers and the Pentagon and the plane that crashed in Pennsylvania--which was either destined likely for the Capitol here where we stand or the White House--if our lack of resolve in Vietnam, Lebanon and Mogadishu was enough to inspire all of that, think, Mr. Speaker, what kind of inspiration it would be to al Qaeda, to the Taliban, to all of our enemies if we lack the resolve to finish this war in Iraq that is so nearly finished. 
   If we handed it back over to the enemy, if we let it collapse around the Iraqi people, and if millions of them died as millions in Cambodia died because we lacked resolve there, Iraq would be declared a victory for al Qaeda, it would be declared a victory for our enemies because, here's the fundamental truth: It's like a street fight. When there's a street fight, usually the one who loses is the one who runs away, maybe cursing and shouting or is carried away by his buddies. The one who wins is still standing on the corner. That's who wins a street fight, that's who wins a war. You've got to own the ground, Mr. Speaker, and you've got to destroy the will of the enemy to commit war.  
   We've nearly destroyed the will of al Qaeda in Iraq. And I have set foot and walked around in most of the regions in Iraq, but particularly al Anbar Province, a place that I could not go a year and a half ago, I went there less than a year ago. I couldn't go there a year and a half ago because al Qaeda owned too much of al Anbar Province. That's a third of the real estate in Iraq. And the mosques were preaching then an anti-coalition, anti-American message. Today, there aren't any Mosques in al Anbar Province that are preaching an anti-American, anti-coalition message. The last numbers I saw were 40 percent were preaching pro-coalition, 60 percent were preaching a neutral message. 
   And the example of al Anbar Province, the very intensive Sunni Province, where the Sunnis joined up with us and provided intelligence and the Sunnis rose up and drove a lot of al Qaeda out and took them out, there was no place for al Qaeda to hide in al Anbar Province as long as the Sunnis were willing to team up with coalition American troops. And they did so. They did so because they believe that we're going to stick it out and we're going to be with them. They also believe that the future for Iraq is far better when the Iraqi people are determining their destiny rather than al Qaeda. They did so because of some of the very brutal tactics against civilians that were committed by al Qaeda. They did so for a lot of reasons. But in the end, people want their freedom. They want to be able to control their own destiny. They don't want to be ruled by a tyrant, and they don't want blood-thirsty al Qaeda in their regions. 
   So the good work that got done in Iraq could be thrown away with the stroke of a pen of a potential future Commander in Chief who said, before he went on his fact-finding mission, ``On my first day in office I will order a troop withdrawal from Iraq.'' That says to me, regardless of the conditions on the ground, regardless of the input that comes from the commanders on the ground, regardless of the facts, regardless of the intelligence, regardless of whether he hears this message that I have described, that pulling out of there creates a vacuum that hands over some of the control on the Iraq side of the Straits of Hormuz to Ahmadinejad, and pulling out of there will open things up for al Qaeda to reestablish a base camp there, and pulling out of there sets up the temptation for the Kurds to declare independence and end up with a two-front war and pits the Iraqis against the Iraqis. And without anyone to keep order, that is a very, very big gamble. And the most disagreeable consequence, Mr. Speaker, is that it would add Iraq to Muqtada al Sadr's list and make him right. 
   Then, Osama bin Laden would say, we have won in Iraq. And if we keep attacking Americans, they will leave. They will leave Afghanistan the same way that they left Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left Mogadishu. And if Obama is elected President, they will say, and also the same way they left Iraq. 
   Al Qaeda will declare victory and they will be right because we will not be standing on the ground. We will not be standing on the street corner. That's the measure of victory: If you're there, they can't declare victory, they have to come back and take it from you. It puts me in mind of a famous flag that I saw, it was an early flag during the Texas independence fight. The flag is a white battle flag, and it has on it the black silhouette of a canon, and it says, ``Come and Take It.'' It's an inspiring message that comes from Texas. And that's what they need to do if they're going to declare victory, they have to come and take it. But they have taken defeat in Iraq. We need to solidify our victory. We can't have a victory if we pull out, if we cut and run, if we order troops out of there regardless of the situation on the ground. It takes time to nurture this. 
   It was interesting to compare the history of the insurgency in the Philippines with the battle that we have going on against al Qaeda globally today. A lot of 
   the same kind of enemies, by the way, with some of the same kind of ideology. I will say, perhaps, the spiritual descendants, al Qaeda is likely the spiritual descendants of the enemies that we fought in the Philippines. That was from 1898-1902. 
   We sent the Marines there and we sent the Army there. General ``Black Jack'' Pershing was there. We took on those insurgents and we fought them for 4 years, and we lost over 4,000 Americans during that period of time. And during that period of time we also sent, by the numbers presented to me by the President of the Philippines, 10,000 teachers there. We sent priests there, we sent pastors there. We sent our culture over to the Philippines to lift them up and help them out. 
   It took a long time to put that insurgency down. And the violence went on several years after we were finished with our main part of the conflict going on in the Philippines. But a few years ago, President Arroyo of the Philippines came here to Washington, DC. She gave a speech in a downtown hotel, not to Members of Congress particularly, but to whoever happened to be in the crowd and attended that dinner. And she said, and I'll never forget it, ``Thank you, America. Thank you for sending the Marine Corps to our islands in 1898''--she forgot to say the Army. ``Thank you for sending the Marine Corps to our islands in 1898. Thank you for liberating us. Thank you for freeing us. Thank you for sending 10,000 teachers. Thank you for sending your priests and pastors. Thank you for teaching us your way of life, including our economy and our culture,'' because she said today--and language, ``thank you for teaching us your language'' because today, 1.6 million Filipinos go anywhere they want to go in the world to get a job, and they send the money back to the Philippines. And it's a significant percentage of their gross domestic product. She said the percentage, I've forgotten it, but I remember the theme and the rest of the things that she said. It was a clear thank you that came in more than a century later to thank America because we were there to give them their opportunity for freedom. And they hung onto that freedom and in fact fought with us through the Second World War and fought bravely and valiantly. And today, they're set up as a free and democratic country. 
   That's the result of a battle against an insurgency when we had confidence in ourselves, when we weren't undermining our military with defeatist comments. And by the way, I happened to notice this in the USA Today newspaper today, the Presidential election that went on during that period of time was about whether we would stick it out or whether we would pull out. And the Presidential candidate that advocated for pulling out was William Jennings Brian, a young charismatic Presidential candidate who was essentially a populist who said, ``let's get out of there, it's wrong to be there.'' 
   I'll make this point, Mr. Speaker: Americans voted for McKinley in that election, and they did so because he was a tough, crusty fighter that was going to stand up for the values of the United States. He wasn't going to back off. Once we engaged in a conflict, he intended to win. We did win. The Philippines are free today, they're free today because of it. We could have handed it back over, we did not. 
   The American people sided for freedom. And where American soldiers have gone, they've taken freedom with them. And by the way, wherever the English language has gone around this planet it has taken freedom with it as well, whether it was carried by the Brits, the Aussies, the Americans, the Canadians. I can't find an English-speaking country that is not a free country today. The English language is the best carrier of freedom that there is. And that doesn't mean if people speak English, they're free, but the culture of freedom goes with the language called English. That's the historical fact. 
   Today, the Philippines are free. And we won the insurgency there and there are lessons to be learned. General Petraeus references the Philippine insurrection in his book on counter-insurgency. It's an instructive lesson, it's a lesson of resolve. But additionally, if you look through the conflicts and the history of America, while we had elections during those conflicts--and the most instructive is the election in 1864 during the height of the Civil War and the carnage that took place there. We lost over 600,000 Americans--that would be total from each side--during that conflict of the Civil War; bloody  and brutal with thousands of casualties, actually thousands killed in a number of different battles. 
   And the will of the American people was tested on the north side of the Mason-Dixon Line and on the south side of the Mason-Dixon Line. And when the election came up in 1864, America was tired of war. They didn't know whether they could win or not--and I'll talk about the North didn't know if they could overcome the South. But the candidate that ran against Abraham Lincoln was General George McClellan. And General George McClellan was not an aggressive commander. He commanded the Army of the Potomac. And the Army of the Potomac was a large and massive army that had a chance at victory south of here and didn't press the enemy or he might have been able to close on Richmond and end the war within the first year. He didn't do that. 
   And so he went back and dug in and fortified Washington, DC to protect this city, and drilled and trained and fortified and drilled and trained and fortified until Abraham Lincoln sent him a letter that said, ``Well, if you're not going to use this Army, can I borrow it?'' That was the general that ran against Abraham Lincoln in 1864. And General McClellan's agenda was, ``we will sue for peace. We will negotiate a settlement so that this horrible war is over.'' And you know, if McClellan would have been elected, we wouldn't be one country today. The Mason-Dixon Line would have been the boundary between the United States of the North and the Confederate States of the South. 
   If that had been the case, if the American people had chosen to side with the candidate who wanted to accept less than victory, the United States would not be the United States. We wouldn't be the great Nation we are today. We wouldn't have been able to engage in some of these large conflicts that have turned the destiny of the world. We wouldn't have been, perhaps--I'll say almost certainly we would not have gone into the Philippines. We would have fought a defensive war in the Spanish-American War. Who knows who would have prevailed in that. They might have pitted the South against the North; clearly, that's what happens. There would have been residual animosity left over from the Civil War. We don't know the results of the Spanish-American War if we hadn't had a successful resolution to the Revolutionary War that tied this country back together.     
   If we were two countries instead of one, we wouldn't have engaged in World War I in the fashion that we did. An entirely different result might have happened. It might have been the Germans that won World War I instead of the Allied Forces. And when you get to World War II, the conflict that forced this country to mobilize, 16,000 men and women in an effort in uniform to win the global war, win the war in Europe and win the war in Asia, you put that all together, it would have been impossible to do so if there had been a United States of the North and the Confederate States of the South. We would not have been able to be one country. And when Japan attacked us at Pearl Harbor, I'd question whether there would have been a Pearl Harbor for them to attack. And who knows what would have happened if they had landed on our west coast which States would have been North and which ones would have been South. And would we have carried that resentment on to the next century and said, ``I'm not going to defend the Confederate States of America. After all, we fought a war with them less than 100 years ago.'' Who knows? But we could not have pooled our resources if we were two separate countries. 
   Abraham Lincoln had the resolve. The greatness of the man was he saved the union. Yes, it was bloody and it was brutal and it cost a high price. But the millions of lives that have been saved because of that weigh in favor of Abraham Lincoln's resolve to save the union. 
   And so who would have saved the world from the tyranny of Nazism, of Stalinism, the tyranny of the Cold War that would have washed over us, who would have saved the world from all of that if the United States had been two nations instead of one? I suspect it would have been nobody, and perhaps the last flames of freedom would have been snuffed out by the totalitarian regimes that came from imperialistic Japan and Nazi Germany and Stalinist Russia. How would anybody on this planet have stood up against that if we weren't one Nation under God, 48 States pulling together with our vast resources and our strong spirit, the spirit of freedom, and the confidence of American destiny that we had then, that has since been besmirched by Vietnam, Lebanon, Mogadishu? 
   But not, Mr. Speaker, not Iraq, I pray. Not another huge inspiration for our enemies. Let's seal the deal there. Let's demonstrate our resolve there. Let's stand on the principles that took us there. And when this country goes to war, it's our country, right or wrong, it's our country. And we need to sing off the same page of the hymnal and get to this point where we have a victory that is legitimately declared, not a retreat that we're going to try to redefine as a victory. We stay. We stand together. We finish the fight there. And when we do so, the legacy that's left will be one to build on instead of one to run away from. And let me just say we can never, never let leaders in the world, tyrants in the world, say, ``If we keep attacking Americans they will leave''--name your country. Let's say Afghanistan--"the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left Vietnam, the same way they left Mogadishu, the same way they left Iraq. Those ``the same way they left Iraq'' words can never be legitimately spoken. They must never be allowed to be legitimately spoken because if they are, more American lives will be lost, more of God's children across this planet will be lost, and the forces of evil and tyranny will be strengthened. Their resolve will be strengthened. Their recruitment will be strengthened. Ours will be diminished. And for the purposes of freeing up a couple of brigades to go to Afghanistan, it's not a bad idea to bolster some troops there, but NATO needs to send their people in there in big enough numbers and be willing to fight. The United States can't carry this alone. 
   What happened to the argument that we needed to have coalitions to fight these wars? We had 30-some nations on the ground fighting in Iraq. I stood in a place in Basra, where the British commanded, and at random counted officers there from eight different countries. In fact, I lined them up and took their pictures because I thought nobody's going to believe that we have this kind of a presence here in this country. We did. We had coalition troops in Iraq. We still have a good presence of coalition troops in Iraq. And for the junior Senator of Illinois to talk about pushing more troops over to Afghanistan, which I will support when they're freed up and I think we can produce enough troops to do so, but I would say back to him what about a coalition? Let's put some troops in there from the NATO countries in the world. Let's ask for a little more from them instead of America carrying this load all the way. Those things I think are components of this entire discussion. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, Americans wouldn't be walking around in the streets of Ramadi shopping, as I did, if it hadn't been for the surge and if it hadn't been for General Petraeus. Americans wouldn't be thinking of coming back home out of Iraq instead of being redeployed to Afghanistan if it weren't for the surge. Americans wouldn't be in a situation where we could say all of the indicators there define victory for us if it weren't for the surge. 
   I mean this Congress, and I thought imprudently, set up 18 different benchmarks for the Iraqis to meet. Of those 18 benchmarks, the Iraqis have met at least 15 of them and they are working on the other 3. They have accommodated this rather skittish Congress that we've had, and they have done that in the face of--since Nancy Pelosi took the gavel as Speaker in January of 2007, since that time to this floor there have been brought 40 resolutions, 40 resolutions that undermined our military, weakened our support for our military and our troops, and sought to unfund the troops, 40 resolutions sending the message Congress doesn't support our troops in the field. And I can say that, Mr. Speaker, because it doesn't work to say ``I support the troops but I oppose the mission.'' It  doesn't work to say ``Put your life on the line for me and my freedom and my security, but I think it's the wrong mission.'' When you ask somebody to put their life on the line, you've got to believe in their mission, you've got to stand with it, and you've got to make sure they have all of the equipment, all the training, all the support that's possible that can be generated by the treasure of a country that owes so much to its military people. 
   This situation, the idea of declaring what he finds out and then going there to find it, that does not hold up in a logical society. And declaring his first order would be to order troops out of Iraq, regardless of the situation on the ground, and then still maintaining a standard that if things get bad, we'll go back in, if you don't have the will to stay there now when the war is essentially won, you won't have the will to go back in. The American people know that, Mr. Speaker. 
   So there's much at stake. We need a strong Commander in Chief. We need a tough, ornery patriot. 
   And, furthermore, to tie this all together, in the history of America in every election when we have had a conflict, when we have been at war, there has been a presidential candidate that was less aggressive, a presidential candidate that was more of a pacifist, and in all but one of the circumstances that I can think of, there has been an opponent that said end this war at any cost, shut down the violence, let's get out of there, let's bring our troops home. And in every single case that there's been a presidential election during a time of war, the Commander in Chief whom the American people had the most confidence in winning that war and boldly moving us to victory, that's the person who won the election. That's the person who was elected to be Commander in Chief or the person who was elected to another term like Abraham Lincoln. McClellan lost the election because the American people are winners. We are winners because we know that when you engage in a war, you must win. The consequences for that multiply across the ages. 
   I can remember growing up and asking my father, who served 2 1/2 years in the South Pacific, ``Have we ever lost a war?'' And his answer was, ``No, the United States of America has never lost a war, son, and I pray we never do.'' 
   It's not that easy to say that today. I can make the argument. It wouldn't stick with a lot of people. But that's where we are. We must maintain the resolve. The American people will step up and they will elect a strong Commander in Chief who will see us through to the end in this war in Iraq. Someone who understands this global threat of al Qaeda, who understands that the infiltration that's coming in from Pakistan into Afghanistan is where the threat comes from; that the sanctuary that exists in Pakistan needs to be addressed; 
   someone who understands that in the history of the world, it's hard, difficult, and maybe not even possible to come up with an example of an insurgency that was defeated when it had a sanctuary in another sovereign country that it could be armed from and deployed from. I can't think of an example, and I can't get an answer from others when I ask that question. Perhaps there is one. 
   But as this lays out, the American people need to understand where we are in the continuum of history, and where we are is that we must be able to chalk Iraq up as a victory. It is in a critical strategic part in the world. Iran is developing nuclear weapons as fast as they can. And if we pull out our position to leverage Iran without warfare, it gets weaker and weaker, and it puts us strategically in a worse position to do something about it if we do pull out. Every indicator is negative if we pull out of there. If we stay and we finish this thing with honor and we can declare it a victory, a victory that historians will sustain as a victory, then under those circumstances we discourage our enemies. We shut off their recruitment. 
   They are, by the way, on the run now, and they have a place to hide, and we need to eliminate their places to hide, and I will agree with that. But I'm looking forward to the American peoples decision, their verdict in November. 
   And I just cap this off by shifting to an important piece, Mr. Speaker, and that is this circumstance right here, that is the number one issue on the minds of the American people. This, Mr. Speaker, is gas prices. And where we are today, and actually I haven't looked today, but I had them check the prices when we built this poster, $4.08 a gallon. I listened to the rhetoric through this Congress as we moved through the Bush administration when gas was $1.49 back here when President Bush took office January 20 of 2001. And then gas prices went up not a buck, they crept up to $2.33 over time. As we tried to open up more energy, as this Congress passed six to eight bills out of this House when we had a Republican majority, every one of them provided more energy, more access to refineries. They would have built refineries. It would have opened up natural gas drilling, Outer Continental Shelf, ANWR. We passed all of that off the floor of this House, Mr. Speaker, and sent it over to the Senate, where the minority over there, the people who are opposed to energy development, filibustered our energy bills. 
   If we would just simply apply all those energy bills, if they would have been applied at the time we passed them, this gas wouldn't be $4.08. It wouldn't even be $2.33. The Senate was blocking this legislation clear back here. This legislation in 2003, 2004, 2005, we passed smart energy legislation here, and I have given many speeches on the subject matter during that period of time and since. But what happened, Mr. Speaker, is they shut down the development of our energy. 
   If we're not going to develop new energy in the United States, then the supply is going to diminish. For example, if you drill a well down into the zone and you start that well producing, that well is going to peak out about right then. When it does so, then what will happen is it diminishes in its production. So when you make your discovery, that's the peak. If you stop discovering, if you stop exploring, if you stop drilling new wells, or if you slow it down, our overall energy production goes down too. 
   Well, gas was $2.33 when Nancy Pelosi took the gavel, and she said, We are going to get you cheap gas prices. I have no idea what the strategy was, any kind of a rational approach on that. So I'd leave that to them to answer that question. 
   But my strategy is more energy of all kinds. Let's take this gas price back to $2.33. It's $4.08 today. Let's drill ANWR. Let's drill the Outer Continental Shelf. Let's drill the nonnational park public lands. Let's drill the Bureau of Land Management locations. Let's open up the oil shale. Let's produce more ethanol, more biodiesel, more wind. If you add up all of those sources of energy, grow the size of the energy pie, produce more Btus--we are only producing 72 percent of our energy consumption. Let's produce 100 percent of the energy that we are consuming. 
   If we do that, these prices go down, and we get this gas price back to $2.33. And the people that are blocking energy production need to be held accountable by the American people. That is the bottom line. 
   Supply and demand sets the price. You cannot suspend the law of supply and demand any more than you can suspend the law of gravity. If we do that and shore up the dollar, Mr. Speaker, we will see gas at $2.33 again. I will continue to work on that. I will sign every discharge petition I can to get there. And I will ask my colleagues to do the same. And I will ask the American people to have a referendum on who is producing a policy that will generate more electricity for the American people. 
   It's my side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, not the other side of the aisle. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEVELOP ENERGY IN THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate greatly the privilege to address you tonight on floor of the United States Congress, and as I listen to my colleagues talk about the energy situation that we have here in America, it's quite interesting to me that my colleagues would say well, we can't drill in ANWR because in 10 years we are going to still have some other energy issue. 
   Are they looking for the silver bullet, I wonder? Do they insist that we can't do anything with regard to energy? We can sit here and deal with $4 gas? Unless we can fix $4 gas and make it $1 gas, we shouldn't do anything? I wonder what is the problem with the realistic approach to this that seems to be a barrier for my colleagues from the other side of the aisle? 
   We know this, that there is a little over 10 billion barrels of oil in U.S. reserves, and we know that the United States Department of Energy produced a number about three days ago that showed there is about 10.4 billion barrels of oil in ANWR. If we open up ANWR, we will essentially and virtually double the oil reserve supplies for the United States of America if we tap into ANWR. 
   Now, what kind of thinking person would say I would rather pay $4 for gas, or $5 for gas, or $6 or more dollars for gas before I would tap into 10.4 billion barrels of oil in a neighborhood up there that I would remind you, and I would remind the body, that in 1970, we were scheduled to go up to Alaska and drill for oil in the North Slope. I remember that very clearly, 1970. 
   The idea was, we will build a pipeline from the North Slope, Mile Post Zero up there at Dead Horse access on the Arctic Ocean, and that pipeline will run from there all the way down there through the Port of Valdez in Alaska where they will then tanker that oil down to refineries along the coast of California and other points. That was 1970. 
   The same philosophical environmentalists that are blocking drilling in ANWR today, the ones that took the floor just a few moments ago that said--where we shared--we dare not drill in ANWR because it's not going to solve all our problems are the ones that brought the lawsuit that brought the drilling that blocked the North Slope of Alaska in 1970. 
   In those days, there was a long and intense court battle that finally got the environmental extremists out of the way. In 1972, they said, all right, there isn't any logical or rational or legal reason why you can't drill the North Slope of Alaska. 
   So we went up and we started to punch holes in the North Slope of Alaska in 1972. In 1972 we started building a pipeline from the Arctic Ocean all the way down to the Port of Valdez. I don't actually know how far that is, but I know that there was a right-of-way for alongside the pipeline that went from Fairbanks 600 miles north. It's more miles than that from Dead Horse access on the Arctic Ocean on down to the Port of Valdez. 
   Even though the environmentalists in court blocked drilling in ANWR for that period of time for 2 years, even though we look back on that--well first, at the time, I thought how can the environmentalists be so effective as to shut down access to the American energy supply for two full years without a logical, rational or legal argument? 
   Well they did so, and now I look back on that, and I think how in the world did we resolve issue in two short years by going to court between 1970 and will 1972 to clear the environmental extremists out of the way and go in and drill in ANWR where all these extremists ideas were that if we punch our drill in the North Slope, if we punch holes in the North Slope, there will be oil flooding all over the permafrost, the tundra will be destroyed. They will be driving bulldozers through the tundra, and you can never put that environment back again. 
   It's a careful balance that Mother Nature has, and the caribou will all drown in crude oil. There won't be any wolves left, and it will just be a terrible economic or terrible environmental catastrophe. That was what they predicted in 1970. 
   In 1972 we started building the pipeline and building the right-of-way and drilling the wells on the North Slope of Alaska, identical in the environmental component that's there, to ANWR today. In 3 years we built the pipeline, we built the right-of-way road along the pipeline. We punched the wells in. We got the wells up and got them running. We hooked them in and began to transfer that crude oil down through that long pipeline down to Valdez and into other parts of the United States where it was refined. That got accomplished in 3 years. 
   And now, Mr. Speaker, the very people that sit over on this side of the aisle tonight that have blocked the drilling on the North Slope back 30-some years ago, and are blocking the drilling in ANWR today say, well, gee in 10 years, we still will have a problem with enough oil for the United States of America, and you will not solve this problem, the whole problem. You will not solve it in perpetuity so, therefore, you ought not do anything in Alaska to fix it.  
   What kind of a Nation would be foolish enough to set aside half of its crude oil reserves when gas is 4 bucks because of some myopic idea that you should not punch a hole down through the permafrost when you have proven 38 years ago--I should actually say 36 years ago--that we could drill wells through the permafrost, we could drill them on the North Slope of Alaska. 
   We could transfer that oil out of there into the terminal, start it in at Mile Post Zero in the Alaska pipeline, that 51-inch diameter line that runs from there on down to Valdez and pump all that crude oil, and we have done since 1972, 36 years. 
   If there was an environmental problem, I guarantee you that people on this side of the aisle lament anything that will lower the price of energy, would have told us that somebody spilled a gallon of crude oil someplace up there near the Arctic Circle. But have we heard them say anything about a single gallon? No, we have not. 
   I know it does happen. Occasionally, there will be a leak in the pipeline, a little rust hole, leak or something. They will go in and swab up the oil off the ice, weld the hole shut, patch the pipeline in and everything goes on. 
   But if there was a serious environmental problem, these would be the first people that would let us know. I am telling you, they don't have an argument. If you have one, stand up. I will recognize you. But, of course you won't, because you don't have an argument. 
   But you say to the American people, it's people like Louie Gohmert that wants to see $4 gas--no--Louie wants to punch a hole down there and suck this oil up out of the ground and lower the price of energy. 
   I would be real proud to recognize Mr. Louie Gohmert for as much time as he would consume. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEVELOP ENERGY IN THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Texas, and I appreciate his perspective. 
   I will point out that there are three branches of government, there is the executive, the legislative and the judicial branch of government. 
   I really only know of one person in the history of this country that has felt a compulsion to legislate, found himself on the bench as a judge, and decided that the constitutionally appropriate thing to do was to walk away from that judgeship and run for the United States Congress and come here to legislate. That's Congressman Louie Gohmert from east Texas. 
   I am proud to call him a friend and serve on the Judiciary Committee with him. I appreciate something that he brings to the table, a unique personality that's never been matched in the United States Congress and also the judgment of a judge that makes him a good listener and an analyst of the law and one who thinks deeply into the long-term ramifications of the decisions that we make. I look often to the prudence of the gentleman from Texas, and I appreciate him coming to the floor and offering his remarks for the energy situation here in the United States. 
   I said some year or 2 or 3 years ago that what is the solution for $2 gas? That's $3 gas. What's the solution for $3 gas? That's $4 gas. 
   Well, we are truly here at $4 gas, and that sounded like an outrageous kind of a number to put out back at that time. The reason I said that was as gas gets higher, we are willing to do more things to provide energy for the people in this country. 
   But when I sit here, and I think of the votes we have put up here on this floor, and I think of the decisions that have been made--and about 3 years ago, there was a bill on floor of the House of Representatives that said let's drill ANWR. I can remember there was a letter that was produced by Republicans that had 10 or 12 signatures on it that said we will join with all the Democrats, and we are going to block all drilling in ANWR. 
   We are not going to let that happen because of some idea about when the North Slope was opened up for drilling, there was some kind of an implicit promise that we wouldn't tap into the rest of the oil up there in that part of the world. That doesn't make any sense to me, I cannot rationalize that. 
   But I remember that letter that had 10 or 12 signatures on it, and the 10 or 12 Republicans that said ``no'' was enough to join with all the Democrats that said ``no.'' Had we done that, we would have more than a million barrels of oil a day coming down here into the United States to be poured into this marketplace, which would make a significant difference in the cost of energy in the United States of America.     
   But the 10 or 12 Republicans that were on the wrong side joined with all of the Democrats on the wrong side, and we didn't drill ANWR. And the rationale was pretty weak. I have had people say you want to tap into 2,000 acres in ANWR, what does that mean. 
   Well, there are 19.6 million acres in ANWR. And 2,000 acres out of that  would be the equivalent of a little postage stamp stuck in the corner of a football field. That is 2,000 acres in 19.6 million acres of ANWR. 
   And so if that is the part that is going to be a footprint to develop half of the oil reserves in the United States of America, and they are asking me this question, how much is an acre, Mr. King? So I say well, it is 208 feet by 208 feet, that is 43,580 square feet. That is, let me see, oh, about a football field. So it is about 2,000 football fields on 19.6 million acres. That is the equivalent of a postage stamp in the corner of a football field. That is all it is. 
   On top of that, we get access to these oil fields by ice roads on top of the frozen tundra, and then sinking wells on a work-over pad by which we do directional drilling. We pull a lot of that oil out into one single collection, and collect it in the collection tubes that go into the terminal at milepost zero, Dead Horse Access. That is what it is all about. 
   Can you imagine, Mr. Speaker, if you flew over that at 5,000 feet, a football field, you are looking for a postage stamp that is the same color as the grass, could you see that from 5,000 feet? Could you see that postage stamp from a thousand feet or 500 feet? Could you see it if you walked around on the football field looking for that postage stamp? I will submit not. 
   I will submit further that I can take the most extreme environmentalist on this side of the aisle, and I could put him in a Black Hawk helicopter and fly him around the North Slope today where we have developed oil fields, and I could ask them, tell me when we are over the oil field. Tell me what you see that violates your sense of intrusion upon this pristine environment that nobody goes to see. I challenge that not one of you environmentalists could point down out of the window of that Black Hawk and say, There is an oil well, there is a oil rig, there is a oil field. Oh, it violates my sense of what Mother Nature is all about. Not one, Mr. Speaker, because when you look over the oil fields of the North Slope, there is not a single derrick down there. Not one structure sticking up in the air 230 or 240 feet that is set to drill for oil. 
   There is not, as I could find, not a single pump jack pumping that oil out of the ground looking like an oil field, which doesn't offend my sensibilities, by the way, but maybe offends some of you over there. And let me know why that is the case, and I will yield to you. But no, you don't see any of that. And the reason why is because the wells are underground. The wells are drilled. They don't have pump jacks sitting above the ground, they have submersible pumps way down in the casing at the level of the oil. 
   The collector tubes don't even show where they are, and I don't know if they lay on the ground or if they are slightly subterranean, but they collect the oil that goes into the tanks at the terminal at Dead Horse Access, milepost zero, on the Alaska pipeline. And there it gathers it together and it sends it down that 51-inch pipeline down to the Port Valdez. 
   Now I cannot understand why a people that is dependent upon energy, a people whose economy is run by energy, a people who sit on billions of barrels of oil, would somehow draw some kind of a moral position that even though no one goes up to the North Slope, and if they went up there they wouldn't know what they are looking at, and if they saw it they wouldn't be offended by it, and it would be environmentally friendly, all of those things, but somehow we have some kind of a Mother Nature religious aversion into tapping into American energy. Why is that, Mr. Speaker? 
   When the 110th Congress convened, I did not know, I really thought there was a sense of conscious and goodwill and a way that we could move forward with the American economy and the American people. I could not at that time have believed that the core of the Democrat Caucus in this Congress sincerely believed that energy costs should go up no matter what it takes, shut down the drilling in ANWR, shut down the drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf, don't let any drilling happen in the non-national park public lands in America, don't do any of that because by blocking all of that, we are blocking the delivery of energy to the economy of this dynamic, robust free country that we have. Why? What rationale, can there be. 
   Well, first of all they hate capitalism. They don't want to see prosperity, and they want to see energy cost more. I am convinced that this regal Pelosi Congress wants to see energy cost more. 
   What is it that the regal Pelosi Congress likes better than $2 gas, $3 gas. What do they like better than $3 gas, $4 gas. You've got it. You should be happier now, and I know you will happier yet when it is $5 gas. This is the drill-nothing Congress. This is the develop no energy Congress. This is a drive the energy prices up Congress. This is the Congress that is punishing the American economy. They know that an economy requires energy, and the more expensive it is the less economic activity that we will have and the more it will slow down. When it slows down, we will burn less energy. When we burn less energy, there will be less greenhouse gases that go into the atmosphere. 
   And then, and this requires an article of faith, the leap is if we assume less energy, there will be less greenhouse gases and then there will be less global warming. 
   Now there are two reasons why that is a bad idea. First of all, 95 percent of the greenhouse gases are created by nature. The other part is the 5 percent of the greenhouse gases that are created by man cannot be 100 percent controlled by man. Reasons for that are the Chinese and the Indian economies are growing. They are going to burn more coal and release more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and they are going to create more greenhouse gases, and they don't care. They don't care because their people are hungry and they need economic development. They are not dying because the planet is 1 degree too hot, they are dying because the planet is short of calories and protein for them that keeps them alive, and it is short of health care. So they know what their priorities are. 
   Here we are running this myopic agenda that we are going to make energy more expensive and we are going to see $5 gasoline and $6 gas, and people will park their cars and grandmothers in Iowa are going to ride their bicycles 10 miles to town through a blizzard. I mean, they are not going to do that. We know they are not. But the people in San Francisco and New York and Boston don't know that. But I'm here to tell you all, that's the case. They are not going to park their cars and ride their bicycles to town in January in Iowa. It is not going to save the planet. It will keep grandmother home. She will not be living this life to the fullest that she could. Millions of Americans will not be living this life to the fullest that they could. 
   And when you bring your myopic, Goddess of Gaia faith-based approach, and I mean this from a nature environmentalist extremist perspective to this economy, you drive up the cost of energy and you slow down the activity of our economy and impoverish the people of America and you think you are going to save the planet and it is all worth it. 
   Here is what it is. It is not worth it in the first place. And the second place is you are not going to save the planet. And you are not going to do that because the science doesn't support you in that. And if it did support you in the idea that if we shut down America's emissions of greenhouse gases, we don't affect the Indian and the Chinese and the other growing economies' emissions of greenhouse gases, and so we are here in the United States shouting out into a thunderstorm trying to solve a problem. 
   It won't work, it can't work, it is not rational. There is no scientific base that upholds it. And on top of that, there is not the sociology that says human nature will support the kind of approach that you bring to this. Drive up the cost of energy and slow the emissions of greenhouse gases, and if you do that, the planet will what, is it going to cool? No, it isn't going to cool. It might not increase in its temperature quite so much, but we can't prove it and we don't have a model that says so. In fact, our models say we can only affect 5 percent of the greenhouse gases if all humanity joins together, and we are a small percentage of the emissions of the entire planet. And even if we controlled them all, the Indians and Chinese are going to increase their emissions of CO  
   2 and greenhouse gases.  
   So why go through this exercise to unilaterally disarm the economy of the United States so we can't compete around the globe economically with free trade, militarily, culturally, and politically. What is it about America that you don't like over on this side of the aisle? Why is it the blame-America-first crowd is carrying the agenda in this United States Congress? 
   Why is it that the constituents of Iowa and Nebraska and Kansas and all of the way out to the left coast and all of the way to the right coast, why are they paying $4 for gas with this driven-up price of energy, and why have you blocked the drilling in our non-national park public lands, and why have you blocked the drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf where we know there are 406 trillion cubic feet of natural gas out there, coupled with the oil that naturally goes with it that we can't tap into to drive down the cost of fertilizer, to drive down the cost of energy, to lower the cost of BTUs, to add to the overall supply of energy in the United States of America? Why can't we do that? 
   It is because you have a religious belief and it is kind of like the laws of your nature and the laws of your God say that we should cut down on greenhouse gases because of this belief that, and say religious belief, and I have strong religious beliefs. But sometimes that religious belief is defined as something that you say you believe in that you have no scientific basis for. 
   If you believe in this global warming God, and you cannot stand up and defend a scientific basis for a belief in a global warming God, then it is a religious belief. It is a religious belief that is unfounded. It is one that is unfounded on science and one that can't be proven. 
   We have watched this planet. Yes, it is a little warmer than it was 20 years ago. But if you look at the data, it might be cooler than it was 2 years ago. We had a long winter, we had a late spring. Most of my constituents thought global warming would be a good thing. 
   And by the way, the beginnings of this global warming debate began here in Washington in August years ago when not many of the office buildings and the ones they had the hearings in were not air conditioned and we had a Ph.D. come out here from Iowa who testified that global warming was an impending disaster, and the Members of Congress were sitting in a hearing room with temperatures approaching 100 degrees and humidity approaching 100 degrees, and as the sweat dripped off them, it was not hard to convince them global warming was a problem. We have one of those scientists who advocated it was an impending ice age in 1970. 
   He cited his scientific ability to predict to us that we should figure out a way to gird our loins and get ready for the next ice age. That was 1970. So some of us girded our loins, and some of us just went to work, and we went on and realized that God runs this planet, not man. In his time he will let us know and we will do what we need to adapt. And in 1970 the impending ice age didn't come. The idea that it was going to be here went. 
   And so here we are in 2008. And guess what, Mr. Speaker, that scientist that was a part of the Time magazine prediction that we had an impending ice age is today a scientist that says you can't avoid it, we have an impending global warming period of time, and it is going to happen and here is what you need to do, shut down your economy and greenhouse gas emissions, don't produce energy, and somehow or another we will help avoid, dodge this bullet which is the idea that the Earth could be a couple of degrees warmer. Some of the ice could melt and the sea level could go up a couple of a tenths of a foot or so. 
   Mr. Speaker, when I asked the USGS people what is sea level, well, they have an elevation that they pegged by satellite, but they couldn't really peg sea level because it goes up and down. It is awful hard to catch. The tides go in and out. Wind stacks water. And if you go to New Orleans, and I asked them what is going up and what is going down here, and what is settling and what is swelling up, they don't know. They don't know what the elevations are in New Orleans, Mr. Speaker, and yet we have scientists telling us that sea level is going to rise by a certain amount and that is going to start to swamp the coast land areas, but we don't know what sea level is. 
   So we do have an energy situation in America, and the energy situation is this: $4 gas; $4 gas. And the people in my district are buying gas. And they are paying the price, and they are paying 18.4 cents a gallon Federal, and they are paying more than that for State gas tax. They look and they expect that all of that money is going to go to road construction and road maintenance to make sure that they have a good transportation route. That's why they pay that gas tax. 
   So you are at 42-point-something cents a gallon in my State, but I can tell you for sure 18.4 cents of that is Federal gas tax dollars, my constituents believe, Mr. Speaker, that we are converting all of those dollars in that gas tax into road construction and road maintenance, making sure that they have a good transportation route.     
   Users fees, drive on the road, pay the tax. All right. We're good with that. We're user people, and we like user fees, and we know it takes money to run the government. There's nothing more appropriate than a user fee, a per gallon gas tax. 
   The problem, Mr. Speaker, is that most of the money that my constituents, and, in fact, all constituents in America, the Americans that buy the gas and pay the gas tax, most of the money that they spend does not go towards road construction or road maintenance. No, Mr. Speaker, it gets diverted off on these other things, like, for example, 3 percent of that 18.4 cents goes to trails, to build bike trails. So apparently we don't have bicycles riding down the highway. 
   Now I kind of like it that the bikes are out there riding doing their thing. But I'm not so sure that's that a good idea to tax the people that drive cars so the folks that ride bikes have a place to ride them. 
   Second thing is, it takes 28 percent of that 18.4 cents of gas tax, 28 percent to meet the environmental and the archaeological requirements in order to build new roads and maintain the ones we have: 28 percent. 
   And, Mr. Speaker, it takes another 17 percent to subsidize the mass transit in the United States. And so, right there, Mr. Speaker, is the answer to the question that I've asked many times, and that is, how is it that the constituents of Speaker Pelosi, of the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Charlie Rangel, of the chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. Barney Frank, how is it that their constituents let them off the hook? Aren't they angry that they're driving up the cost of gas? Don't they get mad when they have to pay $4 for gas? 
   How is it that somebody in San Francisco or New York or Boston or Washington, DC, for that matter, can have the patience to spend $4 for gas and not hold their Congressman or their Congresswoman accountable if they're the ones that are pushing up the price? 
   Well, now, here's a piece of the answer, Mr. Speaker, and that's this. Of the 18.4 cents of Federal gas tax dollars, 17 percent of that goes into mass transit funding. Seventeen percent. That means that if you pull into the gas station in Iowa, and you squeeze the nozzle and you pump a gallon of gas into your car, and that's all you can afford, you only have 4 bucks. You're going to pay 18.4 cents in tax for Federal, 20 some percent State. Of the 18.4 cents in gas tax that you pay, 17 percent of that money goes to fund the mass transit. 
   So, if you're riding the cable car in San Francisco, you get a cheap ticket because it's funded by the folks in my district and across America that are buying gas. 
   And if you jump on the El in Chicago you get a cheap ticket because it's funded by the folks in my district and across America that are buying gas. 
   If you jump on the subway in Charlie Rangel's district in New York and you ride it, you get a cheap ticket because that's subsidized by the people all across America that are buying gas. 
   And if you go into Barney Frank's district and you jump on, I don't know what they call it, the subway, the Big Dig, the major multibillion-dollar boondoggle and you buy a ticket to ride along on that thing, you get a cheap ticket because it's subsidized by  the folks all across America that are paying 4 bucks for gas. 
   And, Mr. Speaker, if you go out here outside this Capitol building and you walk a little block over and a block down and you get into the Metro on South Capitol, and you ride over to Falls Church, Virginia, that's going to cost you about a buck and a quarter, and that buck and a quarter is a cheap ticket that's subsidized by all the folks across America that are paying 4 bucks for gas. 
   The constituents of those Members of Congress that are driving up the cost of energy, the regal Speaker Pelosi, the Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Rangel, the Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. Frank, all of them, their constituents are riding to work, going into town, riding around on mass transit that is 17 percent of the Federal gas tax dollar, that's subsidized by the people that are buying gas. 
   Why aren't they angry? They don't care, Mr. Speaker. They don't care because they got a buck and a quarter from South Capitol to Falls Church. They've got a cheap ticket, a cheap ticket that's subsidized by the people that are paying for expensive gas. And that's why they're not feeling the pressure. 
   But I can tell you, even though my constituents are utterly polite and respectful about all this, I can feel the pressure because I'm one of them. It cost me $41.42 to fill up my tank the other day at $3.85 a gallon. 
   So here, Mr. Speaker, is the solution. This, Mr. Speaker, is the energy pie chart. Now, this might seem like it's very simple, and actually it is, although, to approach this concept seems to be a little complicated. 
   Energy production in the United States of America, for 2007, well, I'll take the position, Mr. Speaker, that it's about all the energy. It's all interrelated, whether it's nuclear or hydroelectric, geothermal, biomass, motor gasoline, diesel, other petroleum, natural gas, coal, whatever it might be, if all of the energy in the United States is interrelated, and if you raise the cost of one form of energy, it's going to affect the cost of the other kinds of energy. And consequently, and correspondingly, if you drive the price down of one kind of energy, you'll lower the price of all kinds of energy because it's all interrelated. 
   So I've taken the trouble to build this chart. And I can't tell you how difficult it actually was. It should have been a simple no-brainer. It's not. But here's the energy pie chart. We produced 72.1 quadrillion Btus of energy in the United States last year. That's 72 followed by, I think, 15 zeros. Three, six, 9, 12, 15. 72 quadrillion Btus. It's more important, I think, to think of it in terms of the proportionality of it. 
   This is all the energy that we produced in America. Now, the percentages are on here. 27 percent was natural gas, 32 1/2 percent was coal, nuclear was almost 12 percent, hydroelectric 3.4, other versions, geothermal, wind, solar, fuel ethanol is a little smaller, a lot smaller than you would think. It's three-quarters of a percent of the overall production in America. Biodiesel, one one-hundredth of a percent. Biomass, 4 percent. That could be the people burning wood and the methane, et cetera, that comes out of there. Gas was only 8.29 percent of our overall production. 
   The list goes on. You can see it here, Mr. Speaker. Now, that's energy production. 
   What I've done is, Mr. Speaker, taken this pie chart of the energy pie, I'll call it, and I cut this out so that I could put it on top of the energy production, or the energy consumption in America, so you can see how this works in just a moment. 
   All right. This, Mr. Speaker, is the energy consumption chart in America. And the outside circle, and I'll kind of line them up here a little bit; the outside circle is the energy that we consumed. Actually, I think I might be able to do it this way. 
   This is all, Mr. Speaker, the energy that we consumed in America last year. Energy consumption, United States, 2007, 101.4 quadrillion Btus. Number down here, 101, comma and the equivalent of 15 zeros out. 
   Now, we're dealing with 72 quadrillion there, 101 there. So let's just think, Mr. Speaker, in terms of we produced 72 percent of the energy that we consumed in 2007. And this is a picture of the consumption, this round spot here is a picture of the production. This circle is smaller than this circle. That's kind of like Energy 101, probably the first time that that idea has arrived on the floor the Congress, Mr. Speaker. 
   And so you look at the percentages of the overall consumption, and you see natural gas is 23 percent, and we produce 27 1/2 percent of all the natural gas that we consume, but it's 23 percent of the overall Btu picture here. 
   Coal, 22 percent, nuclear, 8.29 percent, hydroelectric, 2.4, smaller pieces of energy here, including ethanol, biodiesel, wind, .31 percent. Not very much. We're working on this. 
   By the way, I do represent the number 1 renewable energy producing congressional district in America, and so we're not without knowledge on this subject matter. 
   Gas, 17.44 percent of the overall Btu consumption in America. And here in the red we have the diesel fuel and heating oil at 8.84 percent, kerosene jet fuel here, 3.3 percent and other kinds of petroleum, asphalt and that kind of thing, almost 10 percent. 
   So, what do we need to do, Mr. Speaker? 
   Well, here's a way to approach this thing from my view. The small circle is energy production. The big circle is energy consumption. And so you don't have to be a Harvard M.B.A. or, let me say, a rocket surgeon, to be able to calculate this, Mr. Speaker. The inside circle, which is energy production, needs to grow to the size of the outside circle, which is energy consumption. 
   Yes, we could maybe add another piece to this energy production pie called energy conservation that will help us grow the size of this inner circle to get it to be the size of the outer circle. But however we do this, we're producing about a little more than 72 percent of the energy that we're consuming. And so we can stand here on the floor of Congress, until all Hades freezes over and talk about this piece of energy and that piece of energy, and somebody's wrong because they want to drill ANWR and somebody else is wrong because they don't want to drill the Outer Continental Shelf; somebody else is wrong because they think ethanol is a good idea, or biodiesel's a good idea, or they could even make the ridiculous argument that somebody's wrong because they think that we ought to dramatically expand our nuclear. 
   And, Mr. Speaker, we should dramatically expand our nuclear production of electricity. That is the single most effective thing we can do, cut down on the emissions of greenhouse gases, and replace the consumption of other energies and allow those other energies to be used for other purposes. We can produce a lot of energy with nuclear. 
   But in the end, it's this. I'll go right around the circle. Natural gas, drill the Outer Continental Shelf, drill the non national park public lands, open up the natural gas production in America, the place where we have enough natural gas to heat every home in America for the next 150 years. Get the slice of the pie in production as big as the slice of the pie in consumption on natural gas. 
   We go over here to coal. Why in the world can't we produce and burn more coal to add to the overall size of the energy pie? Yes, we can. And we should do that, and we should do that until it's no longer cost effective as competing against these other signs, other components of energy. 
   Nuclear. I talked about the nuclear. Here's the overall percentage of our energy production in nuclear, which happens to be 11.66 percent. But it needs to be a bigger piece of our energy consumption, and we can broaden that out. 
   You can see how these pieces of the pie come out to the edge of the circle and they get wider. We do that with ethanol, we do it with biodiesel, we do it with wind, we do it with biomass. 
   We can produce more gasoline, Mr. Speaker, and we can produce more diesel fuel and more jet fuel and we can produce more natural gas. There is no component in this energy pie that we cannot produce more of. And if we grow the size of the energy production pie to meet or exceed the size of the energy consumption pie, we have then solved the problem of energy dependence on Middle Eastern oil, on foreign energy.  
   Mr. Speaker, we can do this. We should do this. We must do this. And any idea that says that we should strike off of our list of options any component, and you will hear almost every source of energy vetoed and opposed by Members of the other side of the aisle. Some will stand up and say, no more nuclear. We will not do any more nuclear plants. 
   Some will say, can't drill in ANWR because 36, 38 years ago, somebody said, well, we're not going to ever drill ANWR. That's our deal. 
   And somebody else will say we can't drill the Outer Continental Shelf because people sit on the beach in Florida will figure out that there must be a drill rig out there 199 miles away. 
   Mr. Speaker, I will tell you, I talked to three children in Lineville today. They're down on the border with Missouri and Iowa.     
   And if they stand with their back to Missouri and they look north, it's 200 miles to the Minnesota border. And for them to say, I can't have a drill rig up there on the Minnesota line because it offends my idea of sightseeing with my back to Missouri 200 miles from there is as ridiculous as the people on the beach in Florida saying you can't have a drill rig 200 miles offshore. 
   No, Mr. Speaker. There is a reason, and more like an excuse. And my father taught me a little bit about that. He said there's a difference between reasons and excuses. There are all kinds of excuses for not developing energy. I can't find a single reason, Mr. Speaker. 
   Unless you like $4 gas, unless you like $5 gas, and unless you like expensive energy, expensive energy shuts down our economy. You shut down our economy, it uses less energy; if it uses less energy, it emits less greenhouse gas; if you emits less greenhouse gas, somehow or another in this fantasyland world where you're out there in Pa-la-la-losi land, you're going to save the planet if you shut down the economy is the only rationale that's there. It's weak and it's unfounded, Mr. Speaker; and we've got to open this energy for the American people. 
   And with that, I thank you for your indulgence. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENCOURAGING DISPLAY OF THE FLAG ON FATHER'S DAY -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise in support of this legislation which would add Father's Day, the third Sunday in June, to the list of holidays listed in the U.S. flag code on which it's particularly appropriate to fly the American flag. 
   It's altogether appropriate that Father's Day be added to the list of holidays on which the flag should be flown. Both fathers and mothers are essential elements to the basic family unit that has made America so strong. And so the flag should be flown proudly on both Father's Day, as provided by this bill, and on Mother's Day, as already provided in existing law, as a sign of respect for both mothers and fathers and the essential role the traditional family plays in raising new citizens in our democracy. 
   I would add, I want to also thank Congressman Todd Tiahrt for bringing this initiative to Congress. It's interesting to note that there was a class in his district that when they were studying the history and studying the days that the Federal Government encourages display of the flag, they noticed that Father's Day was missing. They had written a letter to Congressman Tiahrt asking that he take action on this, and he has introduced a bill and it complements this bill before us. 
   So I thank him for that and I wanted to emphasize how important it is for citizens to weigh in and to reach out and communicate with Members of Congress because here's a perfect example of how young people saw a gap, had their voice heard, and we have an opportunity here now to fill that gap.  
   The first Father's Day celebration occurred in Fairmont, West Virginia, in 1908, and the first Mother's Day celebration occurred just 15 miles away in Grafton, West Virginia. So that neighborhood is the home now of Father's Day and Mother's Day. But it's a historical anomaly that Mother's Day and Father's Day were instituted so close in time, but it has taken until today for the House to pass a bill to add Father's Day to the day on which it's especially appropriate to fly the flag. 
   President Calvin Coolidge recommended Father's Day as a national holiday in 1924; and in 1966, President Johnson made Father's Day a holiday to be celebrated on the third Sunday of June. The holiday was officially recognized in 1972, during the Presidency of Richard Nixon. I look forward to President Bush signing this legislation into law and encouraging all Americans to fly the flag of their own fatherhood celebrations, which will happen at my house. 
   And as a father, I'm particularly pleased to be here on the eve of the next Father's Day, helping support this piece of legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENCOURAGING DISPLAY OF THE FLAG ON FATHER'S DAY -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I might consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, listening to Mr. Scott talk about the importance of fathers and mothers in the family and the home and the children, I can't any longer resist reflecting through the generation and what this means to me as we discuss this bill that will encourage the special attention to flying the flag on Father's Day. 
   All of us, each of us has a father. We don't always get to know that father, but I certainly got to know mine. There is hardly a day that goes by that I don't think of him. 
   I know that there is never a day that goes by that his influence on me doesn't show up in me in something that I do. I look at the grandfathers that I have known. I had the privilege of knowing one of my grandfathers. I watched the message that came from them, the work ethic and the history, and to sit on his knee and to listen to him tell me about his father and his grandfather and the relation of the families and about how far it goes back and rooted into the settlers that came across the country, the pioneers. 
   My grandfather on my mother's side was sent at a young age, about 13 years old, to go from Indiana to Iowa, to go work on a farm that had only daughters and no sons. What little bit of pay that he got, even at that young age, he had to send back to Indiana. Then when he needed a pair of shoes, he had to write a letter and ask, can I have some money, I need a pair of shoes. 
   Well, he was a smart young man, and he married the farmer's daughter, and another generation began. That farmer's daughter and that fellow, of course, that young man, were the parents to my mother. 
   But on my father's side, my father taught me some things that I think have been invaluable in my life. He was the one that always challenged me. Every evening we sat down, all our life was about like the book ``Fun with Dick and Jane.'' Every evening we sat down at the supper table, and Dad carried the conversation. It was either about his day at work, or it was about current events, and then sometimes and oftentimes it was the same thing, given his job. He was the one that taught me to be intellectually honest. 
   First, you listened before you spoke, and you looked for an opportunity, and the amount of seniority you had in the family and credibility gave you a little bit more opportunity to speak. But if you spoke, and you could not support the statement that you made, he would be there to challenge you on what do you support that statement with. Why can you make a statement like that when these are the countervailing facts? 
   So, from a young age, one of the most important things my father taught me was to be intellectually honest and expect to be challenged if you are not intellectually honest. 
   On one of those occasions we began a discussion of whether you can convert watts to horsepower. We had a debate going on, an argument going on, that lasted for 3 days. Every night at supper, I would start that debate up again. 
   Then I went to the school library and went through a book and finally found the equation that showed how to do the math between watts and horsepower. I snuck that book down to the supper table, marked it, set it on my knees throughout supper. Then when we finished eating and the conversation began, we went into that discussion again. 
   When I got him just to the right point in the conversation that I could win the debate, I pulled out the book, opened it up to the formula and said here, so many watts equals horsepower. I thought I had the argument won. But I had not been apparently intellectually honest enough, because he said, that's not what I am talking about. Horsepower is mechanical power, watts is electrical power, and you can't equate the two. I learned a real important lesson there as well, but time after time, day after day, the important values of hard work and ethics and integrity and telling the truth and knowing that when I looked him in the eye he knew what was in my mind and he knew what was in my soul. 
   Even when I watch my hands work today, they are the hands of my father doing that work. When I come here to work here in this Congress, I know that I just don't represent the 600,000 people in my district, which is a profound thing and a tremendous honor to be able to do that, but all of us are the legacy of our fathers and mothers, the work ethic that they taught us, the values that they taught us. We are what has come through that crucible. We are the representatives of the generations.     
   And to be those representatives, we can thank two people in our lives more than any others, and that's our fathers and our mothers. And I think that came through Mr. Scott's discussion here very well, and I appreciate that that's in the record and we had the opportunity to hear that. I wanted to add some of those words from my side of this as well. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RECOGNIZING 40TH ANNIVERSARY OF LOVING V. VIRGINIA LEGALIZING INTERRACIAL MARRIAGE -- (House of Representatives - June 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I want to thank the gentlewoman from Wisconsin for presenting this resolution to this Congress, and I notice that many of the statements that she has made have laid out I think the history of this Loving case very well to the Congress, and so what I will seek to do is perhaps just add and fill in perhaps some of the blanks that may have been left, although I'm not convinced that there are many. 
   And that is the emphasis on equal protection and due process clause of the 14th amendment. I think it was clear when a unanimous decision in the Supreme Court in the Loving case, and it isn't often that you see an issue that has been traditionally rooted from the time of our Founders up until 1967, have a unanimous decision of the Supreme Court, even though it met that resistance at every step of the way throughout the entire appeals process until it got to the Supreme Court. 
   Today, it looks like a clear decision. It looks easy; it's simple. None of us would have any trouble with this Loving decision; but, in fact, then it was a matter of an idea whose time had finally come. 
   But the Supreme Court laid out very clear language in their decision that legislative classifications based on race  were ``odious to a free people whose institutions are founded upon the doctrine of equality,'' and further condemned Virginia's interracial marriage statute. And then the Court concluded: ``There can be no doubt that restricting the freedom to marry solely because of racial classifications violates the central meaning of the equal protection clause.'' 
   I just appreciate the privilege to emphasize those things, and then I'd like to add then some other thoughts to this record, Mr. Speaker, and that is that we rightfully celebrate the anniversary of the landmark decision here today. The institution of marriage between one man and one woman is older than the Nation itself. It predates government itself, and it also limits the power of government because traditional families are the fundamental units of our society. 
   Through them, we pour through that crucible our values from a father and a mother into the children and the values of our patriotism, our faith, our work ethic, our culture. The things we eat and the things we do, every component of our culture and civilization is concentrated through those values of those children that we have and that we're so well-blessed with; and without marriage, government would be bound to expand to take its place and would try lamely to do so. 
   But marriage embraces only one principle, and that is the marriage of a union between a man and a woman, and the further distinction of that and to have government draw a distinction between people based upon their ethnicity should be abhorrent to a free people. 
   And I stand here, Mr. Speaker, before you this afternoon, and I take this position that I believe we are all created in God's image, and what He has created, I believe it's an insult to Him if we draw distinctions between His creation. He has also seen to bless us with some specific characteristics that help us identify one another. And because He has seen to bless us with those characteristics, and in this case it was skin color, it doesn't mean it still isn't a reflection of God's image. 
   And I recall stepping into a church in Port Gibson, Mississippi, the Catholic church there that was built in 1848 by the hands of some of the family of Jim Bowie, and the priest in that church was Father Tony Pudenz, and he showed me in the church that this church that was built in 1848, the floor of the church was built for whites, the balcony was built for blacks. And just a week before that, they had buried the editor of the newspaper who had in 1967 taken his white family from the floor of the church and walked his five children and his wife up there where they sat in the balcony with the African Americans, thereby sending a statement where half of the congregation walked across the street to the Episcopal church where they go to church to this very day. But the balance of that congregation is an integrated congregation. 
   And so I would say we can't be for equality if we're not in support of intermarriage. God has created us all equally, and based upon that, I support this resolution. I think it's appropriate that we bring it today. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REMEMBERING CONGRESSMAN WILEY MAYNE -- (House of Representatives - June 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the privilege to be recognized here on the floor of the House of Representatives and to have the privilege to make some remarks tonight about the life of a former colleague for some of the Members here in Congress and one of the real stars in the Sioux City area that I have the privilege to represent today, and that is the life of former Congressman Wiley Mayne who passed away a little over a week ago at St. Luke's Hospital in Sioux City, Iowa. 
   Late Congressman Mayne represented the 6th Congressional District of Iowa for 8 years here in this Congress. That was during a time when this country experienced great turmoil. He came from Sioux City and represented much of the northwest Iowa area. He was elected to Congress in 1966 and was sworn in here on this floor in 1967 and served until the early days of 1975. 
   As you know, Mr. Speaker, the '60s and the '70s were tumultuous years for America. But despite the challenges before him, Congressman Mayne accepted an appointment to the Judiciary Committee. Serving on the Judiciary Committee, I appreciate what that means. Only a few years later, he participated in that panel's hearings on the impeachment of President Nixon. That was in the wake of the Watergate break-ins but actually before the Nation heard the tapes that confirmed what actually happened. For his service to America during this tense time, he will be long remembered; and to a significant extent it defined his political career. 
   Tonight, we are here to celebrate a man whose service and accomplishments went well beyond the work of any congressional committee. 
   Mr. Speaker, I have much to say about the gentleman whom I have had the great privilege to represent, former Congressman Wiley Mayne.     
   But I inherited that representation from the gentleman next to me, who also represented the Sioux City area for, I believe, 8 years prior to my privilege to represent them, and that's the gentleman to my left, Congressman Latham, who now represents the north central regions of Iowa, and I would at this time yield to the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. Latham). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REMEMBERING CONGRESSMAN WILEY MAYNE -- (House of Representatives - June 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. Latham) for contributing his time to this cause, and then for me it is a privilege, also. 
   I wonder, if Wiley were here today, what he would say about Tom Latham actually being the first Republican Congressman to represent Sioux City who had not been educated at Harvard since 1966. I would imagine he would have a couple remarks to make about that had he given it any thought. I'm going to be interested to hear what the family might have to say about that as well. 
   It is one of the things that is the distinction as the second Republican who isn't Harvard-educated, but there has been a certain trend that's there. And I think one of the consistent themes that you hear and one of those certainly that I reflect in my experience in time with Congressman Wiley Mayne was the fact that he was a consummate gentleman, and I can see him sitting there at those events with that smile on his face. He enjoyed sometimes just watching, listening to speakers, watching people, meeting people, being part of it, didn't have to be in the center of the action, but enjoyed being where there was activity and people. And there was a certain glow about him, and the consummate gentleman portion of that was a portion that I always recall. 
   And my last memories are sitting in his conference room there in the attorney's office with his son, John, and talking politics, talking current events, talking all kinds of things but never with a sense of what was high stress or high intensity. If my approach to things gets to be a little bit herky jerky, his was always smooth and well-thought out, with a course in mind. 
   And one of the comments that I've heard that's consistently come up has been, if you find yourself on opposite sides with Wiley Mayne, you still end up being his friend in the end, and that's an Iowa characteristic perhaps. I'd like to think it is, but it's a characteristic that certainly Congressman Wiley Mayne carried with him throughout his life and his service here. 
   I've had a number of Members come to me today that have served with Wiley in this Congress, and some have asked the opportunity to revise and extend their remarks, and we'll see more of this Congressional Record unfold as we commemorate the life of Congressman Wiley Mayne. 
   And so what I would like to do, if the gentleman is ready, is simply be in a position to wrap up my thoughts at the conclusion of this period of time. In order to do that, I'd be very happy to yield to the other gentleman from Iowa (Mr. Braley), who is more of a new arrival here to this Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REMEMBERING CONGRESSMAN WILEY MAYNE -- (House of Representatives - June 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Well, I thank Mr. Braley, and in reclaiming my time, I appreciate you coming to the floor tonight to enter your remarks into this Record and to voice your sentiments about Wiley Mayne. I didn't realize that you had a relationship that had connected across the State over to Sioux City and with John and with Wiley. 
   And I'm always pleased to find out that sometimes we think that it's a small world, but in fact, I think it's a big neighborhood. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REMEMBERING CONGRESSMAN WILEY MAYNE -- (House of Representatives - June 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank very much Mr. Braley, and I'd like to reflect upon some of the things that have been written and said about Wiley Mayne, former Congressman, and most recently passed away Congressman Wiley Mayne. These are just some blogs that were posted in the paper. 
   And I would reflect that, when you've been out of public life since the first days of 1975, and 33 years pretty much, that's a lot of time that's passed. And it's more than just a generation, and it approaches a second generation. And many of the people that live in the Sioux City area were not there and maybe were not born yet when Wiley Mayne was our Congressman. 
   I remember those days, though, when he was, and I remember his image he had in our household. And we spoke reverently of Wiley Mayne for the positions of character that he took, and we watched him go through the agonizing period of time during the Watergate break-ins and the period of time that was very tumultuous.     
   We were in the middle of Vietnam War. We had the Watergate break-in. It's interesting that Marilyn and I were married on the same day of the Watergate break-ins, as was Governor Branstad on June 17, 1972. That's how we remember that. 
   Wiley Mayne was my Congressman then. We had great reverence for him and great respect for his integrity. But the reflection back on that, that many years, to inspire someone to go to the keyboard and type some words in to post on a blog that may not be read, but they will be, because I think it's important for me to put this into the Record. 
   Here is one from Mr. Joel Greer, and it's published May 29. ``Wiley Mayne is one of the last of the fine, older generation of gentleman lawyers that have made Iowa a good place to practice law. By the end of the case he had against me, we were friends. I loved travelling to depositions with him because he had so much worldly experience but was so humble. He gave good counsel to clients. He comported himself well as our Congressman. He was the consummate volunteer as President of the State Bar Association. I am pleased to have known him, and I thank his family for sharing him.'' 
   I second those sentiments. 
   From Mr. Ronald Scott, same day. ``It was a pleasure to have met Congressman Mayne. He was a friend of my father, Harold Scott; and I met the Congressman when I had my first trip to Washington, D.C., in 1968. I deeply appreciated the time Congressman Mayne spent with our family. I remember him as a true gentleman and an excellent representative.'' 
   Think of that, from 1968 until a little over a week ago, to have made that kind of an impression on a visit here, that that would cause Ronald Scott to go to the keyboard and put those words in on the passing of Congressman Wiley Mayne. 
   Here is a gentleman I do know, Mr. Keith Uhl, who happens to be an attorney. ``As a member of Ben Reifel's (R-SD) staff in Washington D.C., '68-'72 we worked closely Congressman Mayne in Iowa and South Dakota. Wiley was always pleasant, cooperative and effective. His spirit continues thru his efforts for many. As growing up in Mapleton, Iowa, then the western Iowa communities appreciated his fine representation. God Bless. Keith Uhl, Des Moines & Mapleton, Iowa.'' 
   Those are some of the sentiments that have come out about Wiley Mayne. I have a series of things that have been repeated by Members who have come here to speak about Congressman Wiley Mayne. 
   But as I look across his record, I can't help but reflect that his expertise went beyond being a congressman, of course. He went on to also being President of the Iowa State Bar Association, where he served with distinction; and he was also a trumpet player in college. I noticed in one with of the obituaries that I read that not only was he successful there, but he was also successful in debate, which would be a natural thing. 
   I would have liked to have had the opportunity to have debated with him on opposite sides to see how he actually comported himself when I get a little wound up. I expect that he would have still applied his gentle nature and his keen intellect and his insightfulness to probably calm me down a little bit, and I would not have wanted to be in a position where I hoped to prevail in that particular debate. 
   But his roots going back into Sanborn, Iowa, where he was born and raised and graduated from high school there in 1934. He actually won the Iowa State oratory and the trumpet competitions as a senior in high school. He went on then to Harvard, and he became chairman of the Kirkland House, and he was order of his class there in 1938. That's some pretty tough competition, I would say. 
   Just 3 years later, he graduated from the Iowa law school and received one of the highest bar exam scores in the 1941 Iowa bar exam test. Now we can look back on his life and see a great leap in maturity for a young man, even as well educated as Wiley Mayne. 
   In fact, we can look back and see his life shifted greatly to a life-long commitment to public service, especially at the tumultuous times that I mentioned earlier. But from 1941 until 1943, Congressman Mayne was a Special Agent with the FBI, assigned here in Washington D.C., also Los Angeles and San Francisco. 
   Then he heard the call to serve our Nation's military; and during the thick of the fighting during World War II, he entered into the U.S. Naval Reserve as a lieutenant with the Judge Advocate General in the Navy. From 1943 to 1946, he served aboard a destroyer escort, the USS Stockdale, in the north Atlantic, which was a difficult place, but also the Mediterranean and the Pacific, another difficult place to be. 
   Upon returning to the States, he began practicing law in Sioux City; and from 1946 until 1964 he practiced law in Sioux City during some of that time. And 1963 was 
   the year that he served as President of the Iowa State Bar Association and then also as a member of the House of Delegates of the American Bar Association from 1966 until 1968. 
   He was also chairman of the Grievance Commission of the Iowa Supreme Court and Commissioner of Uniform State Laws. He has a long history in working to help support our laws and our community. 
   But, again, at a time of turmoil, Congressman Mayne was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1966 to represent northwest Iowa. There he served for 8 years as Congressman of Iowa's 6th Congressional District. 
   But as a member of the Judiciary, and we haven't mentioned yet the Agriculture Committee, and it's interesting that I have the privilege to serve on both the Judiciary Committee and on the House Agriculture Committee. To some degree, I have the duty and the responsibility, however heavy and difficult the load, of carrying on some of Congressman Mayne's legacy in both of those locations. 
   It has been inspiring to me to be able to serve on the Judiciary and on the Agriculture Committee. It's odd that a nonlawyer like myself could serve on the Judiciary Committee, but it's also not odd at all that a lawyer from Sioux City would serve western Iowa, northwest Iowa, in the United States Congress and serve on the House Agriculture Committee, because, of course, of Iowa being one of the leading agriculture States.  
   We grew up with agriculture all around us. It doesn't matter whether you are a lawyer or a pastor or a bulldozer operator, you are going to know something about agriculture. You cannot escape it if you grow up in the State of Iowa, especially if you are born and raised in Sanborn, Iowa. But I have the great privilege of serving on the two committees that Wiley Mayne served on. 
   But he also served as a delegate to the Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome in 1973, and it was during Congressman Mayne's final term in the Judiciary Committee in which he served where they investigated a break-in at the office of the Democratic National Committee at the Watergate Hotel. He was one of 10 Republicans that served on the Judiciary Committee that voted not to impeach President Nixon. 
   But shortly after that the Watergate tapes were revealed. Congressman Mayne stated that, as that evidence came out, he didn't have enough evidence at the time that he voted to vote for impeachment of President Nixon, but after the tapes came out, it became, the preponderance of evidence, that Mr. Mayne announced he would have voted differently if that information had been available to him at the time. 
   That's an intellectually honest way for one to conduct themselves in this Congress. The integrity that he held through that is part of the legacy that's here and part of our obligation to uphold. I don't believe that history has judged him as well as he deserves on that issue, and he was straight up all the time in our family and household as we discussed this issue. We judged him as a man of character, a man who called them as he saw them, a man who felt the obligations to serve his country and did so and gave us a straight answer each and every time. 
   But the hindsight was superior to the foresight, and that will always be the case in the real world. But sometimes history is not forgiving; and I think, though, that the legacy that Wiley Mayne has left here has overcome any of those senses, because we know he did what he believed was right at a time that what did he know and when did he know it might be the question he would pose if he were here today to ask it. I think he acted appropriately and honorably on the information he knew when he knew it. The record will show that. History should judge that, and we need to honor his effort in that fashion. 
   In recapping this, I want to express my sense of sympathy to the family of Congressman Wiley Mayne, to his two sons and daughter and their children, the grandchildren that are part also of his legacy. I want to express that sympathy and that appreciation for having known him and having the privilege to have been able to call him a friend and a supporter and an adviser. But I think I am more the beneficiary of having been his constituent than I was of any other component. 
   He served me as one of his constituents and a resident in northwest Iowa during those years, and he inspired my family and the people around me. He helped lead us through some very difficult times. He was a steady hand at the throttle when we needed a steady hand. 
   When the time came for him to leave this Congress, he left this Congress graciously, gracefully, with honor and dignity and integrity. He left a legacy of those adjectives, and his family remembers it well. 
   The Siouxland area remembers him well. We can't say enough good about a man who made this kind of contribution and had an extraordinarily good life, a long life, for the most part a healthy life with a good family and good friends. 
   He very much enjoyed his time here in this Congress and his time as a retired Member of Congress, but a very active member of the Siouxland community who will long remember Wiley Mayne. We will regret losing him, but celebrate his life and extend our sympathies to his family. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I thank Mr. Campbell for yielding to me, and I appreciate Mr. Ryan sticking around after the Special Order and the work that you have done. Over the last 2-plus years, we spent a lot of hours here on the floor together. It occurred to me as I arrived on the floor-- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I would concede that point that not necessarily together, but on the floor. We have been together in some other things as well. 
   But the point that occurred to me as I arrived here on the floor this afternoon is we often do not commingle our policies. We have an argument that is set separate on this side and on that side, and it occurred to me that Lincoln and Douglas had some effective debates that were very, very instructive, and it helped the people understand the distinctions between the policies. 
   So as I mull this around in my mind, it occurs to me to offer an invitation that if our side could set aside an hour Special Order, and if your side would be interested in setting aside an hour Special Order, we could merge those together and then perhaps three from your side, three from our side, and we could spend 2 hours with an open debate type of a format so that we could have a free exchange with the best of attitude and comity. I think that would be a very good thing to do for the people across this country as they review what is going on here on the floor. 
   I would ask your opinion on that.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time. If the gentleman would be interested, I would suggest you take it up above that pay grade and see if you come back with a positive response. I didn't check with anybody above me. I happened to be able to claim some time on the floor and make that decision. 
   I offer that openly with the best intentions. I think 2 hours would be a very good thing for all of us to have that discussion. The offer is there. I leave it on the table, and I thank the gentleman. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time, I would point out that, as we have had exchanges here during special orders, I am one who has yielded, especially to Uncle BILL from Massachusetts. I would point that out. That is a matter of record. We can continue in that vein, I would hope. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from California for yielding to me both times here this afternoon. 
   Mr. Speaker, taking up the issue of the budget that is coming before us and this sense of responsibility and debates that I have had this year and debates that I recall I had in the national media that I had with members of the other party, and some of them took the oath that they would be willing to support a balanced budget without raising taxes; I don't hear any of that talk here on the Democrat side of the aisle. Nobody is stepping forward, and saying, yes, I remember what I said, I didn't mean it, or even, I remember what I said. They seem to have forgotten what they said. 
   They do say they want to balance the budget. But we also know from listening to Mr. Rangel, there isn't any one of the Bush tax cuts that he would not want to eliminate, which would result in a tax increase. 
   Yet we have the strongest economy that we have had in my lifetime, the most consecutive quarters of growth. We have a very healthy unemployment rating of about 4.5 percent, and that has been staying low. Inflation has been staying low. Interest has been staying low. Every economic indicator that is low when it is good is low. Every economic indicator that is high when it is good, it is high. The stock market has reached any number of all-time highs. 
   These Bush tax cuts, the 2001 cuts and the 2003 cuts were essential and necessary to keep us out of a depression and a recession at a time when the dot.com bubble had burst, when our financial centers were attacked on September 11, and we had to go to war and spend hundreds of billions of dollars to protect the American people, of which there has been no significant attack against Americans by terrorists in our country since that time. 
   Who would believe that our economy would be this strong, our safety would be this good, that there are so many things sitting where they are today? But we need to step forward and make progress. I can tell you frankly that I was not thrilled by the proposal here several years ago, 3 years ago, that we were going to cut the deficit in half in 5 years. That was not enough for me. 
   Now, I believe that President Bush has offered a budget, and I think that we will see the House Republicans offer a budget that will reach balance within 5 years. That is a balance without dynamic scoring, and the increase that we are seeing in the revenue because of this dynamic economy indicates that could well happen within the next 3 years. I expect it will happen in the next 3 years. 
   I am an individual, though, who would be willing to sign on to a budget  that would balance the budget this year. I will not go very far into that for these purposes, because I recognize, practically speaking, there aren't enough votes to pass a budget like that. It would be a bit too Draconian. 
   But had we have been able to slow some of this growth, we could be at balance today, except that we have been facing the war, and we took the hit from the burst in the dot.com bubble. So we are pulled together here now, and the principle needs to be, slow this growth in discretionary, nondefense discretionary spending. We are doing that, and we have effectively done that. We have kept it at below the rate of inflation or at the rate of inflation. 
   The biggest problem we have is the constant growth in entitlements called Medicare, Social Security, Medicaid to a lesser degree, and, of course, the interest that goes up on that. You will see a budget comes from Republicans that gets us to a balanced budget within 5 years. I am grateful that that is coming out. 
   But, again, I believe that if we can give the investors the confidence that we can continue the Bush tax cuts, the 2001 and the 2003 tax cuts, then I think that you will see this economy continue to grow, and you will see the budget balanced before the 5 years are up. 
   But if we turn this over to the other side, if we turn it over to the Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, who wants to see the end of all of those tax cuts, we will see the goose that lays the golden egg slaughtered and on the field of class warfare. 
   Now, we know that what you tax you get less of. The Federal Government has the first lien on all taxation in America. We tax everything that moves, that produces. We tax labor. We tax interest, investment, dividends capital gains, you name it, all the way down the line. Then the alternative minimum tax sits there and sneaks up on people and grabs people, and it is creeping down into the lower brackets over and over again. 
   So to make this call, I would say this, extend those tax cuts. The American people need to clamor in order to extend the Bush tax cuts. If that can happen, the confidence in this economy will continue. We will get this budget balanced. 
   The other side wants a balanced budget, too, because they called for one. But they want to raise your taxes to do it. I guarantee you, that is the only way that they can balance this budget, and that is the effort that they are down on. I stand with the remarks made by the gentleman from California, and I appreciate very much him taking the leadership to come to the floor and yielding to me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. It is interesting to me, the statistics that you put out on that data, that if you believe in a free market economy, you understand that description intuitively. You understand there is going to be dynamic growth that is stimulated because there is a return on investment. 
   If you don't believe in the free market economy, then you think somehow that people that make money and create jobs are evil, and they should be punished for their productivity. When you punish productivity and tax it, you get less of it. That was another Reagan statement. What you tax you get less of. What you subsidize you get more of. 
   We are going to see productivity more highly taxed. We get less productivity, and this economy will slow down.     
   I point also that if we could freeze our spending at current levels, sometime in the middle of fiscal year 2010 we would be looking at a surplus. That is something else to consider. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ISSUES AFFECTING AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - January 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to be recognized to address you here on the floor of the United States Congress, as always, and I appreciate this privilege. There are a series of subjects that come to mind that I think it is important for you to consider and for the Members and for those onlookers that are here to consider as well. 
   One of those issues has been front and center in my mind and in my legislative career as we watch these presidential debates that go on on both sides of the aisle, from the Democrat and the Republican side, and as we watch the caucus and primary season flow across the country, and as America waits with bated breath to see how this emerges, as far as who will be the nominees on either side for the Democrats and the Republicans. 
   A series of issues that come to mind that stand out to me that I would ask you, Mr. Speaker, to consider as you and as others take a look at where they might come down on their particular choice of nominees and the things that are important here in the United States of America, and I would submit this approach, and that is that there are a whole series of issues that are important to us and we talk about them and we debate them constantly. But we often overlook the necessity to prioritize those issues. 
   I will say there are roughly about 10 big issues out there that get discussed on the parts of Republicans and Democrats as we turn the focus of America towards who will be the next leader of the free world, the next commander-in-chief of the strongest nation in the world, the unchallenged superpower in the world. 
   Those issues include items such as Social Security reform and health care reform and tax reform, fiscal responsibility. The social programs, education for example, would be another one. How strong should our military be? How do we fight our enemies globally. How to do we get to the point where we can declare one day in this global war on terror against Islamic jihadists? And how do we secure our borders and how do we reestablish the, I will call it the sanctity of this Nation, the sovereignty of America? How do we reestablish that? How do we reestablish the rule of law in this country when we have watched the rule of law and the enforcement of our laws decline over the last 20 years, a little bit more than 20 years, I will say since the 1986 amnesty bill that Ronald Reagan signed and defined as amnesty? 
   What about the appointments that will be made to the Supreme Court but by the next president of the United States? As most of the pundits have analyzed, it looks like it will be perhaps two appointments to the Supreme Court that will come up in the next term. Those two appointments that are anticipated will change the balance in the court and perhaps have more impact on the destiny of America, and I will say will be the legacy of the next President. There will be big questions such as will Rowe versus Wade be overturned? Will the States be then in a position where they can determine their policy on protecting innocent, unborn human life? 
   The issue of marriage is coming forward here in this Nation. It is under assault across this country. It happens to be a bellwether issue within the State of Iowa. Judge Robert Hansen overturned Iowa's Defense of Marriage Act. In that decision, he just unilaterally erased the will of the Iowa people and replaced it with his own. That case is going before the Supreme Court. That will be determined. 
   If the decision of Judge Hansen is upheld, Iowa then becomes the Mecca for same-sex marriage, because there is not a residency requirement, which means then that weekend packages from Las Vegas or San Francisco traveling to Iowa for same sex couples to get married, and then they will go back to their home States to file suit. 
   These are big issues, Mr. Speaker, the issue of innocent human life, the issue of marriage, the institution, which goes all the way back to the Garden of Eden, and it is transcended and that sacrament of marriage has been preserved since before original sin and it survived the great flood, but it is under assault now from judicial activists. Those, life and marriage, will likely be determined by the next two appointments to the Supreme Court. 
   And will we have a President that understands that the Constitution means what it says and it means what it was understood to mean, the text of the Constitution means what it was understood to mean when it was ratified by our forebearers, and that each amendment means what it was understood to mean when it was ratified? It is not a living, breathing document, not a changing document, but a document that is a guarantee to the people here in the United States. The next President will make those decisions. 
   Of all the issues that I have laid out here, including our border security and our national security, which many times are wrapped up into one, and the refurbishment of the rule of law, which I believe is the central pillar of American exceptionalism, all of that is up for grabs in the presidential race that is being played out across America State By State. The world watches. The world watches because it affects them, because we will be electing the next leader in the free world. 
   Of all of these issues that I have laid out, Mr. Speaker, I would ask you to put those issues down into two different columns. I would label those two columns. On the one side I would label it the column called quality of life issues. 
   The quality of life issues are those issues that probably don't turn the destiny of America. They will change our quality of life and raise our standard of living perhaps and give us a little better security, but if we get them wrong, we can go back and try them again. 
   One of those issues that I would put in the quality of life side of thing would be the health care issue. That is about all they talk about over on the other side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, except for change, change, change, change, and that may be what is in your pocket, Mr. Speaker. But when you don't say what you would change to, you are just going to change from what we are to something else under the presumption that doing something different, even if it is wrong, is better than what we are doing now, isn't good enough for the American people. 
   The American people are going to want to know what you would change from and what you would change to, what you would make different and why and what is the rationale. That will be a requirement moving into the general election. It may not be a requirement in the primary election, that change. 
   But the issues in the two categories, the one category which is quality of life issues, and I put health care in there. We can do some things with health care, and I think we should. And if we get some of those wrong, we can back up and we can try again and try to get it right. In fact, we have been doing that for some time, and I expect we will do that for some time. Health care belongs in the quality of life side, not in the destiny side, because it probably doesn't change the destiny of America, but it something that has to do with our quality of life. It is important.  
   It is important like Social Security reform is also important, Mr. Speaker. And we are here now with a bankrupt Social Security program. It has been a couple of years since I have checked the numbers, but the Social Security trust fund, the last time I checked it was $1.74 trillion. That is how much money this Congress owes the trust fund. 
   The trust fund is in little bonds in Parkersburg, West Virginia, in filing cabinets. I have a copy of one. It says $3.54 billion on this little piece of paper. It is an IOU from the government written to the government. But we haven't prepared to pay the Social Security liability that accrues starting as we go into the red, the deficit spending in 2016 or 2017, and then by 2042, all of the surplus is spent and now we are digging ourselves an even deeper hole. 
   But it happens to us in 2016 and 2017, because already the Social Security trust fund couldn't be trusted. That money has all been spent, and we have simply written ourselves an IOU and we have decided to take the paper out of this pocket, write ourselves an IOU of $1.74 trillion and take it and put it over in this pocket, because there is nothing in this trust fund. 
   It is important that we address the reform of Social Security, but if we don't do it this year or next year or 4 years from now, it gets harder and harder, but it probably doesn't change the destiny of America. So I put that over also in the quality of life side along with health care. 
   Then we come to tax reform. I am listening as my colleagues debate this around in committee and on the floor, Mr. Speaker, about what we will do about this impending recession. Well, the first question is, are we in a recession? And I can't quite hear somebody say yes, we are. 
   Most of the time we don't know we are in one until we look back and realize that we were, Mr. Speaker. So I am not going to submit that we are in a recession today. I would submit though that we are constantly on our way into one. We are either on our way to a boom or on our way to a bust or some minimized version of either. 
   So, yes, we are likely, since we have had this long, long period of unprecedented growth here in America, chances are we are going to have to make some corrections. And this economy is not an economy, and no free market economy has ever been, the kind where you just simply said we are going to grow this economy out, let's just say 3.5 percent a year, and we will lay the ruler on the graph, lift it up to a 3.5 percent growth and strike ourselves a line out there and say we are going to be on target every single day. It doesn't work that way, Mr. Speaker. 
   The way it works is that you have little periods of growth and little periods of decline, and as the graph ratchets its way up, if you look at it in more of an illuminated perspective, it looks more like a sawtooth, where it goes up and down and up and down. But all the while while that is happening, our gross domestic product is increasing, people are earning more money, our capital base is growing, and this economy that now sits here, as it has in the past year, the dollar went out past historical limits a whole series of numbers of times, it has grown exponentially from where it was 20 years ago. We have that much more assets to work with, an economy that is growing. 
   But if this category of our economic growth and our tax reform, if we get it wrong, we can back up and try again. We have been backing up and trying it again for over 200 years here in America. 
   So I will submit that tax reform also belongs over here in the category of quality of life issues, issues that are important to us, issues that have to do with whether we will be in a boom or whether we will be in a decline, and how much prosperity might be there and how we provide a tax program that takes the burden off of sectors of the economy so that they can earn, save and invest and expect a return off their investment. But I don't think the tax reform issue is a destiny issue. I think it is a quality of life issue. 
   While I am on that subject, Mr. Speaker, I want to address this issue that is before this Congress about whether there is going to be some kind of a check, a payout to everybody to stimulate the economy. Will we send somebody a rebate on their taxes and give everybody $200 of walking around money so they can go out in the streets and buy some Gucci bags and go to the massage parlor, like what happened with some checks that went to the southern part of the United States not that long ago? Is that a way to get us out of that economy? 
   When I think about that, I back up to 1992, Mr. Speaker, when Bill Clinton was elected President. He came into this city, was inaugurated in January of 1993, and immediately he said to this Congress, I need a $30 billion economic incentive plan, because the recession that had been kind of illustrated and probably was part of the imagination of the political campaign, I will argue it didn't really exist, but in order to get rid of it, he had to have this creation of this recession, President Clinton needed an economic incentive plan. 
   So he asked this Congress to appropriate $30 billion to go into make-work projects, make-work projects that we might see today as AmeriCorps. In fact, I think it actually came out of that inspiration. But the idea was to borrow $30 billion and put it into the hands of Americans and have that money be spent out into the streets of America, and then now this recession that he thought we were in would be solved because money would be spent into the economy and stimulate the economy. 
   Well, the $30 billion economic incentive package that was requested by President Clinton in the first month of his first term in office in 1993, was debated in this Congress from $30 billion down to $17 billion, and finally they concluded that $17 billion wasn't enough to make any kind of a difference and they just kind of dropped it. 
   Well, now we are up to about, one request I have heard was $300 billion to put into the hands of people, borrowed money so it could be spent to stimulate the economy. Other arguments are that we should cut corporate income tax and capital gains and a few other things, and I do support those changes. 
   But what needs to happen, Mr. Speaker, is the Bush tax cuts need it to be made permanent. The two tax cuts in 2001 and 2003 saved us from I believe a severe recession and perhaps a depression because there was enough vision in the eyes and in the mind of President Bush that we were under assault from a lot of ways. One was al Qaeda. The financial center had been attacked, and the things that had been designed to drive us down needed to be stimulated back the other way. 
   So we did those tax cuts in 2001. We did them in 2003. And this economy has boomed. Sometime last April, this government collected more money in a single day than had ever been collected before, stimulated by tax cuts.     
   And today we are hanging in the balance. The whole series of tax cuts winds down in 2010 and disappear and expire because they were set up to sunset, and politically that was the way that they were sold. And, of course, if those tax cuts sunset, they become tax increases; and those tax increases will be tax increases on capital gains, there will be a personal and corporate income tax. There will be tax increases on the estate tax, the death tax. And all of those things are in the way they prevent people from planning, they take away their confidence in this economy. And when you take away confidence in an economy, the result is people don't invest, they don't expand, they don't create jobs. And if you are not creating jobs and if you are not able to increase wages and benefits, then the money that is in people's pockets diminishes and they spend less money and this economy collapses eventually. 
   Extending the Bush tax cuts and making them permanent would be the single most effective thing we could do to cause this economy to turn around the other way and head back up again for another long period of economic growth. The single most important thing this Congress has a chance to do, and I believe that as history looks back on this time they will say, you had your chance, this was it. And I submit, Mr. Speaker, we should take that chance. 
   But back to this subject at hand of these quality of life issues. Tax reform is quality of life, because the dynamics in the economy are tied to it. Health  care is quality of life, because the very care that we get that gives us this robust health that we have enjoyed comes from the policies we put in place there and the incentives we put in place, and a lot of it is getting the regulations out of the way. And reforming Social Security is another quality of life issue. Those issues over on that side, quality of life, let's weigh them for the importance that they are. 
   But the decision that we are making in this Presidential race isn't a decision necessarily about what the quality of life will be for the Americans that live in the next 4 years, the first 4 years of the next term, or the next 8 years for that matter. This decision is far more important than our quality of life that will take place between 2009 and perhaps as late as 2017. 
   No, Mr. Speaker, the decision the American people need to make is a destiny decision. We need to be making a decision in this country about who will be the best leader in the free world that moves us forward, that lays the foundation down on the tracks so that the next generations will have that foundation to build on so that they can achieve the American Dream and they can aspire to leaving the world a better place than it was when they came, as we have had that responsibility handed to us from our fathers and our forefathers. 
   But I want to make an argument here, Mr. Speaker, about how important this is, in a sense of this country that we are that is America. 
   First of all, the Founders came here to the United States of America and they had a vision. That vision first was that our rights come from God. They don't come from humanity. They are not endowed upon us by a king or a foreign prince and potentate. They are not endowed upon us by a dictator. Our rights come directly from God. And they come directly to the people. And then the people hand that responsibility over to government to govern them, but always under the will of the people and always with the rights that are guaranteed to the people. And if this foundation of this great Nation, those values that we hold dear are diminished, if they are eroded, if we don't build upon that foundation, the next generation doesn't have a good foundation to build upon. 
   The culture that is created from the Constitution and from our religious values and our values of family and faith and freedom and free market economy and property rights, if this culture that is the culture of the United States of America that has within it the vitality of millions of immigrants that came here legally, that have injected their vitality into this overall American culture with an appreciation for the host country that is here and an obligation that they happily provide, which is to give back to this country, the country that so gladly welcomed them. 
   This vitality that is this Nation, this vitality of this culture is what raises up the leaders of today. And the culture of a generation ago was the culture that raised up the leaders of a generation ago, and so on, and so it goes as you look back through the history of America all the way back to before the Revolutionary War. So each generation is built upon the previous generation, and the leaders of each generation are produced and raised up by the culture, by the values of the current time. 
   And today, the values of the United States of America in their aggregate raise up the leaders that come in here to serve in this United States Congress. The culture of every 435 districts produces the leader that represents each of the 435 districts; and the cultures in the States produces the Senators, two for each of the 50 States that go to serve in the United States Senate. And the values of the congressional districts and the values of the States are the values that, at least presumably, are embodied within the people who are elected to come and serve in this United States Congress, Mr. Speaker. 
   The culture raises up the leaders, and the leaders reflect the values of their time and their place. And then the decisions that are made by the leaders, and I will take this to the decisions made by the President of the United States, lay the foundation and alter the culture and shift the values and set the principles that shift the culture for the next generation. And if we shift this culture now, the next generation will react to it, will reflect the new values of the new culture that has been changed by the decisions made by the leaders today. 
   That is why it is so important that we turn our focus to the destiny issues and begin to ask the question, who will best lead this country? Who will best lay the foundation for the decisions that will be made that will affect the formation and the shaping of the values of America which are our culture? Who will make those decisions? 
   And as I look forward into this, I will argue that those are the destiny decisions, Mr. Speaker, those issues that change the destiny of America. And when the destiny of America is changed, it shifts the culture, and the foundation of the culture will be the foundation that our entire culture grows from, that young people learn about. 
   Now, this menu of life that I had when I was a young boy in the early 1950s in Iowa, Mr. Speaker, was not quite such a varied menu of life as our young people growing up in America have today. I had a very, very bright black and white list on what was right and what was wrong, and what I could do and what I couldn't do. And it covered a whole gamut of things between telling the truth and working industriously and helping my fellow man and having a strong, faithful Christian background, and having a duty to my father and my mother and later on my wife and my children, and knowing that I needed to teach them in these same values so that they would go out and go to work every day and they would carry the values of our faith and our family and our freedom. 
   A lot more freedom has been injected into this society, a lot of it through the 1960s, and not just sexual freedom but freedom that has to do with illegal drugs and freedom for a lifestyle that is far more permissive than the lifestyle that was permitted in the environment that I grew up in, Mr. Speaker. Those are cultural changes. Our music reflects it, our literature reflects it, our movies reflect it, and our television reflect the shifts and the differences in our culture, and they reflect the differences in our values. 
   For example, could one imagine that there would be sitcoms and serial programs on TV that have to do with same-sex marriage or same-sex relationships even 10 years ago, let alone 20, 30, 40, 50 years ago. And I would say maybe 10 years ago, not much earlier than that could one have conceived of such a thing. That is how far this society has been moved quickly, much of it by the courts, much of it by the liberal media in the movie industry and the television entertainment industry. But the permissiveness is different than the society that I grew up in, and our values have changed. 
   Now, I am not one of the people who sits over on that side of the aisle and believe that change itself is a goal. I am one who thinks that we should be rooted in our values; we should identify the central pillar and all of the other pieces of the foundation of American exceptionalism, and we should refurbish those pillars of American exceptionalism and we should diminish those things that undermine those pillars of exceptionalism. But the permissiveness that has grown has changed our culture. And because of that, it is reflected here on the floor of Congress, and in such a way that I can go to St. Peter's Square and go to communion with more than one Member of Congress, and then next week come back here and on the floor hear one of those Members of Congress who walked to communion with the new Pope Benedict XVI, a very pro-life faith that we have, and have that Member that went to communion come to the floor and argue that there should be a constitutional right to partial-birth abortion. What a twist and a shape in our civilization and our society. 
   What that says about the foundation of our culture, that is something that has got to be shifted back, Mr. Speaker. It has got to be shifted back, and it needs to be changed at the Supreme Court level and all the Federal courts all the way down. 
   When we have law schools in America that teach the Constitution from case law and not from the text of the Constitution; if they presume that the students that come 
   there read the Constitution and understand it, I don't know where they think they got the education. But when they teach that  the case law controls and the text of the Constitution does not control, that is something that has got to have a dramatic shift if we are to have any guarantee. And when I realized that, and I know that we have three or four members, maybe even more, of the Supreme Court that think that the Constitution is this living, breathing document that is there for them to manipulate at their will, and when I think of the prospect of one or two or more justices in the Supreme Court potentially being nominated by a liberal President and confirmed by a United States Senate that believe that the Constitution can mean what a judge wants it to mean, especially if it is an activist decision because of a judge that might conclude a result rather than the text, I think that is wrong, Mr. Speaker, and I think it puts our constitutional guarantees at risk. 
   We have an issue before the Supreme Court that was just heard the other day on the second amendment, and there was an amicus brief that was offered apparently before the Court and by the White House that the second amendment is an individual constitutional right, but it could be regulated by political subdivisions, by cities or counties or States. And I could argue that if you are going to guarantee my second amendment rights but tell political subdivisions that they don't have to respect that constitutional right, that it is no right at all. And we need judges that understand that. We need appointments to the Supreme Court that understand that this Constitution means what it says, and we need Federal judges appointed all the way down the line with that philosophy. 
   I dream of the day that, for example, when Justice Roberts went before the United States Senate and he spoke about his beliefs in the Constitution and his understanding of case law, he went through that confirmation. And when he handled that in an exceptional fashion, it was extraordinarily impressive and absolutely worthy of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. I thought I detected a tone that was more constitutional in Justice Alito's confirmation hearings, when I recall him speaking more openly about the Constitution meaning what it says, and having less deference to case law and more deference to the text of this Constitution. And I dream of the day that, in order to get confirmed to the Supreme Court or perhaps confirmed at any Federal court level, Mr. Speaker, that an appointee would have to profess belief and conviction in the text of the Constitution rather than the deference to case law that may have been manipulated by liberal judges that have come before them. 
   Those appointments to the Supreme Court, if we are successful in confirming those judges that believe the Constitution means what it says and that it is not a living, breathing document, if we get appointments and confirmation of those kind of judges, at some point the law schools will have to start teaching the Constitution for what it says, not for what some piece of case law might say about that Constitution. And I think we should be able to drill back to the Constitution and always anchor it in the text of the Constitution. If we get appointments to the Supreme Court that do so, we can transform the guarantees that we have, and we can change the dynamics within all the law schools in America, and we can change the understanding here in the House of Representatives, and we can change the understanding of the Constitution in the United States Senate, and we can go back to those fundamental guarantees. Because after all, Mr. Speaker, if the Constitution doesn't mean what it says it means, if it is there, something that only a judge can determine is in the emanations and the penumbras of the Constitution itself, if that is all it is, then what guarantees do we have at all? Is the Constitution then some archaic document? Or is it a tool to be deployed by activist judges only for them to decide when they will amend the Constitution? Or is it a guarantee to the people of the United States as it was designed to be? 
   I would submit that if the Constitution were offered to the American people to be ratified with a little caveat there that, well, the judges will be able to rewrite or define it whenever they see fit, it would have never been ratified by the several States and would not be the document that has held together this free country that we are.     
   Destiny issues, Mr. Speaker. The appointments to the Supreme Court, the next one or two or perhaps more appointments to the Supreme Court, will redirect the destiny of America. 
   We either go into the abyss of judicial activism, the judicial activism that found a right to privacy that didn't exist, a right to abortion that didn't exist, and a Roe v. Wade decision that was poorly reasoned and an unjust mandate on the American people that has taken us down this path where next week will mark the 35th year of Roe v. Wade. We have already marked the 50 millionth innocent little unborn baby that has been aborted and not given a chance at life. 
   The solutions to our problems are in the generations that will come after us, and 50 million have been denied this opportunity to breathe this free air in America, creating a sin against this Nation and a hole in our heart and a vacuum that is filled by tens of millions of illegal immigrants that have come across our border. And we can't talk about that openly, Mr. Speaker, because it becomes a reactionary thing. 
   But we should put the whole formula together. The quality of life issues pale in comparison to the destiny issues, and the destiny of America is wrapped up in Roe v. Wade. Next week when we mark that 35th year, 50 million babies aborted before they had an opportunity to breathe free air and contribute to this society and have been denied the right to life. 
   Marriage is being attacked from all sides, mostly within the courts because they understand that they cannot win these cases to the legislatures across America, and they can't take their case to the United States Congress. 
   But it changes the destiny of a country if you destroy marriage. Some will say why am I worried about two people of the same sex getting married and moving next door to me; it doesn't affect my life. It may not affect my life if that were my neighborhood either. And I don't know that I would take a personal objection to that. 
   But I would ask, Mr. Speaker, that people step back and take a broader look and think about how the culture gets shifted and changed, and think about the menu of life that little kids would have in a society where we would see a court impose same-sex marriage on America. If you can make the argument in court that two men ought to be able to get married and access all the benefits that are saved right now, preserved, protected and promoted for a man and woman joined together in holy matrimony because the State has an interest in promoting marriage because that is a crucible through which we pour all of our values. But if we open that up to a man and a man or a woman and a woman, what standard do we draw the line upon next? What standard do we say it can't be two men and a woman or two women and a man, or three women, or a brother and a sister and a mother? Where do we draw the line? 
   I recall some testimony before a hearing in the Judiciary Committee a couple of years ago, the now chairman of the Finance Committee said, Well, it would be two consenting adults. Two consenting adults doesn't satisfy a standard here in America. Two consenting adults could be twin brothers, a brother and a sister, a mother and a daughter, a mother and a son, a father and a daughter. Those things would all be rejected and objected to by society's norms today. 
   But is this about breaking down society's norms? Is it about breaking down our values? Is that really the agenda over here on this side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker? I will submit it is. The agenda is change, change, change. Change sells at every one of those Presidential rallies across the country because that is the mission of that side of the aisle. Change for what purpose? 
   I will submit that if I had a magic wand and an infinitely long list, and I could say that Speaker Pelosi and the people whom she works with and those philosophically aligned with her, you can make me a list of all the things on your wish list, and I will assume here in fantasy land that I have a magic wand and I can grant every wish.  
   So here we are in the middle of January, and you can spend all year long putting that wish list together, Madam Speaker. When it comes midnight, all of the things that you want to change, the full breadth of the imagination of your wish list and all of your ideological colleagues, put that list together and submit the list, and when the ball drops in Times Square to turn us into the new year 2009, at the stroke of midnight, with the help of the magic wand, could grant every wish on the wish list, I would argue that should that happen, and the deal would need to be you get your wish, but now you have to be quiet for the rest of your life. You fill out your wish list, and now you are going to have to be satisfied and live with the results of your request, and maybe even the consequences of your request, but just the results. 
   If that happened and the wish list were achieved at midnight, December 31, 2008, at the stroke of midnight on the new year of 2009, and the deal was no more complaints, you have to be happy you have finally gotten everything you wanted, now and forever, or even for a decade or a generation, that team that put the list together would stay up the rest of the night not celebrating but looking to see what it was that they forgot to change. What they wanted to tear down of society's values today or what they forgot to change for tomorrow. 
   There is no anchor. There is no philosophical anchor. There is no philosophical core because the core changes. For me and for my colleagues, we have a philosophical core, Mr. Speaker. This core is rooted in our constitutional values and the values that are laid out by our Founding Fathers and the rights that come from God and the values that are taught through the family that is joined together in holy matrimony. And the ethics of faith and worship and freedom and hard work and the obligation to leave this world a better place than it was when we came, that achievement of the American Dream, that laying out a culture that raises up the leaders for the next generation that will lay a new foundation on top of the old one so that the next generation can build on that and achieve the American Dream, all of that is wrapped up in the value system of the people that I go to conference with, the constituents that come out day after day after day to talk to me, to talk to nearly a multitude of Presidential candidates that went across Iowa for the past year or more. 
   These values matter. These destiny issues matter. The next two appointments to the Supreme Court matter, and those will be the appointments that will uphold all of our constitutional rights. They will uphold our second amendment rights, for example. And our rights to freedom of speech and religion and assembly. And they will understand the 10th amendment; the responsibility that the power is not designated for the Federal Government, are reserved for the States and the people, respectively. That devolution of power down to the States, that idea called federalism, the States' rights idea need to be preserved and promoted by the next President of the United States. We need to understand basic fundamental principles. 
   But the destiny of America is going to be tied to our ability to be able to produce leaders that make decisions today that lay the foundation, that shapes the culture that tomorrow raises up tomorrow's leaders who will then lay the next layer on top of that foundation. 
   And if we get it wrong, if we get a flaw, if we get a rotten piece in the foundation and we have to build upon that, we can't go back and take that section back and reform and reshape and repour it. The destiny issues we are stuck with. They are our decisions and we have to live with them, and that's why it is important. 
   So as I have spoken about Roe v. Wade and life and marriage and appointments to the Supreme Court and emphasize how important that is and how essential that we have a President who makes those appointments, and when he closes the door of the Oval Office after all of the lobbyists have come and gone and after all of the political supporters and advisor and the chief of staff and all of the people that advise the President, when they are all done weighing in and the door closes on the Oval Office, I want a leader in that office that I know shares my core values, Mr. Speaker. I want a leader in that office that I don't have to wonder about whether he is swayed by someone's special interest or whether he is swayed by some temporary benefit or some trade or some deal or some bargain or something other than the best interests in the long-term good for the United States of America as grounded in our core values and understanding the very principles that this Nation was founded upon and the necessity to adhere to those core principles and move forward and build another layer of a sound foundation. 
   That's what I want in a leader, Mr. Speaker. And those will be appointments to the Supreme Court that will shape the foundation of our culture and our destiny. 
   But another component of this, an essential core component of this, as I mentioned earlier, of all of the pillars of American exceptionalism, the pillars of faith and family and freedom and the Declaration and the Constitution and the free-market economy and property rights and the devolution of power from the Federal Government down to the States and the States' rights as separated within the 10th amendment, all of those issues are pillars of American exceptionalism. 
   And another pillar would be the vitality that comes with legal immigration. We have had the privilege in this country of having, for the most part of our history, a smart immigration policy that attracted people to come into the United States that had a dream. And many of them sold themselves into indentured servitude for perhaps 7 years just to get a boat ride from London to Baltimore, for example, and went to work and worked off their passage because they knew that they could become free and they could then go to work here and build a dream and raise a family. 
   I look back at my ancestors and what they have done, and most, if not all of them, have participated in that dream. But from every donor culture in civilization, we got the vitality of that culture and civilization. 
   The people who didn't have a dream, didn't find a way to get on a boat and come to the United States, they sat back where they were. They were content to live within that society and environment that didn't provide the opportunities that were here because they didn't want to take the risk or they didn't have the energy or just didn't share the dream. And I don't say that, Mr. Speaker, to diminish anyone who didn't come to the United States. I say that to identify that we skimmed the vitality off the top of every donor civilization that sent people here across the world. And they came here with an extra vigor and energy and dream, and we found a way to bring them together and assimilate them into a common culture, this greater overall American culture. And when they got tied together, they latched onto that opportunity and got in the harness and went to work. We found a vitality here that had never been created in any society or civilization anywhere in the world. That is often a missed component of American exceptionalism is the vitality that comes from the donor civilizations that sent legal immigrants here to the United States. That is a vitality that I want to preserve and promote and protect. 
   Another one of the reasons that we have been able to be a successful Nation, because we are a Nation not of men but a Nation of laws, of all of the pillars of American exceptionalism that I have mentioned, the central pillar of American exceptionalism, Mr. Speaker, is the rule of law. If we do not protect and preserve the rule of law, you can only then go back to what kind of political influence you have: who do you have favor with, who can you get to do you a favor, who can you get to set aside a law, and who will be immune to the law. 
   In this country, justice has always been equal for everyone regardless of their economic or their social status or their ethnicity or their national origin. If you are a member of the human race, you get the same version of justice in America and the same opportunity in America as anybody else. And it has not been about equality of results; it has been about equality of opportunity. Those protected civil rights that are identified in title VII of the Civil  Rights Act are there, and they need to be protected so everyone has an equal opportunity. 
   And the rule of law gives us that guarantee that we can work within that environment and that rule of law will protect our property rights and let us build, earn, saving and invest. But if we become a society and a civilization that has disregarded the rule of law and perhaps created contempt for the rule of law, I believe that central pillar of American exceptionalism would have been removed from our society or diminished or eroded to the point that it no longer has the credibility that it has, let me say that it had, 20 years ago.     
   I believe that pillar called the rule of law needs to be refurbished and restrengthened because it is essential for America to continue to be an exceptional Nation. For us to continue to be a leader in the free world, the leader in the free world, we simply must preserve and protect and refurbish the rule of law. 
   So as I look to the 1986 amnesty bill that was signed by Ronald Reagan, defined as amnesty, and if you lay the components of that bill down alongside the components of either one of the two Senate versions of the comprehensive immigration reform bill, the McCain-Kennedy bill, that's probably the one that most often defines it, the components of those bills, when you do a side-by-side comparison match up almost identically. The 1986 amnesty bill, the McCain-Kennedy comprehensive immigration reform bill match up side by side, piece by piece almost all the way down. 
   President Reagan called it amnesty. I remember the debate in New Hampshire the other night where it was alleged that anybody that says that anyone who supports comprehensive immigration reform in the Senate, or that anyone who calls comprehensive immigration reform in the Senate amnesty is a liar. That came out in the debate. 
   Mr. Speaker, that offends me, because I know what amnesty is and the American people know what amnesty is. And either of the two versions that were presented in the United States Senate last year was amnesty. And I don't know how anyone can argue otherwise, except to go back to the President's speech in about January 6 of 2004; that was the first aggressive effort to roll out comprehensive immigration reform. That speech attempted to redefine amnesty, and there's been an attempt on the part of the administration and the open borders crowd to redefine amnesty for the last 4 years. 
   You just can't trump Noah Webster, Mr. Speaker. People in America know what amnesty is. And if you wanted comprehensive immigration reform, which I'll call comprehensive amnesty, then you should have just stepped up to it and said, yes, we're for amnesty, and we're going to define for you what amnesty is, too, and we're going to also argue that we have to grant amnesty, or otherwise we can't accomplish the goals that we'd like to see with immigration reform. 
   If they would have made that argument, Mr. Speaker, and I don't make that argument, but if they had, their argument would have had a lot more credibility. But instead, the proponents of comprehensive immigration reform sought to redefine the term amnesty, and they got bogged down in trying to tell the American people that the word we understood to mean amnesty meant something different. 
   They argued that, well, it's not amnesty if somebody has to pay a fine. It's not amnesty if you make people learn English. It's not amnesty if you require them to pay their back taxes or pay their bills or be an honest citizen and not get locked up and be convicted of a felony. 
   Mr. Speaker, they argue that if you required all of those things, it wasn't amnesty. And so of all of those things that I've mentioned, those are required of people that would come here legally to become an American citizen, including pay the fee in order to be naturalized. 
   By the time you add up the dollars that are required to come into the United States legally and achieve a lawful permanent resident status and the fees for a green card, and the fees to be naturalized as a citizen, you're pretty close to the dollar figure that they first proposed would be necessary in order, if you're here illegally, to buy your way into legality. It's lawful permanent residence, a green card, naturalization, citizenship of the United States for sale for paying a fee that they called a fine that they said that they are going to absolve the issue of amnesty. 
   Now, the American people understand this, that when you commit a crime in America, there's a penalty for that that's listed in the penal code, whether it's a Federal law or whether it's a State law. And the penalty that's listed needs to be the one that's applied to the perpetrator upon conviction. 
   You can't go rob a bank and be looking at life in prison for robbing a bank, and after you rob the bank, they come along and change the law and say, well, now the penalty is only going to be a year in prison rather than life in prison. If you did that for a whole class of people, that would be amnesty. If you said to the bank robbers, you're going to have to pay a fine now instead of being locked up in prison for 10 or 20 years or life, and you did that to a whole class of people, that's amnesty. 
   The distinction for amnesty generally comes into, are you going to waive the penalty or reduce the penalty for a class of people for a crime they've already committed under a different penalty clause, a different penalty phase? If you do that, you're granting amnesty, Mr. Speaker. 
   And what is amnesty? I've defined this many times. It's many times in the Congressional Record. It's gone through the House Judiciary Committee. To grant amnesty is to pardon immigration lawbreakers and reward them with the objective of their crime. Pardon and reward. Pretty simple concept. 
   If people are here in the United States illegally, and the Senate gets their way, well, they actually voted it down over there, so some in the Senate who at least were aggressive enough to advance this got their way, then they would have pardoned the immigration lawbreakers en masse, by the tens of millions. 
   While I'm on that subject, you know, we've been saying here in this Congress for at least 5 years, there are 12 million illegals in America. Twelve million. It's interesting to me that last year we stopped 1,188,000 illegal border crossers on the southern border; that's the Border Patrol doing their job. And most of them self-deported, volunteered to go back to their home country. Most of them went across the line to the south to their home country; about two-thirds of them did. So we've stopped 1,188,000. 
   And according to testimony before the House Judiciary Committee, the Border Patrol says they stop a fourth to a third of those who try. So that means, and you do the math, about 4 million tried to go across the southern border. Most of them made it. Two out of every three, or three out of every four made it. You kind of do the math on that, 4 million border crossing attempts, and that works out to be about 11,000 a night trying to get across our southern border, most of them making it, the significant majority of them making it across the border, 11,000. 
   Now, what does that mean? Four million in a year. 11,000 a night, Mr. Speaker. To put that in context, I just ask the question, how large was Santa Ana's army? And go back and read the historical reports. Most of them will fall between five and 6,000 was the size of Santa Ana's army. 
   So every single night, coming across our southern border, on average, and I say night, not day, because most happens at night, the equivalent of twice the size of Santa Ana's army, 11,000 come pouring into the United States illegally, accumulating at a rate a lot faster than not just 12 million 5 years ago, but a number that I believe today significantly exceeds 20 million illegals in the United States of America, putting pressure on our social services, putting pressure on our health care, putting pressure on our schools, putting pressure on our infrastructure, our utilities, our roads, our streets, our sewers, our lights. 
   We're building infrastructure to accommodate for people that if ICE got there first wouldn't be there to put pressure on our infrastructure. And under the guise of what? The idea that the argument made by the open borders crowd, by the comprehensive amnesty people, and that would include  everybody on the Democrat ticket and some of the folks on the Republican ticket for President, Mr. Speaker, advocating that we need to legalize tens of millions of people here. And I guess you can eliminate law breaking if you just eliminate the laws. 
   They argue that this economy can't prosper if we don't have massive amounts of cheap labor, and that if they all went home tomorrow this economy would collapse. 
   Mr. Speaker, I'm here to put this into perspective for the American people. You have to think of this United States of America as one big company. 300 million people here. And of those 300 million people, we have a work force of about 142 million. And out of that work force, about 6.9 million of them are illegals working in our economy, 6.9 million of the 142 million. 
   If you do the math, you're going to come down to around 4.7 percent of the work force is illegal. And of that 4.7 percent, since they're lower skilled people, on average, they're doing only 2.2 percent of the work. 
   So, if you're managing a factory and say you're a good manager and you show up at 7:30 in the morning and your employees clock in at 8 o'clock and the production lines have to start and you run from 8 till 5 and you work 8 hours and you kick product out the door and you load it on trucks and it has to go every day in an 8-hour shift, you have to produce the gross domestic product of that company. 
   Well, this Nation has to do the same thing equivalently. So, at 7:30 in the morning, if you, as a manager of a company, discovered that 2.2 percent of your work force, remember, that's the percentage of the work that's being done, not the percentage of the work force; but if 2.2 percent of your work force wasn't going to show up, it would take about 5 minutes to type out a memo that would go to all the departments in your company that would say, we're going to have to make up for a loss of 2.2 percent of our production today and every day until we can hire enough people to replace those 2.2 percent that didn't show up. 
   And my memo would say this. Your coffee break in the morning isn't going to be 15 minutes today; it's going to be 9 1/2 minutes. And your coffee break this afternoon isn't going to be 15 minutes, it's going to be 9 1/2 minutes because we have to pick up 2.2 percent of the production if you're going to go home at 5 o'clock. 
   Now, I made that management decision today because you might have plans, but we can decide to work till 11 minutes after 5 every day and you can get your full coffee break morning and afternoon. But 2.2 percent of the work, if all the work in America was done in an 8-hour day, amounts to 11 minutes out of an 8-hour day. That's the impact of the illegal labor in our work force here in America. 
   And the rest of it's just distribution, Mr. Speaker. The rest of it's recruitment lines and it's training and it's education and it's letting the market work; letting companies that need labor go out there and do the recruitment, do the training. 
   It's never been easy. And I've been an employer most all of my life. I met payroll for over 28 years, 1,400 some consecutive weeks. And I can remember recruiting in the high schools and around and making sure that I had a good program out there so that we could hire good people. I didn't always make the best decision. But we were able to put together a good, reliable work force because that was part of our operation. 
   Today the argument is, well, no, we don't have people lined up for these jobs, and so, therefore, that proves we need to open the borders some more. Well, of course they're not lined up for the jobs. Of course they aren't; not if you're not going to pay them the wages that it takes so that people can take care of their families and pay their way in this society. 
   Supply and demand. And we're watching the middle class in America collapse because of a flood of cheap labor coming in on the low side of the economic spectrum to provide cheap labor in the factories for the elitists in America who are increasingly moving into gated communities and sending their children to Ivy League schools and believing that their descendants will all be able to live in the upper crust and have cheap labor to take care of their yards and their mansions and the labor in their factories, while the blue collar person in America, the one who, of the 16 or 17 percent of Americans who are high school dropouts, the American citizens that decide that education isn't in their future, but would like to go work in the local factory, punch the time clock and go in there and do an honest day's work for an honest day's pay, that dream that was achievable 20 years ago, that dream that would allow them, the blue collar people, lower educated people with a good work ethic to be able to punch the clock and do a day's work for a day's pay and buy a modest house and raise their family and go fishing and go to the ball game and do those things and be part of this society, that dream is almost gone, Mr. Speaker, because those jobs have been flooded and diminished by low skilled labor pouring into America. Labor is a commodity like corn and beans or gold or oil. And the value of it will be determined by supply and demand in the marketplace. And when you flood lower skilled jobs with low skilled people, you're going to see wages go down. They've, in fact, gone down in some of the categories. And unemployment in America has gone up within the categories of the lowest skill. There's direct evidence in this economy that the flood of cheap labor is holding wages down. 
   Twenty years ago, people that worked in the packing plant in my neighborhood were making about the same amount as a teacher. Today, they're making about half as much as a teacher is making, and they can't make it any longer. And so society pays the burden of health insurance and that burden on the schools on our infrastructure, while the companies get a discount on their labor. 
   We need to think this thing through, Mr. Speaker, and we need to hold the Presidential candidates, whether they're Democrats or Republicans accountable. We need to ask them, please define amnesty. Accept my definition; to pardon immigration lawbreakers and reward them with the objective of their crime. Pardon and reward. Accept that definition, take the oath not to promote amnesty, to veto any bill that might come before their desk that is amnesty. Let's have a little tighter labor supply in America. Let's re-establish the sovereignty of the United States of America by building the fence and end birthright citizenship, and apply our laws in the workplace to shut off the jobs magnet.     
   Let's let attrition kick in and let people make a decision to go back to their home country. They got here on their own; they can go home on their own. 
   We have got to build a country for America. We have to have an immigration policy that's designed to enhance the economic, the social and the cultural well-being of this country, and we need to export our values to other countries so they can build on the same dream. If we do that, not only would this Nation be a greater Nation but this planet and the people on it will be better off, and we will have achieved the American dream. 
   We will have not just left this Nation a better place for the people that come behind us; we'll have left this world a better place for the people that come behind us. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, I thank you for your indulgence. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentlelady from Tennessee and especially all the work that you do and the way that you helped direct this communications together so that it is a consistent message. And it is a privilege to serve with you. And there is a certain bond that comes in. When you come into this Congress together, you go through these wars together, and you fight the battles together and stand up for Americans and for the Constitution together. And those are bonds that make us stronger and make us better and more unified. And when we see things happen that are breaking down the opportunity for a better American destiny, that is when we rally and come together for the things that are right. 
   And so with the discussion that has been going on here, that has to do with the responsibility of funding and being able to put together a real fundamental tax reform and the reference to the fair tax, I need to stand and say that that is something that I came to a conclusion that I was supportive of that concept some time in about 1980. In fact, I know it was 1980 because it was the IRS that audited me one too many times in a row and the audit was for 1979. And as I sat there and my business was immobilized for 4 days while I pulled pieces  out of the filing cabinet, finally we got that resolved. And then I went back out and climbed in the seat of a bulldozer and I began to think, why are those people in my kitchen? Why are they looking through everything, all my records that I have had for the last several years? Who do they think they are making Monday morning quarterback decisions on decisions I had to make on the fly while I was trying to make a living? And wouldn't it be wonderful if we could live without the Internal Revenue Service. 
   And so I started with that principle, quickly got to the principle of, as Ronald Reagan said, what we tax we get less of. What you subsidize, you get more of. What we tax we get less of. 
   And so the Federal Government, in its ``infinite wisdom,'' and I do put that in quotes, has the first lien and taxation on all productivity in America. Well, I want to take that first lien off of all productivity. I want to untax all productivity. I want to untax the poor. I want to put the tax on consumption, not production. And if we do that, we will see this Nation's economy blossom and grow dramatically. People will get back their freedom. Little Johnny, that puts up his baseball cards, or Sally, that buys her Barbie doll clothes, will have to dig a couple of dimes out for Uncle Sam. And when they see that, transaction after transaction, that generation of Americans will understand how expensive the Federal Government really is, and some of those little Johnnys and Sallys will come to this Congress and stand here on this floor like we are tonight, and they are going to say, boy, you know, I kind of like my freedom, and I am really not that happy with more government security, and we will have a Nation of responsible people that will be singing their voices here on the floor of Congress and shrinking the responsibilities that Congress has taken on, and expanding personal responsibility. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would also like to address this issue of this bill that we expect is coming to the floor next week, and the bill that would have in it the supplemental appropriations for our armed services, and all the bells and whistles and the Christmas tree that the people on the inside of the door could possibly hang on there to the tune of, we are at least hearing $20 billion in other wants that some people want to have that they want to bring to this floor when we need to make sure that we fund our military in a responsible fashion.     
   And we haven't seen a lot of those details. They aren't going to come to us in time to actually debate them and analyze them very well, but they have been leaked to the press. 
   So I would like to make a point here, a point, Mr. Speaker, for the American people to understand. We all come down here on this floor every new Congress, this 110th Congress. And I bring my Bible to the floor and I swear on my Bible, not the Koran, but the Bible, and I swear to uphold the Constitution of the United States. 
   Well, I happen to have one here, I carry it in my jacket pocket every day. And the people who are behind the scenes that are drafting the supplemental bill that needs to take care of our military and adding the billions of dollars onto that need to go back and check this Constitution in a couple of places. They swore the same oath. And here are our constitutional responsibilities as a Congress. This comes from article I, section 8. 
   We have the responsibility and the constitutional authority to declare war; to raise and support armies, to provide and maintain a navy, by implication, and an air force; and to make rules for the government and regulation of the land and naval forces. 
   And we also have to recognize that in the Constitution the President shall be commander in chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the militia of the several States when called into actual service of the United States. That is our constitutional obligation, Mr. Speaker. And we have all taken the same oath. 
   And we will have another profound constitutional debate here on the floor of this Congress. And I will submit that there has not been a court test or a court challenge to the standards that I am going to ask this Congress to be held to, and that is, this constitutional standard, this standard of we declare war, we fund the military and we hand the authority of commanding this military over to the commander in chief because it is a constitutional right that he has and a constitutional obligation that we have to support and trust him as he makes those decisions, those life and death decisions; and I mean life-and-death decisions for armed services personnel, also life-and-death decisions for American civilians, for civilians around the world. 
   The life-and-death decisions for the life of this Nation hang in the balance. And we think that we have 435 generals here in the House of Representatives, and 100 generals over there in the Senate, and somehow that committee of 535 can come to a consensus and we can figure out how to fight a war which requires intelligence, secrecy, knowledge, decisionmaking, the element of surprise, the list could go on and on and on, all the things we could give up if we think we can micromanage a debate from here. 
   It is a political debate on this floor, Mr. Speaker; it is not an analytical debate. It needs to become a constitutional debate. I am going to stand with the Constitution. I am going to stand with my Oval Office. I am going to stand with the commander in chief, whether he is a Democrat or Republican, and maintain my constitutional responsibility here and keep my oath, which I swore on my family Bible here on the floor of the United States Congress. 
   I would be happy to yield back to the lady from Tennessee, and I thank you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (HISTORY AND THE WAR IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - June 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate that, and I appreciate the gentleman from Tennessee for organizing this special order tonight. As I had the privilege to sit here on the floor and listen to each of the speakers, it was a good education for me to listen to the eloquent voices that stand up so well and speak for defending our freedom. 
   To take us towards the to the point towards conclusion of this hour, it is hard to pick up on that tone that was left by Mr. Franks of Arizona, the understanding of over 6,000 casualties on that first day. I presume that they were those killed in action on that day, and on D-Day landing on Omaha Beach and on Utah Beach and on other points there in Europe. That is a place and a location that will always live in the history of this country. It is a place of glory. It is a place where freedom was begun to spread back across Europe.  
   As I look at that, and I see these 60-some years hence the D-Day landing, I can't help but think that those countries in Europe that have experienced freedom the longest seems to hang on to that freedom the least, and those countries in Europe, particularly eastern Europe, that have lived under tyranny the most recently, seem to want to grasp that freedom and hang on to it and fight for it and defend it more aggressively. 
   That is reflected, I think, in the troops that are part of our coalition troops in Iraq. In one of my trips over there, I found myself standing with a British general down in Basra. I looked around his headquarters there, and I exempt the Brits from that definition, because they have been tenacious and stood with us in Iraq and other places around the world, but as I looked around, the uniforms and the national flags that were on the shoulders of the coalition groups, Great Britain there, Australia there, Romanians there, there were Danish soldiers there, Bulgarian soldiers there, as I recall, and the list went on. 
   If I remember right, it was eight different countries represented at those headquarters. I just gathered them together at random, lined them up and stood there and had their picture taken so that I could go back and reference which countries were represented. 
   But it surely appeared to me that the nations that had lived most recently behind the iron curtain, the one that had the least experience with freedom, were the ones that were the most likely to be there serving with and defending us and defending the freedoms of the people of Iraq and helping with the liberation that is there. That does not take away from the commitments that we have seen on the part of the British, and especially the Australians. They will let me know always that they have been with us in every war, and sometimes they beat us there. So I count them among our best friends and our best allies. 
   But here we are, with a debate that is going on continually here on the floor of this Congress. The questions that come to mind, as I listen to this discussion, I have to ask this question, what do liberals think? What are they thinking about? How can they draw a conclusion that somehow, even though Iraq is the central front in the war on terror, and that al Qaeda has streamed into Iraq to fight us there, in a way, a lot like the bug light. It is attractive, millions of them have been killed. They were captured and taken out on the field of battle there in Iraq. I would a lot rather have it there than here, and so would the American people. 
   But how can one argue that the war against terror is not in Iraq, it is anywhere else where they might be. We listened to the gentleman from Tennessee go through a long place of places around the world where the Islamic terrorists have attacked, a lot of times, free people. With that list, you have to know that this is a global war. These jihadists are attacking people, not like them, and their belief that they could expand, they should expand the caliphate at least around Western Europe and to the United States and presumably to the rest of the world, how can one conclude then that you would take a place off the map that has been paid for with the blood of American patriots, coalition force patriots and the blood of Iraqis, and the treasure, and say we are going to give it up. 
   We have liberated it. We have earned it, we have paid for it, and, now, we are going to give it up and hand it over to the terrorists because the war on terror is not in Iraq, even though Osama bin Laden believed it was there, and al Zarqawi believed it was there and al Zawahiri believes it is there. 
   It is obvious, General Petraeus has told us over and other again, that's where the central front is. In fact, Speaker Pelosi conceded that same point in one of her remarks here in a failed attempt to override one of the President's vetoes on one of their unconstitutional appropriations bills, but Iraq is the central front in the war on terror. 
   To argue that we should pull out of there and let that country become whatever it would become, and that would be the off limits, safe ground and territory for al Qaeda to set up shop, because, politically, it was a good argument to make. 
   All right, I can't follow that rationale, I can't follow that. If it is logical, someone has got to explain that to me. So we have a liberal approach to this. It is a law enforcement problem. Yes, we should go after Osama bin Laden in the mountains between Afghanistan and Pakistan, and we should do that. 
   But we can fight this war on many fronts. We are a nation that can do that. Before this is over, we will have to do it in many places simultaneously. But we dare not walk away from this country that we pitched our future with. It was the right decision to go in there. I regret we had to. 
   The President didn't have a choice, and honest historians will write that into the history books. But if we should walk away from there now, under any kind of ruse or under any kind of an excuse, they will claim victory, and, you would see, not just sectarian violence and the devastating bloodshed that would come from that until such time a dictator emerges, it can rule that part of the world, that's not the worst of things. It is a bad thing, but it's not the worst of things. 
   What I believe you would see happen is the Sunni triangle would become the haven for the al Qaeda terrorists. They would set up shop there, unchallenged. We wouldn't have a way to go in and challenge them, because if we're not willing to take them out and keep them out of there now, why would we ever have the will to go in and take them out later. You know that the price would be higher, but the will wouldn't be materialized. 
   So I believe al Qaeda takes over the Sunni triangle, and that would be the base of their operations, and they would seek to expand that base of operations. But, worse than that, as you have right now, you have Iranians fighting a proxy war against the United States in Iraq, and in Afghanistan. 
   In fact, the motion to recommit with instructions that Mr. Pence offered today illustrated how Iran is engaging themselves into the operations and in the support of the Taliban and Afghanistan. But they have been engaged in this proxy war against the United States in Iraq for 2 1/2 or perhaps 3 years. 
   So if we were to pull out of there, you would see the hegemony of the Iranians go into the Shi'a regions and the influence of that, get entrenched further in the Shi'a regions of Iraq. Those regions control 70 to 80 percent of Iraq's oil. That would put Iran in control of the oil in that region, and the Strait of Hormuz, through which 42.6 percent of the world's export oil supply flows. 
   They would be in a position to decide when their treasure chest is full of oil money, when they have purchased enough scientists and enough nuclear capability and when they have developed enough delivery capability to terrorize the rest of the world and attack the rest of the world with their nuclear capability, pick their time, shut down or shut off, I call it the valve at the Strait of Hormuz, the place where the oil has to flow through. Through that strait, they can control the economy of the world. 
   If that valve is shut down, that sends the United States, the effect of the cost of our oil price is going through the roof, $3 a gallon gas would be cheap if that would happen. That would put the United States into at least a recession, probably a depression. 
   China would follow us. They are starved for the energy the same way, and their economy is linked to ours. If we catch a cold, they sneeze, because they sell so much product to us. The biggest losers in this would be the United States, China. The biggest winners, Iran in their hegemony; and the Russians who have more oil than they know what to do with. 
   That's why Putin is opposed to our operations there, and that's why we are getting a lot of grief out of Putin. This outfit over here says somehow says we shouldn't fight this in Iraq. The worst scenarios are the ones that I have talked about, and I anticipate a nuclear Iran, an Iran that is committed to annihilating Israel, and an Iran that is committed to annihilating the United States. 
   That's the rationale that we are dealing with here. I wonder if they can actually think through this. But I also wonder why anyone would think that the voters have hired 535 liberal generals to micromanage a global war on terror. In fact, I'd ask anyone in this  Chamber, come down, and I will yield time to you, and you tell me, name me a single general that was a liberal, a successful liberal general throughout all the history of the world. 
   I defy you to name one, there isn't one. One has never existed. One will never exist. Liberal generals don't succeed, 535 micromanaging liberal generals certainly don't succeed. It's not Congress' business to micro manage war. It's our job to fund them and support them and equip our troops, field an Army and a Navy, and declare a war if the situation calls for it. We haven't done so since World War II. 
   That's our job in this Congress, and that's our constitutional limitations. We need to live by those limitations and not be busting our buttons believing that we can do something here that isn't getting done, maybe, to the satisfaction of the people on that side of the aisle or mine, for that matter. 
   But there is a tremendous amount at stake, and it is more than the lives that have been invested so far, those that have been lost so far. God bless them for that. Zach Wamp spoke well to that, but the destiny of America and the destiny of the free world and the destiny of western civilization are all on the line matched up against a belief that they are going to restore a caliphate and renew a 100 year-old conflict that has been taking place here in the war, here in the world for hundreds of years. 
   We have a western civilization belief, we believe in freedom, this has been a country that has been founded on Judeo-Christian principles. That's some of the foundation of our strength, free enterprise market economy is another one, belief in the rule of law, and the foundational principles that we have in this Constitution, all tied together, all at risk, all matched up against people that don't believe in freedom, people that believe in death, people that execute homosexuals and female adulteresses, by the way. 
   Many people on this side of the aisle have a different belief system. I don't know why they would want to ally themselves with the interests of those who want to restore the caliphate, stone women and execute homosexuals and destroy your freedom and your freedom of religion. All of that is tied up in the risk of this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I very much appreciate the gentlemen that have bought this amendment to the floor. It is something that all America has been fixated upon, because they understand the injustice that underlies the prosecution of these two Border Patrol officers. And I would like to characterize this perhaps a little bit differently. 
   Listening to the gentleman, my friend who just got done speaking, talking about the mandatory minimums being something that comes back to bite us in the you-know-where, no, this isn't the mandatory minimum issue that is before us tonight. This is the equivalent of a private bill. 
   We have brought private bills through this Congress a number of times when we see issues that there is such an egregious case for specific individuals that we will generally bring that language through the Judiciary Committee, through the Immigration Subcommittee and on through Judiciary and onto the floor. It has happened a number of times in my time here in Congress. In fact, I have one here today that one of your colleagues from your side of the aisle offered to me, and I will consider it. But this is actually in my jacket pocket. This is a private bill asking for relief for people who have violated the law but find themselves in unique circumstances and pleading upon this Congress to make an exception because they are unique circumstances, and this is a measure to our heart. 
   What does our heart have to say to us when you see two Border Patrol officers who put their lives on the line on a daily basis and find themselves caught in this legalistic vice that has unfolded because, I think, of a discretionary decision by a U.S. Attorney in his prosecution? 
   What I am concerned about is if this Congress doesn't stand up and defend these two people, Ramos and Compean, Border Patrol officers will be reluctant to pull their weapon in the line of duty and they will be in the line of fire. And I am afraid we will lose one or more Border Patrol officers in the line of duty because they will be hesitant to ever pull their weapon. That is a piece of their thing. 
   I yield to the gentleman from Texas, and again thank him for his work in bringing this amendment to the floor.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I'd say also there is a bill following this. If this doesn't do the job, I have a bill ready to introduce that grants them a new trial, a de novo review, and it removes the jurisdiction to the Northern District of Texas. 
   We're going to find a solution this. We're going to stand up and defend Ramos and Compean. This sends the message. It might get the job done. I urge adoption. 
   I yield back. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, this is an amendment that I bring to the floor here reluctantly. It's an issue of conscience, and I think an issue of appropriate posture that this Congress should take. 
   We have been, throughout the course of some in the 108th, and many in the 109th, and now more issues coming up within the 110th Congress that have to do with questions about the propriety of some of our Members, both sides of the aisle, Republicans and Democrats. And we're well aware of some of those cases. In a number of those cases, it was a good thing for us to step above that and seek to improve the integrity of this body. 
   The public is aware, I believe, that there is an investigation that is underway. It has been taken up by the Department of Justice and published in  the New York Times, in the Wall Street Journal, and a number of other places, and the circumstances being that a former member of the Ethics Committee stepped down from the Ethics Committee to avoid the appearance of impropriety during an investigation. And yet, since that investigation began, the same Member has opted to step forward and take on the gavel of the very appropriations committee that deals with the funding of the investigation that's being conducted. 
   This was an issue that was a subject matter before the Judiciary Committee in hearings that brought our Attorney General Alberto Gonzales forward. And I asked the Attorney General, after the allegation was made by a majority member on the committee about impropriety of investigations or political intimidations on the part of the Department of Justice, I asked the Attorney General if he was intimidated. I said, ``The question I would ask,'' and this is quoting from the Congressional Record, ``to you is, Mr. Attorney General, if the chairman of the Justice Appropriations Committee happened to have been under that kind of scrutiny, would that affect the kind of prosecution that takes place out of your Justice Department with regard to that particular Member of Congress?'' 
   The question has been raised, it's been raised by the national media, it's been raised before the Judiciary Committee, and it needs to be raised here on this floor while we deal with this issue of propriety. I make no allegations about guilt or innocence. I simply say that there is a huge question of impropriety when the chairman of justice approps has in one hand the gavel, and in the other hand the pursestrings that funds the very people that are conducting the investigation. 
   I bring this amendment forward to strike $1 million out and put $1 million in so that that $1 million can be used directly and exclusively for the investigation that's going forward and has been going on since December 2005. That's not swift and sure justice. That doesn't let this Member off the hook. He deserves an answer far more quickly from December 2005 until at least July of 2007. 
   All of those issues before us are raised and should be considered by this body. And I urge that the Members consider the reason that I reluctantly brought this amendment forward to take $1 million out and put $1 million, but to direct that that money be used to accelerate and complete the investigation that's underway now that casts such a shadow over this entire process, and particularly this appropriations process that's taking place before us here on the floor of Congress. 
   I think it's inappropriate. I think a decision should have been made by the Member. It has not been. That's why I have to bring this forward. 
   I urge the Members to support this amendment, and I intend to be able to review the Record that we expect to have on this amendment. So I would urge adoption of this amendment directing $1 million for the FBI to continue and accelerate their investigation so that they can either move forward to completion, or clear the individual who sits underneath this cloud. 
   With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from Ohio for coming to the floor and gaining some time to give me the ability to respond to the gentleman from West Virginia. 
   Mr. Chairman, I listened to his response. His response was measured. It was appropriate. But I didn't hear a response to the question about the intimidation factor and, in fact, the appearance of impropriety that the man holding the gavel is also holding the purse strings of the agency that is doing the investigation, according to the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal and a number of other publications across this country. 
   I think that is an appropriate question. I think this Congress has to ask that question. I think we have to answer that question. I had hoped that it would get asked and answered by the leadership on the majority side of the aisle. The leadership knew about this when they made the appointments to the Chairs of the committee. 
   So it is reluctantly that I bring this here. I wish that someone had stepped forward and taken this cup from me. But I can't cross this spot, which I recognize to be the Rubicon, knowing what I know, without raising the issue for the Members, to ask them to make a decision as well. 
   It is appropriate for any Member to raise an issue when it hasn't been properly dealt with by the leadership of this Congress. It is appropriate to lay facts out in front and debate those facts. It is not inappropriate to ask questions and ask for answers. 
   There is a lot more data here that I am aware of, but, factually, this is as far as I care to go with this issue. I want to ask the Members to make a decision. History will make a decision on this moment here on the floor of this Congress. Our decision is just temporary, but history will write this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CELEBRATING NATIONAL AGRICULTURE WEEK -- (House of Representatives - March 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. Smith) for bringing the highlight on agriculture here, because this is Agriculture Week. I am confident there have been some Agriculture Weeks go by here in this Congress without mention of such an important event. 
   I would like to take this discussion, if I could, I would like to take this discussion to a broader point, an overall point over the components that Mr. Smith has laid out here and try to put it into a perspective of where we are today in agriculture, and what it means for the future of agriculture, and what it means for the future of the world.     
   And I look back upon some of the great movements that have taken place in the history of humanity. And those movements being, for example, we go back to the stone age, and then from the stone age we move into the bronze age, and then the iron age, and then the industrial age. 
   In the industrial age we figured out how we could have labor that would be compartmentalized in its approach so that it wasn't one person that made all the components of a machine and put it together, but it was mass production. And in the industrial era, when we took to mass production, we raised the level of the standard of our living and raised the level of our technology dramatically. That was the Industrial Revolution. 
   And then we came along into the information age, where we figured out with the invention of the microchip that we could store and transfer information faster and more efficiently than ever before. And it took both the industrial era and the information age, took our society, took our culture to a higher level. A quantum leap in our economy. 
   Well, agriculture has really sat here, and since the inception of agriculture, the first time I think it was a cavewoman, planted some seeds outside the cave or recognized that they were growing, and they figured out how to cultivate crops thousands of years ago. What agriculture has done for thousands of years has just produced food and fiber. Produced it a lot better than they ever did before, more efficiently than ever before, as Mr. Smith has articulated very well about the increase in our production and our production capability, nearly an entire semi-load in a single hour today. But it is still food and fiber. Food and fiber for thousands of years the foundation of agriculture. But today we are going the next level up. We are food, fiber, and renewable fuels. A third level now for agriculture. 
   And I believe that the fuel components, the ethanol, the biodiesel in particular, and then the way we are able to render animal fats back into biodiesel, so now we have taken this next level not just for energy and not just for fuel, but at the same time where biotech has moved agriculture up to another level to where we are really in the middle of science at the same time. 
   But I think that agriculture has gone from that level of food and fiber and has taken the kind of quantum leap up into food, fiber, renewable fuel, and biotech products, the same kind of quantum leap that our society took when we went into the information age or when we went into the Industrial Revolution. Those are huge, huge things that we need to contemplate here, the efficiencies that have come into agriculture and the technology. 
   So today I have the privilege of representing one of the top ethanol production and biodiesel, actually wind generation of electricity production, renewable fuels production congressional districts in America. And I have watched that capital be invested. Private capital last year invested over $1 billion in infrastructure to produce renewable energy just in my congressional district, one out of 435 congressional districts, Mr. Speaker. And that is a huge investment, but it also says a lot about an industry that is being developed and an industry that is growing, and it is making us less dependent on Middle Eastern oil. 
   And as we move forward into cellulosic, and we are very confident that we can develop the technology to produce cellulosic ethanol, that opens up vast acres for the production of cellulose that has not been used in that kind of an efficient fashion before. And, again, that will produce a significantly larger portion of our ethanol that will go then to reduce our dependency on Middle Eastern gas. 
   But that is the energy side of this. And I talk about the energy side a lot, and I would like to maybe stretch our minds a little bit on what can happen with the biotech side, what is happening with the biotech side. 
   For example, there is biotech research that recognizes that there are 25 million little babies in the world each year that die unnecessarily due to the dehydration that is associated with diarrhea. And if the lactopheron, the component of mother's milk, can get into that little baby, that little baby that is on its last gasp and if we can put lactopheron in that baby, within 3 to 4 days that baby has its health back, its vigor back, and the baby is ready to go home with its mother. Well, we can't find enough and produce enough lactopheron by going to the mothers to extract it from their milk. But what we have done with biotech is spliced that lactopheron genetic chain into rice; and so then when we harvest the rice, we bring the rice back in and we extract the lactopheron, that genetic chain of lactopheron from the rice, and turn it into a little powder lactopheron that is a little piece of powder in a packet like maybe the sugar you put in your coffee. You tear that, drop that into a little vial of water, stir it up, warm it a little, give it to that baby that would be dead in a few hours, and that baby springs back to life and in 3 to 4 days that baby is ready to go home. That is science and technology. 
   And today we can save the lives of 6 million babies on 60 acres of rice. And we are extracting that lactopheron up there in our neighborhood, not very far from the Missouri River, I would add, Mr. Smith. It is on my side. That is one of the great things that we can do and are doing with science. 
   Another one is trypsin, and that is a component that you find in your tears. And as those tears wash across the eyeball, they are an antiseptic that keeps your eyes from getting infection in them, and one of the things from that would be pink eye. So we have also learned how to synthesize trypsin. And you see the pictures, especially Africa and in poor countries, of flies walking across little children's eyeballs. Well, the trypsin cures the blindness that comes from that kind of an affliction. That is another piece of biotech science that we have going on. 
   Another one, and I would say, Mr. Speaker, this is the most impressive and fantastic development and I am going to call it also agriculture. Of all the presentations that I have heard, of all the briefings that I have had the privilege to receive, this one is I believe the most impressive and has tremendous implications for all of humanity, and that is that today we have spliced through transgenics, and we can clone and use transgenics in the same operation, and it goes on thousands of times a day in America, at least the attempts to do, but splice through transgenics the human immune system into that of a hog. Now, we raise a few hogs in our neighborhood, too, so we are paying attention to those things. But it happens that not very far from where I live there is only one person in the country that is, at least for profit, bringing pigs by cesarean in a sterile environment. And this is Dr. Rexanne Struve, Manning, Iowa. She is working with a doctor from Pennsylvania who is working out of Blacksburg, Virginia, Virginia Tech University. And there they have spliced the immune genetics from a baboon into that of a hog, and raised that hog up until the hog was of adequate size that they could go in and harvest the heart from that hog and transplant it into a baboon. 
   Now this being an experiment, the baboon lived for 6 months. Now, that is a little better than the first 
   human heart transplant; I think significantly better. 
   But what they have proven now is that they are confident that they can transplant through transgenics this human immune system into a hog. And in doing so, and we are only 3 years, maybe 4 years away from being able to do this effectively, they can also custom build the organ rejection genetics. There are 12 major indicators, and they can put together the configuration of those 12 major indicators so they have the highest possibility of organ acceptance on a transplant and the lowest possibility of rejection for an organ transplant. So we will be able to very soon custom raise human organs in hogs. And today we are transplanting out of hogs anterior cruciate ligaments, knee ligaments, Mr. Speaker, and also heart valves. And we have done that for years. And the reason we can do that is that cartilage, and so there is not a rejection factor for cartilage. 
   But organs themselves; so I brought up we can raise in hogs 28 different organs. Not just hearts, but lungs, esophagus, stomach, bladder. One of the important ones, kidneys, pancreas, liver. Name your organ. Except for the brain;  we really don't plan to transplant that hog's brain in there. I think there are some folks in this Congress that might have had that already happen, Mr. Smith. At any rate, we would limit that organ. But there are 28 organs that we believe we can utilize in transplanting those organs from a hog into a human being. We had success doing that with anterior cruciate ligaments and with heart valves. We can surely do that with all the other organs. 
   And one of the most important is skin transplants. The burn victims that we have, the burn victims coming back from Iraq, to be able to give them a new skin that is custom raised in the feed lot in a sterile, sterile environment. And then the next step after that is to match your identical DNA, Mr. Speaker, so you can have your own customized hog there that has got customized organs that are identical as if they happened to have been your twin brother. 
   We will get there with this science, and it won't be there very long from now, 2 to 3 years on the first part of this matching the DNA chains exactly to take a sample. And raising those organs will happen within about, I am going to say, 12 to 15 years. But those are some of the things that we can do with biotechs in both the plant and animal science. And couple that with the renewable fuels, couple that with the tremendous production that we have provided. At the same time, we have more soil conservation, better water conservation, more fertilizer conservation, better land management, better processing and handling of our manure, for example. 
   There is no better steward for the environment than the American farmer. No one cares more about their water quality. No one cares more about their air quality. They live right in the middle of that every day, and they care about their land. They want to hand that along to the next generation and the next generation. The best stewards are the ones in charge, and they are in Iowa, they are in Nebraska, they are all across the Corn Belt, all across the soybean area, and they go from coast to coast with the specialty crop farmers. 
   This is a tremendous production system that we have in the United States, with outstanding and impressive people that commit their lives to feeding the world. And we need to honor them today on Ag Week here on the floor of Congress. And I certainly appreciate and respect the gentleman from Nebraska for raising this issue and being here tonight and for the opportunity to say a few words. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CELEBRATING NATIONAL AGRICULTURE WEEK -- (House of Representatives - March 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I appreciate the gentleman from Nebraska yielding. And as you discussed, the future of agriculture, and especially the young families, the families that are going to be raising their families on the farm and working in agribusiness in the towns, and it occurs to me that we often don't discuss about entrepreneurial agriculture. And it used to be that that was all we had was entrepreneurial agriculture. The traditional agriculture that I grew up with and in the middle of was purely, almost purely, entrepreneurial. 
   And yet we went through the farm crisis in the 1980s, and I recall those days. I lived for 3 1/2 years with a knot in my gut, Mr. Speaker, wondering if I was going to make it through from week to week. And sometimes your identity of your life's work is what you do. And I was in an ag-related business. 
   But the point that I want to make is that I saw this happen. And I saw producers, our bank closed April 26, 1985, Friday afternoon, 3 o'clock, not too far from where this clock sits right now. And the red tag went on the door of the bank, and the Highway Patrol guarded the doors. And everybody's account was frozen; my account, the accounts of my customers. And I had a payroll to meet, and I literally had two pennies in my pocket was all I had to work with. I could rub them together and, in fact, I did rub them together and think about the symbolism of what had happened. 
   Also, we had pretty good balanced ag operations going on at that time, with a significant commitment to the livestock industry. And so we had row croppers there raising soybeans and corn, and also cattle, hogs and some turkey feeders. 
   And as the new owner in the bank, which was identified over the weekend, began to take up the loan applications and the financial applications, now this is right in the middle of prime corn-planting time, April 26 in 1985. To have your account shut down, have your credit line shut down, and if you didn't have your inputs all purchased and delivered, no one knew if you had any credit or if they would ever be paid or not or how it would unfold. 
   So what happened was loan applicant after applicant that had been financed the day before began to line up to get applications, get their application reconsidered by the new owners. And the new owners, being prudent financiers, took a look at those balance sheets and the list of assets, and they asked the question, where are we the most vulnerable? Where are we most likely to lose our money? Well, that would be the livestock because it can die. And what is the most liquid commodity you have that you can turn it into cash the most quickly? That would also be the livestock. 
   And so the livestock was loaded up, hauled to the sale barn, ordered to slaughter, and farmer after farmer, neighbor after neighbor was taken out of the livestock business. And then they could set up so that these same producers could stay in the row crop business, and, because of the programs we had and the risk management tools that were in place then, and we have better ones in place today, because of that, they could lock them into the point where if they had a reasonable yield and not too much bad luck, they could stay in business another year and maybe another year. 
   So these balanced risk-spread operations, diversified ag operations, became row-crop operations. Livestock went on the truck and was shipped. And then so went the equipment that was necessary to support the livestock. Often the best combine was lined up and sold, and maybe even the best tractor, or even the best pickup, also sold, shrunk the operation down to where they could stay in business. 
   Now, that was a good thing to keep them in business, but we lost the livestock tradition. And we are rebuilding that now, and the industry has changed so much. But the entrepreneurialism that came with that, much of that disappeared at the same time, Mr. Speaker. And so what we need to have is people that can make a good living by taking risks and by investing in new ideas and new approaches. 
   Now, livestock has been a traditional approach, and it has been the mortgage lifter for years. Especially the hog production has been the mortgage lifter. But then to broaden that out and to raise specialty crops today with some of the biotech industry we had that I mentioned a little bit earlier. 
   Or I happened to come across, about 4 years ago, during a political campaign, a family in my district that had 1,300 acres. Presumably they were crop acres. I would suspect they were not all crop acres. But one of those 1,300 acres, it was all to corn that year except 1 acre, and that 1 acre was set aside to what I would call a glorified garden. And they had six kids, and these six kids must have turned out a lot of good, healthy development child labor. But that single acre, that acre of corn that that year that it went in was only penciled out at $300 an acre. This single acre of this glorified garden, high labor-intensive, highly managed type of an operation produced $27,000 worth of crop on 
   that single acre. Now, they might have put $40,000 worth of child labor into that, but they learned a work ethic, and they learned marketing, and they learned rotation, and they learned irrigation, and they learned weed management. But $27,000 per acre. 
   So when I found out about this, and I am sure there are other similar stories out there. It occurs to me that someplace between that, it is more than $300 an acre now, of course, but on that day, about $300 an acre for that field of corn versus $27,000 for that single acre of garden. 
   Between those two are all kinds of alternatives that are there for the entrepreneurs. So if they want to go the route of a lot of hard stoop labor and a lot of intense management and take on that labor to do that and try to pull that $27,000 out of that acre, or if they want to add some other things like organic, or if they want to raise specialty crops, all of these things need to be open for the young producers, and that is where they will find their extra margin profit. Not raising so much program crops; that is a baseline income that maintains the value of the land. But to up the ante, take a little more risk, put more management skill in, more labor in, and raise these specialty crops that, some of which I have talked about, and the organics on top of that, we will see young producers take that on because it is more labor-intensive, and young people are usually short of capital, and so what can they do? Well, they have got more labor that they can provide. They can do the work. 
   So I am looking forward to watching and hoping to provide the tools for the young agricultural entrepreneurs in both the crop and in the animal sciences for them to develop high-value commodities. And as they begin to feed the world, species after species, crop after crop, and we haven't gone anywheres near touching the surface of the things that we can do with biotech. 
   One of the other points, this is another scientific mind-stretcher, and that is that about, let's see, the years now come, about 32 years ago there was a rather dangerous species of an Asian animal, a bovine-related animal called a gaur, spelled G-A-U-R. And that animal had been in the San Diego Zoo for years. This poor gaur was getting old and had gone down, and it looked like it was going to die. Well, the zookeepers there or the scientists took a punch out of the ear of that gaur, froze it in liquid nitrogen at about, I think, 421 degrees below zero Fahrenheit, and kept that little piece of that ear of that endangered species animal that had died frozen for 28 years. And they picked that up and they sent it, then, about, oh, I am going to say 6 years ago on up to a town, a lab in Sioux Center, Iowa, called Trans Ova. There Dr. Jan Schietemann took that frozen piece of tissue, and he cloned that gaur animal by implanting the nucleus of that that he could take from that cell and cloning that into the egg of a cow, and implanted that embryo that was created, the cloned embryo of the gaur, into the uterus of the cow, where this gaur, this rare animal, kind of looks like a yak if you look him up on the Google image page. 
   This animal then was cloned and raised up, and the cow had this calf, a genetic copy of the animal that had died more than 28 years earlier. And about a year later, they shipped that young juvenile gaur back to the San Diego Zoo, where I presume he is still walking around and living happily ever after.  
   Now, that is a space age, Star Wars kind of a thing. But when you think about what we can do with that kind of science and how we can improve our herds, how we can improve productivity, how we can improve the meat quality and the feed conversion factors, how we can reduce and eradicate and in some cases eliminate disease, how we can work with all of that, at the same time opening up the field so that the ag producers across this country can continue to make a living and feed America is a very, very optimistic story. And I think we are in the best position right now in agriculture that we have ever been in the history of the United States and, in fact, the history of the world, and I am just sorry I am not going to be around long enough to see where it is going to take the next generation of humanity. 
   But I wanted to express those things. And I appreciate it. And I yield back to the gentleman from Nebraska and thank him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DREAM ACT IS AMERICAN NIGHTMARE -- (House of Representatives - October 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, as always, I very much appreciate the privilege to address you here on the floor of the United States House of Representatives. 
   Having sat here and listened to the discussion that was presented by our gentlemen from the Carolinas and talking about the drought in the Southeast, I am quite interested in the map that they have laid out for us to see. 
   Coming from an agriculture State and district myself, I will say I have significant empathy for the drought plight in that part of the country. That huge area of bright red tells me how tough it must be down there where it hasn't rained very much in a long time and gives me a sense before how long it will be before you can see green again in your part of the country, Mr. Etheridge. We have lived through that in past years, and I can tell you, it goes deeper than just looking at a picture. It goes to the very lives of the people you represent. 
   I yield to the gentleman. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DREAM ACT IS AMERICAN NIGHTMARE -- (House of Representatives - October 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I wanted to express those sentiments, but I come to the floor tonight to discuss a different subject matter.     
   The subject that I've chosen to discuss tonight is the Dream Act, and I do so because a vote on cloture is scheduled on the floor of the United States Senate tomorrow sometime, I believe, in the afternoon. 
   The DREAM Act, Mr. Speaker, you will remember is an act that's been pushed for several years here in the United States Congress and also pushed at the State level. What it is about, it is a bill with a wonderful name, and once you read through it and think about the ramifications, it's not such a wonderful bill. It has actually meant the demise of a number of public figures. People who have served in this Congress, people that have served in the State legislatures and people who have aspired to serve in this Congress have found themselves enamored by the wonderful name, the DREAM Act, but also trapped up in and captured in the pitfalls of the reality of what's behind this DREAM Act. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, if you will permit, I will describe what the DREAM Act does, and that is, it provides, let me say it this way, an opportunity for in-state tuition discounts to go to people who are otherwise unlawfully present in the United States, usually younger people that have graduated from high school. It gives them in-state tuition discounts, or allows the States to do so, and then gives them a conditional legal status in the United States provided they enter into college or enter into the uniform services, not always our military, but some type of uniform services. 
   This sounds good over the top of things, but it works out to be this: it defies a current Federal law. In fact, it has to amend a current Federal law, a law that's been defied by at least 10 States, and it's a law that was in the 1996 Immigration Reform Act, sponsored by now-ranking member of the Judiciary Committee, Lamar Smith of Texas. 
   This legislation in 1996, current Federal law, Mr. Speaker, prohibits a State and institutions of higher learning from granting residency in-state tuition discounts, breaks on the costs of the education, to students who are unlawfully present in the United States, that's a nice word for illegal aliens, Mr. Speaker, unless those universities and those States that set that policy grant that same tuition discount to all students who are lawfully present in the United States wheresoever they might reside. 
   So let me just draw an example, being from Iowa. Let's just say, for example, that there is a student that grows up on the east side of the Mississippi River and a resident of Illinois who wants to go to college at Iowa State University. And if Iowa had the DREAM Act as a policy, and they defeated it in the State legislature a couple or 3 years ago, actually let it die in committee as I recall. But if that student who grows up and goes to a high school in Illinois, a resident of Illinois, chooses to go to college at Iowa State, they will pay an out-of-state, nonresident tuition of about $16,000 a year; and by the way, a resident of Iowa will pay about $6,000 a year. So not quite three times as high if you're a nonresident student. 
   And by anecdote, I can tell you that in California the numbers are comparatively about $3,000 a year to go to school at a California institution if you're a resident, and I believe it's about $23,000 a year if you're a nonresident. You pay that kind of premium if you come from out of state to go to school in-state. Each State sets their own policies. These numbers aren't hard; but, conceptually, they're accurate numbers, Mr. Speaker. 
   So the out-of-state student, the nonresident student, pays a premium to go to college at an institution in a State that they're not a resident of. That's been a longstanding practice so that the State can encourage, foster, and subsidize the education of their residents in the hopes that they have highly educated students that will stay at home and grow the economy of the State that pays the taxes to support those institutions of higher learning. 
   But that's a little too convoluted, Mr. Speaker. I'll just say that States want to help their own residents. So they've set these policies, and that's why it costs more money to be an out-of-state student going to school in another State than it does to go to school in your own State, a longstanding practice. 
   The DREAM Act turns that all on its head, and for illegal alien students who have come into the United States in violation of the law, whom if ICE, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, were to be required to deliver this in-state tuition discount, let's call it a voucher, it's not, it's a discount, but if they had to deliver it in the form of check or a voucher and if ICE had to deliver that, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, they would be compelled to pick up that prospective student and send them back to the country from which they came so that they could be legally residing in their home country. 
   That's the law, Mr. Speaker, and the Dream Act turns this on its head. It grants people who are here illegally, all the way up to age 30, if they will enter into a school and start their studies on a 2-year study program or if they will go into the uniform services, not necessarily our armed services, then they get conditional residency or conditional legal status in the United States. And then, if they keep their nose clean, they get a green card which is lawful, permanent residence, and it's about 5 years to citizenship. And the formerly illegal immigrants have access then to all the chain migration tools that anyone else has who comes here legally for those who have respected our laws. 
   Now, that means they can bring in their siblings. It means they can bring  in their children. It means they can bring in their parents, and that whole chain migration can start over and over again. 
   We had a chart that was put together on the chain migration that comes with the policy that's there that's called family reunification, and it looks like about one legal immigrant can bring in about 277 family members by the time you go out through the chain of the family tree. That would also be true for an illegal immigrant who would be granted amnesty under the DREAM Act. 
   So in-state tuition discounts, amnesty for illegal aliens, put this bill, this bill that if the cloture as has been filed and if it successfully passes tomorrow, then the Senate will go to a vote on the DREAM Act. If they do that and the House should take up the same bill and then the President should sign it, you will have illegal aliens who will be sitting in desks in the institutions of higher learning within our States studying, going to college at the expense of the taxpayers and at the expense of the Federal taxpayers because we do appropriate funds that go into these institutions. 
   As you know, Mr. Speaker, there are only so many desks in a classroom. There are only so many slots in our institutions of higher learning, and that's why we have admissions requirements. That's why you apply and you put in your grades and all of the other qualifications that are there, and very tough decisions are sometimes made by these universities to allow people to come in and study there or to cut them out. 
   You will remember some high-profile cases. For example, the affirmative action cases at the University of Michigan and at the University of Michigan Law School. There are only so many desks that are available. Imagine granting an in-state tuition discount to someone who came across the border and into the United States illegally and someone who is getting a $6,000 education, when the student sitting in the desk right next to them is a United States citizen, naturalized or born in the United States, whose mother or father has served perhaps in Iraq or Afghanistan, who has perhaps been killed over there to defend our freedom, and that poor student without a father or a mother has given their life for our freedom is paying out-of-state tuition prices to go to school at their preferred institution, sitting in a desk next to someone who is unlawfully present in the United States and would be deported if it weren't for this DREAM Act that grants them amnesty. 
   Now, that sets up a friction in this society, Mr. Speaker, that's illogical. It's irrational. It rewards the wrong thing, and in the end, it would not be tolerated by the public if they begin to understand what this really means. 
   The Department of Homeland Security, Michael Chertoff's DHS, under this DREAM Act would not be able to go in and use any of the records; and so if they want to protect this society, if they want to go in and apply the law, they can't even look at the records that are there that are part of the data that's compiled to grant this supercitizenship to people who are eligible for deportation. And I say supercitizenship, Mr. Speaker, because this supercitizenship path, by the way, grants more rights, special rights to illegal aliens to go to school in our institutions of higher learning at a tuition discount. 
   For example, if you have a legal alien, someone who has applied for a student visa or has lawful, permanent status, lawful permanent residency here in the United States, a green card, and they're going to school at an out-of-state institution, they have to pay the out-of-state tuition rate. If someone comes in from Korea or Guatemala or let's say Russia, Poland, comes into the United States legally, student visa or under a green card, maybe even in a path to citizenship, and they have a residency in New Jersey, they can't go to school in New York with an in-state tuition discount, and they sure in the world can't go to school in California for $3,000 because they'll be considered an out-of-state resident and they will be. 
   That's the way it is for American citizens, both naturally born and naturalized. That's the way it is for people who have followed and respected and honored our immigration laws, whether they're on a student visa or whether they're here on lawful permanent residency, a green card. They all have to follow the laws of this country, and they all have to pay the going rate that reflects their residency of their State. 
   And consider, Mr. Speaker, if you will, consider the children of military families, whether or not they've lost a parent in this global war on terror. Those children move around a lot, and some of them don't qualify necessarily for the in-state tuition discount maybe anywhere, and they would be paying a premium as a son or a daughter of our military veterans, sitting next to a desk of someone who before this act would be passed today will be unlawfully present in the United States, subject to deportation who would end up getting a discount for the tuition. 
   This is the bill, Mr. Speaker, that the Senate proposes to bring up tomorrow with their cloture vote; and if they vote cloture, and we'll have this debate on the floor of the United States Senate, and you're going to be able to, Mr. Speaker, look across over to the Senate and be able to evaluate the set of values that the United States Senate brings to the table and this set of values that produces supercitizenship, superaccess to citizenship for illegals. 
   I recall some of the debates that we've had here on the floor of this House. Discussions and speeches, I should say, rather than debates; and I recall how easy it is for some of the Members to look at this and conclude, well, this is the DREAM Act, and why would we want to punish kids who are simply here unlawfully? Can't we give them an education, and isn't that a better thing? Yes, if your view is that simplistic, Mr. Speaker, if that's all the view is, isn't it better for the kids that would be beneficiaries of this? The answer is yes. 
   But we could grant in-state tuition discount to every kid in this country, and in my State it would cost several hundred million dollars. The State legislature is not willing to do that. The current law is, if you grant that in-state tuition discount to students who are illegal, then you grant that same discount to everyone in the United States, wherever their residency might be. And so all of those students that are paying out-of-state tuition, that $16,000 in Iowa, would end up getting the $6,000 annual education as opposed to the $16,000 education. A $10,000 premium that's there that's levied against all of those students that come from other places around the country and the world would all be level down to $6,000. 
   They can do that today if they choose, Mr. Speaker; but they will not do that because the boards of regents and the State legislatures across this land don't want to take the financial hit. They don't want to level the premium. They don't want to give this kind of benefit to all American citizens. They don't want to give this kind of benefit to the sons and daughters of our military. They don't want to give this benefit to those who are legally emigrating here into the United States. And they don't want to give this benefit to those who are on a path to citizenship here in the United States provided they're not residents of the institution in question. 
   No, sir, Mr. Speaker. This is all about special right, special treatment for people, for students that are unlawfully here; and the numbers break out to be something like this. A million, more, we don't know. There's not a cap on it, but the best estimates say more than a million; and we know that when you grant benefits, it attracts more people. And there will be people that will come into the United States illegally and present themselves to go to college at a tuition discount, and they will say, oh, yes, I've been here that 5 years or so that the Senate bill requires that I'm here; and by the way, I have these falsified utility bills and rent canceled checks and things of that nature that say that I've been here so I meet the minimum standards. Give me that tuition discount, too. 
   That's the view and the strategy, the special extra citizenship rights that come with it for more than a million people. And we know also, Mr. Speaker, that whenever you open the door up and you count the numbers, the numbers get greater, not smaller. Ronald Reagan said, what you tax you get less of; what you subsidize you get more of.  
   And we are here talking about opening the door to subsidizing significantly a two-thirds discount, a 66 or 67 percent discount, on college tuition for people who are eligible for deportation.     
   I think it's breathtaking how far they are seeking to reach over in the United States Senate. I think the people understand this. I think they understand that this is a super amnesty plan. Whatever your heart says, can we just please engage our brains for a little bit and think about what this means; what it means if we give in-State tuition discounts to people who are unlawfully present in the United States, those who, as I said earlier, if ICE, Immigrations and Customs Enforcement, had to deliver the paperwork that said here is your tuition discount, they would be compelled to pick these students up and send them home again. Some of these students up to the age of 30 are taking advantage of the soft heart of Americans. 
   So extend this on out, what's the motive? Some is driven by the churches, I understand. I appreciate the ministry that they provide. You know, I am a strong proponent and adherent to the values that come from our churches and the good movements in America that come from the pulpit. But if the churches from America believe that we should be providing in-State tuition discounts for those people that the law says need to be sent home, can you please pass the collection plate. Don't come here to Congress and ask that we squeeze that out of the sweat of the taxpayers, because they are the ones in the end that pay the price, and the American citizens that won't have a desk in a classroom, because that desk is already filled by somebody who gets a cheaper rate than they can get. 
   There is only so much room. There are only so many benefits. We can help in the foreign countries better than we can open our doors here for an unlimited amount of people coming in. When we undermine the integrity of our immigrations system, when we do so, we take away the options that are constitutionally bestowed upon this Congress. The Constitution directs us to set the immigration policy here. 
   I recognize that we have a legal and appropriate right to deal with acts like the DREAM Act. We ought to shoot it down. We ought to vote it down. We should defeat it. We should not let it slide its insidious policy across the halls here between the Senate and the House of Representatives. It should not be passed. 
   In fact, the Senate has three times here in the 110th Congress, three times just this year, voted to defeat the DREAM Act because they understood the political repercussions from the American people who understood what amnesty is. This bill grants amnesty. This bill says, it says that if you are here unlawfully, if you are subject to deportation, but if you apply for this DREAM Act and apply to go to school, under a super discount, we will give you conditional lawful status here in the United States. That's amnesty. It's also a path to citizenship, and it opens the door for family reunification, the chain migration that we talk about. It does all of those things. That's amnesty. 
   Amnesty, to define it for the benefit of those who have heard a lot of different definitions, the consistent definition of amnesty that addresses this is the definition that we have used in the Judiciary Committee over and over again. In our debates as we mark up immigration bills, in our hearings as we cross-examine the witnesses on immigration, to grant amnesty is to pardon immigration lawbreakers and reward them with the objective of their crimes, to pardon immigration lawbreakers and reward them with the objectives of their crimes. That's amnesty. That's what the DREAM Act does. That's what's moving, that's what's cooking, that's what is shaking over in the Senate. 
   By the way, the beneficiaries of this act don't have to finish their college education. All they have to do is engage in it for a couple of years. That starts the ball rolling. As I said earlier, they don't have to serve in the military; they just have to serve in the uniformed services. There are many holes in this act. 
   Let me take this, if I can, back to another subject matter that's associated with this, and that's the subject matter that also threatens to find its way into legislation that we expect will be moving in the United States Senate, and that's AgJOBS. AgJOBS is a bill that grants amnesty to people that are unlawfully here that are working in the agriculture industry, people that are picking lettuce, as Senator McCain has so well illustrated. And the AgJOBS bill says if you have been here for 5 years and you apply under this AgJOBS, we will grant you a lawful status here in the United States. That also is amnesty. 
   The AgJOBS bill that looks like it's most likely to emerge in the United States Senate gives a path to citizenship, provides immediate lawful presence here in the United States, a path to citizenship, a reward to immigration lawbreakers, a pardon to immigration lawbreakers and the reward of the objective of their crime, which is, we presume, in most cases their objective was to get jobs here in the United States. 
   I would point out that the low-skilled jobs here in the United States have the highest level of unemployment. It's not the other way around. There is no statistical data that supports that this country is starved for low-skilled workers. 
   When we look at the low-skilled workers, the unemployment rates go over 10 percent, well over 10 percent. American citizens are being bumped from jobs, those jobs. Low-skilled, undereducated American citizens who were born here and naturalized here are being bumped from those jobs by illegal aliens who are taking those jobs cheaper. 
   Of course they can. In fact, they have to, because some of the job market they can't compete in, in the legitimate part of the job market. So they all come in and work cheaper, but on the other hand they don't have the risk of liabilities that go along with steady employment like a citizen does with a regular address who has the obligations to make their contributions to the Federal Government, to the State government and to the local government. 
   It's not to say that many of the illegals don't pay taxes, but here is where it comes to me this way. Someone who presents a Social Security number, that's often someone else's, and sometimes it's just a made-up number. They then have been consistently hired to go to work through a number of different professions; most, I will say, many of the professions. They will often record the maximum number of dependents with the H.R. team that's there for the company so that they get the highest amount of take-home pay and the least amount taken out for their Federal and their State income tax in the States that have income tax, and that's almost all. 
   If you have someone come in, and let's just say they are making $10 an hour, and let's say it's 40 hours a week, and it's simple math, and I am just doing it as I stand here, so that's $400 a week. The withholding that would be there for the State taxes at $400 and for the Federal tax at $400 a week, if you would claim a number of dependents, let's just say six or seven or eight, you are already in the category at that kind of wage where you wouldn't have any withholding for Federal income tax, you wouldn't have any withholding for State income tax. You would still have to pay the payroll tax, Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid. 
   That gets sacrificed to the no-match Social Security file, of which there are hundreds of thousands of no-match Social Security numbers on record. The deposits that go in on those keep growing in the Social Security trust fund. Now, that's a whole different speech, but the sacrifice is made on the part of those illegals who are working on an assumed Social Security number, not their own, obviously. They sacrifice the payroll taxes, Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid because it's cheaper to do that and it's possible to do that. 
   Their take-home pay is their gross earnings minus the payroll tax, Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, 15 percent of that, half of that, and the employer matches the other half, but no withholding for Federal and for State. 
   I get from the parking lot of some the companies that I represent the check stubs from these workers. Americans will pick them up off the parking lot where they get torn off and left in  the wind to blow. I have manila envelopes full of these that have been kind of crinkled up, walked on, a little muddy, a little dusty. They are like an accordion in a manilla envelope. 
   I take those out and look through them. Check stub after check stub, not a dollar withheld for Federal income tax, not a dollar withheld for State income tax. Of course, the payroll tax has been paid. At least the names are not on those check stubs, and I don't recall if there are Social Security numbers on them. That's the kind of thing that's going on all over the country. 
   The taxes that are paid from sales tax, the contributions that go to property tax, yes, there is a tax contribution, but there is a tax evasion that's there, and it's obvious. To turn in no-match Social Security numbers and go to work under those standards is a standard practice. The AgJOBS component of this is amnesty. It does grant a pardon to immigration lawbreakers, and it does reward them with the objective of their crime, and it rewards an industry that's grown more and more dependent upon illegal labor. 
   You know, I understand that when you have got a crop in the field, you need to get that crop out. When you plan for this, you have to also plan for the labor. I also recognize that there has been a growth in the labor-intensive agriculture in this country, because there has been an easy and a steady and a ready supply of cheap, illegal labor to come in and do that work in the fields. So it's inhibited us from developing the machinery that we might otherwise develop to more mechanically plant the crop and harvest the crop and maintain that crop during the growing season and to transport it. 
   If the labor is cheap, you are not going to develop those things, you are not going to do the bioengineering that has been done with the tomato plant that makes it mechanically harvestable. I can make a more clear example that would be something like this. 
   I have a constituent, whom I have great respect for, that is a very modern agriculture producer. I believe he has at least a 16-row planter that he puts the crop in with in my part of the country. I also understand that he has bought land in Brazil where they raise cotton and soybeans. When I ask what kinds of chemicals he uses to control the weeds in the cotton, he says, ``I don't use any.'' I said, ``Well, how can you raise cotton without herbicide?'' 
   Well, he says, ``I have 96 people, each with a hoe, that go down through the rows of cotton that hoe that cotton. When they get down to the other end, they turn around and they come back to the field in a different row.'' Ninety-six people paid $3 a day cultivate that cotton with a hoe. 
   Now, the only thing that has changed in that technique since the dawn of agricultural time was we have a metal hoe instead of perhaps a bone or a wooden hoe. That technology that has been there has been there for hundreds and hundreds of years. It hasn't moved an inch. 
   Same kind of thing down through those rows of cotton, chopping cotton with a hoe. That's what's going on from the same operation where you have a man who is a very modern person with the most modern equipment in the upper Midwest who markets his grain and does his purchases, very, very astute, on the Internet, professional in his field, very well respected, active in the professions that had to do with the ag industry. But when the economics dictate that you can hire 96 people with a hoe for $3 to $4 a day and it's cheaper than putting a machine out in the field where you put a man on the machine and you buy the fuel and provide the repairs and you have to buy some spray in order to kill the weeds in that cotton, when the math works out that stoop labor is cheaper than mechanized labor, that tells you something about what happens when labor is cheap. It slows the growth of our society. It slows the development of our society. It inhibits the development of our technology and puts us in a situation where we actually de-adopt the technology. You park the 16-row planter, that's only figuratively speaking, and you put the people in the field with the hoe. That's literally happening. It's not just happening there; it's happening on thousands and thousands of farms in the areas in the world where labor is cheap. 
   Our idea here in the United States is we don't have enough cheap labor. I would look back through history and challenge anywhere over here on the other side of the aisle to rise and ask if I will yield, I would be happy to yield, if you can give me an example, if you can give me a single example of a society, a culture or a nation that has failed or collapsed due to a lack of cheap labor. I would submit it's the other way around. Societies have been undermined from within because they didn't have enough higher education or technological background to keep up the paces or keep up with the times. 
   If you look at the States that are highly educated and highly skilled. They have the highest income, the highest average income. They have the highest household income. They are the most prosperous people. And this Nation should be about raising the average annual productivity of its people. 
   So one might submit, what are we going to do for the labor, how are we going to harvest, how are we going to harvest that lettuce if we don't have enough people who are willing to go down and pick that lettuce? How are we going to do the celery? How are we doing to go into the peppers, the strawberries, the tomatoes? We have that a little more mechanized now. How do we do all of that? 
   If everyone woke up tomorrow morning in the country where they can legally reside, not ICE doing their job, but if just miraculously that magic wand, poof, caused that to happen where Michael Chertoff didn't have that job any longer of providing the transportation to send people to a legal country, if that happened, what would then happen to the economy of this Nation?     
   And I hear scare stories coming out of the Wall Street Journal, out of Wall Street, out of, I don't know how to describe the words here, kind of a nouveau aristocracy in America that seems to think somehow they have a birthright to cheap labor and a birthright to somebody to take care of their lawn and their garden and their mansions, and that they will raise their children in a gated community and send them off to an Ivy League school, and so they'll never really be burdened by this growth of the lower class that they are promoting, and they think they have a birthright to that. 
   But I would submit this: that's not what America is about, Mr. Speaker. The strength of America has been an ever-broadening middle class, a middle class that's ever been more and more prosperous. We don't want to shrink this middle class. We don't want to suppress their growth and their improvement. We want to broaden the middle class and we want to lift it up. 
   And by the way, we don't want to expand the middle class, Mr. Speaker, from the ranks of the upper middle class. We want to expand the middle class from the ranks of the lower class. But for the first time in the memories of living Americans today, and maybe for the first time in the history of this country, we are seeing the lower class expand, the middle class shrink and the aspirations of middle-class Americans diminish. 
   Now, if we look at young people that grow up in Middle America that decide a college education is not for me, I just want to get my high school degree and go to work at the plant, punch the clock and earn a pretty good wage, maybe earn a living wage, and go home and take care of my family, my kids, play ball with the kids, cut the grass, go fishing, take time off on the weekends and live this life of this American Dream, buy a modest house and pay for it, send the kids to college if they want to go. Does any child that gets that high school degree and doesn't aspire to a higher education have a hope of being able to do those things in today's economy, Mr. Speaker? And I'll argue, it can be done. It's unlikely that it will happen, because the wages of the lower skilled and lower educated have been so suppressed by the ranks of illegals and unskilled lower skilled illegals who have come into this economy. 
   And I'm hearing from the people on Wall Street and in the Wall Street Journal that this country can't survive economically if we don't have that 12 to 20 million people to do this work that ``Americans'' won't do. 
   All work Americans will do, and there's not a job in this country you can't find an  American doing it. Americans are doing all kinds of work in this country. 
   But here's the magnitude, and that is, there are 6.9 million working illegals, by the statistics that are put out by the people that do this analysis. That's 6.9 million out of about 12 million. That's the standard numbers we've been working with. I think it's more than 20 million, but this proportion works out in any case. 
   Out of the 6.9 million working illegals, that's part of, that's 4.7 percent of a work force that is 142 million. So 4.7 percent of 142 million, and if you do the math I think it comes out to 6.9 million. That's how many working illegals we have. Okay. That represents 4.7 percent of the work force. But they're only doing 2.2 percent of the work, Mr. Speaker, because we measure the annual output under the gross domestic product of our workers. 
   And because those who are here unlawfully working in this economy are, on average, lower educated and lower skilled, their production, even though they're 4.7 percent of the work force, is only 2.2 percent of the work, Mr. Speaker. And so if you have a work force that's doing 2.2 percent of the work, and let's just say it's a factory that has 1,000 people in it, everybody working diligently, and that factory does all their work in an 8-hour day, and you went to work as the CEO at 7:30 in the morning, sat down at your desk, and a memo hit your desk that said you're going to lose 2.2 percent of your work force today, they're not showing up. 
   Now, say that's at 7:30, and yet you need to meet your production quota by 5:00 that night when everybody clocks out. They clock in at 8. They clock out at 5. They need to get 1,000 widgets made that day, and you have to figure out how you're going to solve that problem as a CEO when 2.2 percent of your work doesn't show up. And I'll submit, here's the answer. Any CEO can figure this out easily. They'd sit down and do the math and say, well, we've got to get our production up. So people aren't going to show up till 8:00, that's all right. When they get here at 8:00 we're going to let them know that we're going to cut their coffee break in the morning by 5 1/2 minutes. We're going to cut their coffee break in the afternoon by 5 1/2 minutes. That adds up to 11 minutes out of the 8-hour day; 11 minutes out of an 8-hour day is 2.2 percent of the overall day. 
   And so the illegal work force in America, if you look at the United States as one huge macrocompany, and if that work force just stopped producing for that day, you would be losing 2.2 percent of that day's production. If we did all of our work in this country in an 8-hour day instead of a 24-hour day, that's 11 minutes out of 8 hours. And if it's a 24-hour day, you've got about a little over 3 minutes out of each shift is all that it amounts to. 
   I can't be convinced, Mr. Speaker, that this economy would come to a screeching halt if that happened to gradually drift away from us because the administration began gradually enforcing the law. I can't think that it's a cataclysmic event that would be, that would come falling down on this economy. I can't think it would slow us down. I believe, Mr. Speaker that we would recover in a heartbeat from that kind of a transition. 
   And that's presuming, Mr. Speaker, that that 2.2 percent of the work force that's being done by illegal labor is all essential work. And if we look across at some of that work, some people are taking care of lawns. Some garden. Some are cleaning the houses. There's work out there that we could find a way to recover from. Like somebody said to me, oh you want to enforce a law, but who is going to flip your steak? Who's going to cut your grass? Well, Mr. Speaker, I cut my own grass, and I flip most of my own steaks, and if I had to flip every one of my steaks to preserve the rule of law in America, I'd be very happy to do that. 
   That's really the essential pillar here that we're talking about with the immigration issue in the United States, and that is, what are you willing to do to preserve the most essential pillar of American exceptionalism, the rule of law? Are you willing to cut your own grass? Are you willing to flip your own steaks? Are you willing to shorten your coffee break up for a little while, by 5 1/2 minutes, morning and afternoon, or 3 minutes a shift out of a 3-shift day if you're working 24/7? Are you willing to do those things? Would you notice the difference if you didn't? Would the nonessential work in the United States shrink if we didn't have economical illegal labor to do that work? 
   Mr. Speaker, if you bring me 100 people that will work for a dollar an hour, I guarantee you I can figure out a way to make a living with that. I can find a way to put them to work where they're going to return four, five or six or seven or $8 an hour to me. And so the cheaper labor gets, the more demand there is. And yet we have people that are considered otherwise to be wise, economic gurus who seem to, well, I will say just flat 
   advocate that we should set the immigration flow into the United States, legalize all of those who would want to come here, legalize every willing traveler, Mr. Speaker, as long as there's a demand for their labor. 
   And I will submit that the more labor there is, the lower the price will be. The lower the price there is, the more demand there will be. Labor, Mr. Speaker, is a commodity like any other commodity in that the value of it is determined by supply and demand in the marketplace. Labor is a commodity. Corn, beans, gold, oats, crude oil, you name it, Mr. Speaker, you name it, they're all commodities. And the value of those commodities are determined by supply and demand in the marketplace. Corn's up, beans are up. Can't get the cotton out of the field, I heard in the previous Special Order. It's not worth bringing it out I guess if the price is that low, according to Mr. Spratt. But the value of labor will be determined by the supply and demand, what the market will bear. 
   And so if we flood this economy with low-skilled labor, as we have, we will see unemployment rates in the lower-skilled ranks, the lower-skilled jobs go up, as we have. Unemployment rates of over 10 percent in some of the lowest-skilled jobs. Those rates go up. And that shouldn't be a surprise to any of us. 
   But it might be a surprise to some of the elitists who have a different view of this country than I have. I grew up in Middle America, small town and rural America, a place where we understand the value of hard work, a place where our parents, our grandparents, our ancestors, if they were here in this country long enough, goes back always to drive a stake out in the ground and homestead the land and make your living out of that and start your business and grow your community and your family and your churches and work with your neighborhoods and make this place a better place than it was when you came, and earn that with the sweat of your brow, and work hard, but work smart and build for the future generations. 
   That's the roots that I represent from the middle part of America. We respect hard work. We respect honesty. We respect integrity. We respect the values of faith and family. And yet we are sons and daughters of immigrants. And, in fact, I remember walking into a community building in one of the small towns that I represent, and this is a very German community. There were about 400 to 450 people in there for a benefit auction for a friend of mine. And I began to ask the question, how many people in here grew up in a German-speaking home or else their parents did? It was almost everyone in that building, and yet they fly the flag, they are some of the most self-sacrificing patriots this country has produced. They understand these American values and they understand the rule of law. They came here legally. They have great pride that they have adapted themselves to the American society and culture and prospered and handed to their children and their grandchildren the things they dreamed for their children and grandchildren, but in a society that was not just intact with the rule of law with respect for the rule of law, but one that was actually strengthened by their adherence and respect for the rules and for the law. 
   And here we are, in my opinion, the central pillar of American exceptionalism is the rule of law. If we don't respect the laws of this country, then what foundation have we? 
   And I will always make the argument that our rights come from God, and that they're passed through the hands and the minds of our Founding Fathers  who, I believe, were guided, they were guided by God to put down for us the parameters of this free Nation to be a guiding light for the freedom for the world. And who are we to trail in the dust the golden hopes of men if we aren't willing to defend this rule of law, this rule of law that preserves our property rights, our freedom of speech, religion, press, assembly, all of the freedom from double jeopardy and the list of all of those rights that were in the Bill of Rights. Who are we to trail that all in the dust because what, because we have an emotion that overcomes our intellect, because we've severed ourselves from the thing that we've inherited from the Greeks, the age of reason. 
   We've lost our reason and lost our way if we believe that a good name for a bad bill supersedes the rule of law. The DREAM Act is a good name. I wish I'd thought of that. I'd have stuck it on something too, only it would have been a good bill underneath the title. This is not a good bill under the DREAM Act. This is a bill that directly undermines the rule of law. It rewards law breakers, Mr. Speaker, and when we do that, we can't hope to sustain the rule of law in America any longer. If we have 12 million, 20 million people who are granted amnesty, maybe under the DREAM Act it's only a million for starters. That will grow, and the chain migration will grow from that, and your one million could conceivably and I don't think literally it could happen but it could conceivably go out to more than 200 million. 
   That's how the stats map it out. And we know that's pretty unlikely that it would go that far. But if it's one million people going to 2 million or 3 million under the DREAM Act and we grant amnesty there, and then we have the AgJOBS component of this that grants amnesty to people who are here illegally, working illegally for about 1.5 million for starters, and then, we work with this myopic idea that if there's a demand, that must indicate how many we need, even though the more cheap labor you have, the more demand there will be for more cheap and cheaper labor. And it makes a simple economic equation. The unions used to understand this, Mr. Speaker. They used to understand that they wanted a tight labor supply. And so I'll go back to that. 
   But the DREAM Act is a bad bill that grants amnesty for a million or more people that would do the chain migration for their families, attract more, and more would be signed up.     
   By the way, there is no cap on this. There is no deadline. The way this bill is written, applications for in-State tuition discounts, special super citizenship rights for illegal aliens goes on and on. It never ends. It isn't that just the people that are here right now today, but it's the people that would forever apply. So the number clearly is over a million. And 2 million, 3 million, 5 million, we know how these things go. It always gets out of hand. It's 1 1/2 million under AgJOBS, those who have been working illegally in our fields. But that 1 1/2 million is for starters and it goes on and on. And when we get to the full amnesty package that the Senate three times has voted down now and now wants to give us the components of their amnesty plan, their comprehensive amnesty bill, one bitter pill at a time, things that have bad bills with good names, slip them to us one at a time, put them in a package into the Senate and send them over there in a must-pass bill. Plan that strategy, and as this amnesty number grows from a million under the DREAM Act, 1 1/2 million under the AgJOBS piece to the next component and the next component and the next component of amnesty, and we end up granting, as the Senate advocated, a comprehensive amnesty plan to not 6.9 million or 12 million, but everyone who is here illegally right now. That number some say is 12 million. I think it is more than 20 million. We grant amnesty to them, and they will do as those recipients of the 1986 amnesty bill did. They will be the strongest advocates for another amnesty plan. 
   And if you will notice, no one here in the House of Representatives, Mr. Speaker, and no one over across the Rotunda to the United States Senate has said, well, this comprehensive amnesty plan is an amnesty to end all amnesties. They haven't said that. First, they are still in denial about it being amnesty, and yet not one of them will define amnesty unless they have found a way to define it around where their bill is exempted, but it isn't an objective definition. They won't stand up and tell you to grant amnesty is to pardon immigration lawbreakers and reward them with the objective of their crimes. But those 12 or 20 million would be advocating the same way that the 1 million who were to be the recipients of the amnesty to end all amnesties in 1986 that turned out to be more like 3 million who were the recipients of the 1986 amnesty. They were advocates of more amnesty. They say, well, that's been good for me and it's been good for my family, so we need more of that. And all of them who advocate for more amnesty are undermining the rule of law. 
   And they are a smaller number by comparison. It started out by being 1 million. It turned out to be 3 million or more. The 2 million difference was mostly fraud, counterfeit documents, people that came in here and took advantage of the sympathetic nature of the American people. And so with 3 million advocates for amnesty, 2 million of them beneficiaries of fraud, and 1 million were actually the target of the 1986 amnesty bill that Ronald Reagan at least had enough integrity to declare it to be the amnesty bill to end all amnesties, they have been advocates for more amnesty. 
   Imagine what 20 million beneficiaries of an amnesty would be. A mass lobbying group for family reunification, chain migration. Bring in your unlimited number of family members directly in here under that path and then have them all. Not just those who received amnesty but those who were beneficiaries of the chain migration from those who received amnesty. They turn into the tens of millions and perhaps more, maybe more than 100 million and on up who have little respect for the rule of law, who have been rewarded for breaking the law, who have now come to believe that if a law is inconvenient and enough other people don't respect and honor that law, eventually Congress will capitulate and change the law to accommodate your behavior. 
   That is no kind of a Nation to have; not when you have a Nation like this Nation, the unchallenged greatest Nation in the world. We are beneficiaries of the sacrifice and the vision of our Founding Fathers, and we are charged with defending those values and handing this country over to the next generation in better condition than when we found it. Not worse. Not digressing into anarchy where the law is disrespected and where it has no value and no teeth. Not turning us into a class envy society. Not turning us into a society where we are pitted against each other, a society of victimology. Not that. Not a society where we point our finger at people and call them names rather than make an empirical argument. We need to be rational human beings. We're the beneficiaries of the Age of Reason in Greece where they actually built a culture around the idea that they could think rationally and connect their thoughts in a rational fashion and defend the conclusions that they had drawn by the sequence of the deductive reasoning that got them there. That is a foundation for our science, the theorem, the hypotheses, a number of other approaches to Western thought that was founded in the Greek society 2 and 3,000 years ago that found its way across through Europe and had a pretty good stay in France during the Age of Enlightenment. And as the Western civilization, the core of it, the dynamic moving force rolled out from France in the Age of Enlightenment over into the United States and arrived here at a time when we had a continent that was just begging to be settled, full of natural resources, and a free enterprise economy with property rights and low and sometimes no taxation and low and often no regulation, and we had a people that set about the manifest destiny to settle this continent from the Atlantic to the Pacific ocean and did so in record time, in an historical blink of an eye. We were able to do many of those things because we had also learned the talents and the skills and had built within our culture that ability to deductively reason.  
   And today we have people who emote, people who feel. We have college professors who teach their students never say anything except ``I feel'' or you can say ``I believe,'' but if you say ``I think this,'' your thoughts can be challenged, but your feelings cannot. So I feel, and then someone will tell you I feel we should pass the DREAM Act. I feel we should pass AgJOBS because I feel 
   for the beneficiaries of this program. And, by the way, I feel that we need more cheap labor in this country, and I feel that food would be more expensive, and I feel that there is work Americans won't do, and I feel we ought to bring people in here or those who came here in here and legalize them because they will do the work that Americans won't do. So in the end, even though there isn't any data out here that supports my irrational feelings, I just feel this, and therefore you ought to follow my feelings. 
   How can a Nation, Mr. Speaker, how can a Nation meet the challenges of this global, modern 21st Century if we are going to be guided by these feelings that trump rational thought and empirical data? 
   I will submit, Mr. Speaker, that one of the foundations, one of the pillars of American exceptionalism, the central pillar is the rule of law, but one of the pillars is this culture, this unique American culture was the recipient of the work of the Age of Reason from the Greeks and a recipient of the enlightenment from Western Europe and primarily from France that came here at the dawn of the Industrial Revolution with all the natural resources. And we grew this Nation, yes, on a Christian-Judeo foundation, a work ethic, called a Protestant work ethic until they found out that Catholics did pretty well with that work ethic too. We understand some of the things that made this a great Nation. But letting our feelings rule our thoughts is not one of those pillars of American exceptionalism. That is an example of American intellectual weakness, that we can't confront these issues with our minds, with our reason, with our data, because with that data we can see where this can take us. 
   The DREAM Act, the act that grants in-State tuition discount to people who are eligible for deportation. Now, I just cannot rationally get to a conclusion that that is the best way that we can spend taxpayers' money or send a message to the broader society. I believe we need to adhere to the rule of law. I believe we need to stand on the rule of law, and we need to enforce the rule of law. And it needs to be respected by the States, the States like California and Kansas and about eight others who have decided to defy the Federal law and grant in-State tuition discounts to illegals within their State institutions but charge out-of-State tuition premiums to the residents of other States who might want to go to UC Berkeley or the University of Kansas or a number of other schools within those two States and eight other States that are defying Federal law. And we are still taking this through the courts. And the DREAM Act, Mr. Speaker, invalidates all lawsuits that have been brought forward to enforce the Federal law which establishes the requirement that these States grant the same tuition discount to residents of other States that they might to illegal aliens in the desks in their own schools in their own States. 
   AgJOBS, another amnesty plan. AgJOBS says if you worked in this country and worked in agriculture, worked for the preponderance of, and that is my word, not the bill's word, 5 years, we are going to grant you provisional legal status here in the United States. Legal status under the DREAM Act, legal status under the AgJOBS act. You add them up, and by their numbers, that's 2 1/2 million who get amnesty. They won't call it amnesty, obviously, Mr. Speaker. But we know those numbers would be significantly larger. 
   And then when one grants the special status, the special conditional legal residence in the United States to these people, what's the argument to deny it to anyone else? What's the argument to deny a reward of the objective of their crimes to all who have broken immigration laws except perhaps those who are convicted felons and those who have conducted themselves in otherwise abhorrent fashion? 
   This is irrational, Mr. Speaker. The American people often don't understand what this legislation is. That's why there is such a concerted effort to strategize on how we name a bill here in this Congress, how this bill is named, because that is all that people hear is the name of the bill. They don't get to read it. Most Members don't read the legislation that comes through this place. But the public doesn't read the bill, and if they did, they don't really have the opportunity to examine the components of it. So to critique the legislation, they have to rely on somebody else. So the practice is give it a nice sounding name, and then when I do my press conferences and talk to the press, they will ask me, Here's a list of one, two, three, four, five really nice sounding pieces of legislation. You voted against all five of them, Mr. King. Why did you do that? And my answer is it is a nice sounding title, but it is a horrible bill. And you will see that happen often, especially since the gavels have changed hands in here in the 110th Congress, Mr. Speaker. 
   So I reiterate to you and to the people that are overhearing this conversation that we must draw the line. We need to pick up the phones and call the United States Senate again. We need to shut down their telephones in the switchboards in the United States Senate and tell them we don't want a DREAM Act. We need that killed in the United States Senate. We need to cease this amnesty. We need to preserve the central pillar of American exceptionalism, the rule of law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (WATER QUALITY FINANCING ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Louisiana for yielding, and for his leadership and his hard and diligent work in committee. 
   I also compliment the chairman from Minnesota who has a gracious approach to this and generally a reasonable approach to this issue. But this Davis-Bacon issue is something where I meet a philosophical divide. I don't know if there is another Member of this Congress who has live lived under Davis-Bacon, earned Davis-Bacon wages and paid Davis-Bacon wages, but I can tell you I am one who has done both. And it goes back through 28 years of the construction business; 1,400 and some consecutive weeks of tracking wages and paying the thing called ``prevailing wage'' and knowing prevailing wage is not prevailing wage. It is always union scale. And the reason for that is because no one reports the prevailing wage for fear they will be organized to be become a union and they will have to pay a union scale. 
   I have difficulty with this because I hire my people year round. We make sure that they get a good living wage for the full year. We provide health insurance. We provide retirement benefits. And when you pay people a union scale, then you can only plug them on a machine for the hours of running that machine. You can't afford to have them grease it or haul it or fix it.     
   So I know employers that will work 16 hours a day in order to keep the machines supported so their union scale man can climb in the seat of it. This is a distortion of the free enterprise system. 
   I will argue also that this bill has an earmark in it, and this earmark is the mark called Davis-Bacon wages. Now, earmarks go back to when a pig is born you notch his ear so you can track his genetics through the marketing system. Well, this is an earmark into the first generation of money that goes into the revolving fund. Then once that money is in there, it comes back around again and again with a Davis-Bacon earmark in it, and I know Midwesterners really appreciate this argument, but the next generation of pigs, you at least got to earmark him when he is born. 
   This one automatically earmarks every generation of money that rolls through this revolving fund now until the end of perpetuity, and that, Madam Chairman, is a bridge too far. We are not just labeling this Davis-Bacon wage scale. It is Davis-Bacon wage scale in perpetuity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (WATER QUALITY FINANCING ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Louisiana for working so well together on this amendment. 
   Madam Chairman, really all this amendment does is it just stops the expansion of the Davis-Bacon, and it says we are not going to move this Davis-Bacon into a revolving fund. That is what the language that is in the underlying bill does, and this amendment simply strikes out the insertion that applies Davis-Bacon. 
   So what does that really mean is a question that Members need to evaluate when they are thinking about what kinds of services and what kind of work can we get done out there across America. I understand the intensity of the Louisianans here today. They have a lot at stake. That is why we brought this legislation. 
   In the $14 billion cumulative total that is part of this overall bill, I know, from hands-on experience being a contractor who has bid projects both ways, Davis-Bacon and merit shop, and my average number is a 20 percent increase; there are numbers out there higher and lower, but 20 percent, this bill wastes at least $2.8 billion. That could be projects. That could be projects that are going to help the people in this country. 
   That money is at least wasted, but then it goes into the revolving fund, and it pollutes the rest of those dollars that are in there. So if I do the calculation on this, we come up with a number, it will be about $280 billion over time; 20 percent of that is $56 billion. So we are not putting just $2.8 billion here into the waste bin; we are putting $56 billion perhaps into the waste bin, Madam Chair, and it keeps us from being able to get these taxpayers' resources into projects that can really help people, especially the people that so desperately need them. 
   I will tell you from my experience as a contractor who has worked and bid Davis-Bacon projects, I have gone into communities to bid these types of projects and had to do the bid according to the costs that are inflated into them, and had the community look at the overall bid, low bid. And I have been low bid, have had them reject my bid because it was too high; they couldn't afford it. They would pull the bid back, repackage the package without Davis-Bacon, and I could come in there cheaper, as did my competition, the community went without Federal dollars, as this inflated too much. 
   These communities went without Federal dollars because it was too expensive to use the Federal funding. That ought to tell us something. As they went back and they funded it out, they bonded it out themselves. They pulled it out of taxes. Sometimes they go back and raise private dollars because of the overall inflation that is imposed by this kind of policy. This is the one that goes in perpetuity. 
   You mark this revolving fund with this bill. And it isn't just these dollars, it is every single dollar that touches it from this day forward on into the future of the United States until some time comes that this Congress gets a grip, gets a hold of itself and decides we can't afford to be putting this on. 
   I would add also that as you have an employer and an employee, they agree what to work on. I listen to the gentleman, Mr. George Miller, say it will keep them from making enough money to pay their health care. No, it is the other way around. It keeps us from hiring employees in year-round jobs where we provide, as the employer, the health care and retirement benefits because we can only afford to use them under these scales just for the job they have. It is inflationary. It is inefficient. 
   I would ask for a ``yes'' vote on the Baker-King amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (MANNER OF CONDUCTING PROCEEDINGS IN THE 110TH CONGRESS -- (House of Representatives - March 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, we have had I think a very eventful week here this week and accomplished a significant amount and had some intense debates here on the floor of this Congress. In my time here and in anybody's memory here, I don't think anyone remembers a time that there have been three motions to recommit that have actually succeeded and attached that new policy on to the bill that was prepared for final passage here on the floor. That makes it an eventful week. 
   Madam Speaker, I reflect here that at the beginning of the 110th Congress there were a lot of objections to a scoreboard vote board that was kept open when Republicans were in charge for the sake of being able to allow people to change their votes until everyone was satisfied. There were strong and loud and vociferous complaints to keeping that board open when it was the Republicans in charge. 
   I am not here to make a loud, vociferous objection to the Democrats keeping the board open, but I am here to point out that the shoe is on the other foot today, and today this motion to recommit went up on the board, and it had 147 Democrats that voted ``no'' on the motion to recommit. 
   The motion to recommit, what it did was said that no individual who has been issued a transportation worker identification card may board a maritime vessel if the individual has been convicted of or found not guilty by reason of insanity in a civilian or military jurisdiction of any of the following felonies. In other words, nobody is going to be boarding a maritime vessel if they are guilty of these crimes: espionage or conspiracy, sedition or conspiracy to commit sedition, treason,  and a number of other crimes along through the list one can imagine, distribution, manufacture, purchase receipt, dealing with explosives. In other words, terrorists, people who have been identified as terrorists, convicted as terrorists. The motion to recommit said no one will be boarding a maritime vessel that has those things on their record. 
   Upon the first vote that was up there, the peak came out to be 247 Democrats voting against a motion that would block those who have committed those violent crimes, those crimes against this country. Then the board was left open, and as minutes went by, and I didn't watch my watch, but I am going to suspect it was 20 to 25 minutes, I watched Democrats vote their convictions and then began to adjust to their convictions, and 111 Members changed their vote here, getting down from 147 that voted ``no'' to 56 that voted ``no,'' and final passage became 359 to 56 on the passage of the motion to recommit. 
   So I point out that sometimes that criticism that comes when you are in the minority doesn't seem like when the shoe is on the other foot that the rules you claim should apply are the ones that actually apply when you find yourself in a position of making the rules. 
   I would point also out that the circumstance before the Rules Committee, since that word came out of my mouth, Madam Speaker, and in the Rules Committee, we brought rules before, there were rules that were brought before this full Congress and approved for the 110th Congress. This was going to be a 110th Congress with a new majority and a new Speaker and there was going to be sunshine on everything we did. There was going to be a level of integrity in the process that was here. There were great objections to the process we had, and there was going to be a change, a new era in government, which means more openness, more honesty, more reporting. 
   But written into the rule was an exemption for the Rules Committee, so they are not required to report the recorded votes within the Rules Committee. 
   Now, how is it that here we are a more open government, but we are writing in provisions that allow for more secrecy? And that is the fact, Madam Speaker. That is the fact that came before this Congress. That is the fact that many of us voted against on the rules package. That is the amendment that I brought before the Rules Committee a couple of days ago. 
   What is ironic about that is that I have to go and appeal to the same people that want the secrecy and ask them if they will let me have a vote here on the floor about taking away the secrecy they have assigned themselves. Of course, the people that sat in judgment, that assigned themselves the secrecy, said, no, we won't allow a debate on it; we won't allow a vote on it. We are going to maintain the secrecy. And, by the way, it was offensive to them to have anyone raise the issue that they should be required to report the votes of the Rules Committee when there is a recorded vote. 
   So that amendment was denied. The American people were denied a debate. They were denied a vote and denied an opportunity to even judge whether this is a more open process or whether it has become a more closed process. 
   But I think these two instances that I brought up just this week, Madam Speaker, illustrate that the process is not more open, it is not cleaner, it is not with more sunshine on it, and it is not more reflective of the representation here in this Congress. There are other instances as well as I could go on, but I think that suffices to make my point. 
   Madam Speaker, I came here to talk about another issue that has been rolled out in the media yesterday and today, this issue of the supplemental appropriations bill that the President has asked for in order to fund our troops in Iraq and in Afghanistan. 
   The President has made a request so that we can provide adequate materials, supplies, training and equipment and munitions to our military that are on the front lines who put their lives on the line for our freedom. I am pledged to uphold that support for them. But what I see come out, at least with the report of the news with regard to the supplemental, has so many strings attached. This is an unprecedented attempt on the part of Congress to micromanage a shooting war. 
   Our Founding Fathers understood this, and they declared in the Constitution that the President is the Commander in Chief. They didn't write in the Constitution that the President will be presiding over a committee of 435 Members of Congress on the House side and 100 Senators on the Senate side and they shall be a committee that will micromanage the nuances of a war. 
   The Founding Fathers knew that you could not fight a war on consensus, that you can't fight it on majority vote. You have to have a Commander in Chief who is in charge. That was a clear understanding of history and human nature. It was reflected by our Founding Fathers into our Constitution, Madam Speaker. And yet to this day, I don't know how many Members of this Congress even understand how the Constitution controls the things that they do, even though every single one of us takes an oath to this Constitution at the beginning of every Congress. 
   Every 2 years we stand up and we say: ``I pledge to uphold the Constitution of the United States.'' I do so here on the floor. I make that oath on a Bible.     
   Most don't because it is hard to remember to bring the Bible with you on that day, but most do go over and have their picture taken ceremonially with their hand on the Bible. Well, I do both if I've got the time, but the one I don't miss is I bring the Bible to the floor and I take that oath, ``so help me God,'' to uphold this Constitution. 
   And if it is inconvenient to have a provision in the Constitution, we have to live with it until it becomes so inconvenient that we are willing to amend it. But we do not have the authority here in this Congress to amend the Constitution, neither does the Supreme Court and neither does the commander in chief. The people of America have to ratify an amendment to the Constitution. And that is how the Founders saw it because they understood they were not creating a democracy, Madam Speaker. And if anybody is teaching out there in the classes of civics and government that go on all over America in nearly every school in America that we are blessed to be born and live in a democracy, I have to say, Madam Speaker, that is an erroneous lesson to be teaching our young people and to be perpetuating through the adults. And, in fact, a lot of the people in this Congress still believe this is a democracy. 
   Well, when Benjamin Franklin stepped out of the Constitutional Congress he was asked by a lady on the streets, ``What have you produced?'' And his answer was, ``A republic, Madam, if you can keep it.'' And that is what we have. We have a constitutional republic because our Founders understood that if you went to the pure democracy form, and they studied the democracies of the city-states in Greece; in fact, I have been there to see the displays at the National Archives of the pottery that the Greeks had and their method of voting demagogues out of the city and banishing them for 7 years. And some of that system is still within our Greek system on our universities today. 
   The Greeks identified a demagogue as someone who was so skilled with their rhetoric, so moving and passionate in their delivery of their oratorical speeches, that they could move the masses by emotion rather than rationale. So they banished the demagogues from their city-states because it sent them down the path of emotion rather than deductive reasoning. 
   So the Founders understood that we didn't need to have the masses moving by emotion; they understood that the definition of a democracy was two wolves and a sheep taking a vote on what's for dinner. Majority rules; guess who's for dinner? 
   They wrote rights into our Constitution and into the Bill of Rights because they understood human nature, and they knew there had to be protections in place higher than a majority vote, higher than being in the majority. There had to be guaranteed constitutional rights for all citizens in this country on equal standing, drafted in, plugged into the Bill of Rights and ratified by the several States, and now  ratified by all of the States, the 50 States in the Union. Those guarantees must be in place. 
   This Constitution, Madam Speaker, means something. And the language in this Constitution means what it says. The text of this language means what it meant, means what it was understood to be when it was ratified. And if it is inconvenient or if we disagree with the fundamentals, we should amend it. We shouldn't ignore it. 
   This Constitution grants Congress, this body in particular I am speaking to, but also the Senate as well, only two authorities when it comes to war; number one is, first, I will state it again, the President is the commander in chief of all Armed Services. We didn't have an Air Force then, but that is implied. So that is the standard, Madam Speaker. 
   And then the Constitution grants Congress two different authorities when it comes to war: Number one, the authority to declare war. That has happened several times in our history, but the last time it happened was in the beginning of World War II. 
   The second constitutional authority Congress has is to fund the war. But what we are seeing come out of the Democrat side of this is to micromanage the war in such a way that they can squeeze down and constrict the commander in chief's authority and responsibility to conduct war. And that can only end in disaster for our troops and disaster for the destiny of our country. 
   But we do not have that authority to micromanage. We can appropriate to the Department of Defense. We can appropriate to the Department of Homeland Security and some other lesser departments within the fringes. But we don't have the authority to micromanage. 
   I am going to go further, Madam Speaker, and take this position, that if this Congress should decide that building a bunch of ICBM missiles and placing them in places, say, across the polar ice cap are a high priority and they appropriated the money for that and we found out that we were in a shooting war that flared up maybe in six different places in the world and we needed to spend that money for armored Humvees and bullet-proof vests and more M-4 machine guns or more surveillance equipment, whatever it might be; if this Congress refused to change that appropriation, I am taking the position that the President has the authority, because he is commander in chief at a time of war, to do an interdepartmental transfer and prioritize those dollars within the Department of Defense in the place that he sees fit because he is the commander in chief. Anything less than that, Madam Speaker, is something that ties the hands of the commander in chief and the feet and puts our military at risk. That is the effort that is coming from the other side of the aisle here. And it is one that will eventually debilitate this country. This debate has encouraged our enemies and has diminished our ability to succeed. 
   And so if we look back at history, I don't believe there has been any time in history that this constitutional principle that I have laid out here has been challenged and been taken to court. And even then, I wonder how the Supreme Court would come down on this. But there were times back in 1973, 1974 and 1975, at least 2 of those 3 years, if not 3 of those 3 years, when Congress put strings on Department of Defense appropriations. And those strings said this, that none of these funds and any funds heretofore having been appropriated, meaning any money that is out there in the pipeline now, none of these funds can be spent in either North Vietnam, South Vietnam, Laos or Cambodia. And it shall not be used in the skies over those four countries or offshore from those four countries. So none of our appropriations money could be used there by the restrictions that were put on by this Congress, the micromanagement of this Congress. 
   But the fact was that we pulled our troops out of Vietnam at that point. It wasn't the President's intent to go back into Vietnam, but it was his intent to provide air cover. So when that message went, North Vietnam probably didn't have C-SPAN then, but they watch what goes on in this Congress, just like our enemies do in Iraq and the Middle East today; they understood that Congress had lost its will to conduct war in Vietnam. And they began to marshal their forces and provide the munitions and the armament necessary to mount the invasion, which they did in the spring of 1975. And in the aftermath of Congress micromanaging a nonshooting war, 3 million people died in the South China Sea, in 
   South Vietnam and in the countries of Laos and Cambodia, 3 million people, because Congress injected themselves into a decision that was made by the commander in chief. 
   But the commander in chief didn't challenge that. The commander in chief at the time, the initial one was President Nixon, who was very weak politically. And then, of course, the appointed, not elected, President Ford, whom I revere, neither challenged that restriction put on by Congress. 
   So I don't believe we have a constitutional challenge that has taken place because President Ford and President Nixon did not challenge the Congress when they began to tie the strings in Vietnam. 
   This Congress is preparing to tie the strings. And I am saying to the public, Madam Speaker, and to the President, my position is I am going to uphold this Constitution. I'm going to defend the President's right to do interdepartmental transfers of funds if they think they are going to tie strings to this. I think the President can ignore any conditions that this House puts on him if the money is appropriated at DOD because that is his responsibility as commander in chief, not the responsibility of this Congress, not the Pelosi Congress, not the Murtha Congress, but the President of the United States is the commander in chief. 
   In fact, I believe the last gentleman I mentioned would like to be the commander in chief. And given some of the legislation that he has drafted and introduced in this Congress, I think he would probably squeal had he been the commander in chief and someone tried to put the strings on him that he has tried to put on the White House. 
   And I would add that, in the Department of Defense appropriations bill last year, the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Murtha) was able to slip language into that appropriations bill that would prohibit any basing agreements from being negotiated in Iraq. He stated that it was for permanent bases, but the language said any bases. And there was misinformation that was brought to this floor. And my amendment that tried to strip that out of the appropriations bill failed here on this floor, which compelled me to go to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and ask for a letter to support my amendment, which we put to the conference committee. And that letter then was enough to get that stripped out of the language. 
   That is the kind of thing that is going on; that would have us already moving out of Iraq if General Pace hadn't agreed with me and made that request of the conference committee. And so the conference report came without that language, and we were able to keep our operations going in Iraq. It was that close in a Republican majority. And now you see what's coming, Madam Speaker, under this new majority. 
   And here are some of the bullet points that come up on this subject that would come from the majority side of the aisle. This new appropriations, the strings that would be tied, the strings that I contend are unconstitutional, one would be, the legislation prohibits the deployment of troops who are not fully mission capable. Now, who would decide that? A definition apparently that is identified by the majority here in this Congress. 
   There are a list of other conditions in this, but I also recognize that the gentleman from Arizona, who has a heart full of appreciation for our troops and the Constitution, is on the floor. I would be very happy to yield so much time as he may consume, Mr. Shadegg. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (MANNER OF CONDUCTING PROCEEDINGS IN THE 110TH CONGRESS -- (House of Representatives - March 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Shadegg), and I pick up a point that Mr. Shadegg made, and that is about what the enemy thinks and what happens if we should pull out of the central battlefield in this war on terror called Iraq. 
   So I am going to just make this transitional point here, Madam Speaker, and that is, I have a date written down here. July 11, 2004, I was sitting in a hotel in Kuwait City waiting to go into Iraq the next day, and I turned on al Jazeera TV, and I saw the face of this rather notorious person right here, Moqtada al Sadr, and he was speaking in Arabic with the English crawler going on underneath, and as I read what he said, and I heard it sparingly in Arabic, he said, If we keep attacking Americans, they will leave Iraq the same way they left Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left Mogadishu. Moqtada al Sadr who has now absconded to Iran to be with his cronies who have been funding him, supporting him, sending him munitions and training him. 
   But the philosophy that he has voiced here is a philosophy that echoes back in the ghosts of Vietnam and through Lebanon and Mogadishu, and that is, do our enemies take great heart in believing that we do not have the will to complete a military task if it gets difficult or if it gets long? 
   So the voice of Moqtada al Sadr saying Americans will leave Iraq the same way they left Vietnam, Lebanon and Mogadishu will be replaced should we not succeed in Iraq, and I will point out that Prime Minister Maliki stood right back here at this microphone some months ago, and he said, if this war against terrorism cannot be won in Iraq, it cannot be won anywhere. 
   Our enemy will know that. We must succeed there on that battleground. The al Qaeda is in Iraq. They have come there to fight us. They have generated a few more out of the Sunnis there in particular; but if we pulled out of Iraq the way the other side would like to see that happen, then the battlefield does transfer to Afghanistan, and that battlefield in Afghanistan will be inspired by a failure to achieve victory in Iraq. 
   I would point out that the next poster you will see on this floor after such a time, if this Congress acts in a disgraceful fashion, then the next poster you will see will not be the face of Moqtada al Sadr, Mr. Speaker, but it will be the face of Osama bin Laden himself and the quote will not be quite like this. It will be close, though. It will read like this: If we keep attacking Americans, they will leave Afghanistan the same way they left Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left Mogadishu and the same way they left Iraq. 
   That is what is coming if this side of the aisle does not suck it up and understand that far more American lives are at risk if we do not have the will and the resolve to succeed. Playing politics with the lives of American soldiers and playing politics with the destiny of America just simply cannot be tolerated. 
   This supplemental appropriations bill, as it is announced to be written, and we do not have a draft to work with yet, is, I believe, an unconstitutional micromanaging of the powers of the Commander in Chief of the United States. 
   I wish to support and reiterate the statements made by the gentleman from Arizona when he said with the tick of a clock, the fight is over. Can you imagine, Madam Speaker, that a war would be like a prize fight and you would go for 10 rounds, or if it is a championship battle, maybe 15 rounds, could be 12, and when the round is over, the bell rings and the fight stops, and we come home on a date certain, at a time certain, without succeeding in a victory? That is an amazing and astonishing thing, and anyone who is involved in a guerrilla warfare of an insurgency against the United States will know all they have got to do is go underground, hole up and wait; when American soldiers are finally gone, whether lifted off of the U.S. embassy or whether they happen to be deployed out of their troop ships or flown out in jet airliners, they would know that then the enemy would have that battlefield to themselves. 
   The point made also by Mr. Shadegg, we came in uninvited, we cannot leave uninvited. That is a profound statement that should be in the conscience of all of us, and we have made progress. We have made significant progress. 
   The attitude of the Iraqi people I thought was good 3 years ago or even 4 years ago, and I do understand that their attitude is betting better and better, but they are also nervous that we are not going to stick it out. 
   But if we should leave, there is no doubt things will get worse; and the worse that I would describe, Madam Speaker, is I do not think this is necessarily the worst-case scenario, but I will describe this as a likely-case scenario, and that is, right now Iran is fighting a proxy war against the United States. They are doing so in Iraq. They have been funding and supporting two large Shia militia. One of them would be Sadr's militia and the other one is the Badr Brigade. They have been supporting anyone who will increase the chaos and the disorder in Iraq. They have not only been funding them and supporting them and they have been putting munitions into Iraq that are used against American service personnel and against Iraqi military security personnel. That has gone on for at least 2 years that I know of and it has gone on intensively and finally came out in the press a little over a month ago.     
   Iran is fighting a proxy war against the United States, and those who attack the United States and provide munitions and funding and training have a sovereign sanctuary to retreat to and hide in, and that is Iran. 
   I know of no example in history where you have had an insurgency that was funded by a sovereign sanctuary nation that has been protected from the assault of the troops that have been attacked out of that nation, and that prevailing side has always been the side that had the sanctuary, not the side that gave sanctuary. 
   I am opposed to giving sanctuary in Iran to them so they can fight their proxy war against the United States. If we have enemies, they cannot be hiding behind national boundaries. We must regard them as enemies wherever they are. But if we do not prevail in Iraq, and the pervasive influence that has taken place there by the Shi'a from Iran is imposed in the southern part of Iraq and also in Baghdad as well, which it surely could be controlled by the Shi'as, that would allow Iran in the aftermath with their hegemony to control 70 to 80 percent of the Iraqi oil. 
   If Ahmadinejad has control of 70 to 80 percent of the Iraqi oil, and about two-thirds of the real estate in Iraq and ultimately maybe more than that, his coffers get flushed full of cash. As the cash flows out of his treasure chest, he starts putting more and more money into his war chest, and that war chest becomes more and more nuclear capable, accelerating their development of nuclear weapons, weapons, in the plural, multiple plural, and means to deliver them, which means more and more missiles to put nuclear warheads on them, not just to threaten Israel, which Ahmadinejad has sworn to annihilate. 
   He has also sworn to defeat and annihilate the United States. Those missiles would not be constrained to just having the range to drop into Tel Aviv, but they would have soon the range to get into Western Europe and, not much later than that, the range to reach the United States. 
   This is a nation that has a suicidal tendency and a belief that they are called upon by Allah to annihilate the infidels. Infidels happen to be anyone who doesn't agree with them on their religion. 
   So think, Madam Speaker, in terms of a Middle East that is controlled by Ahmadinejad and the mullahs in Iran. They set on the Strait of Hormuz. If they have that valve, they will have  the valve at the Strait of Hormuz to control what goes in and what goes out, which amounts to 42.6 percent of the world's exportable oil supply. That is easily enough to make them filthy rich and easily enough to affect the world's economy if they crank that valve down and shut down just a valve, it is a figurative valve, shutting down the oil exports going out of the Strait of Hormuz. They would control all of the Middle East if this happens. Then this Nation would go into a recession, probably a depression. 
   If that happens, that reflects back to China, because China also is out there on the world market doing all that they can for the oil that they need, and they are dependent on the U.S. economy. The United States and China would be the big losers. Russia and Iran would be the big winners. Iran for obvious reasons; Russia because they have a lot of oil. 
   That explains why Putin has taken a hostile position against the United States. He wants things to go that direction in Iraq. He wants us out of there. He wants the Iranians to take over in Iraq because that helps his world dominance and that helps his power base. That is an equation that I don't believe is considered by the retreatniks that are writing these line items of micromanagement into this supplemental appropriations bill, this, I believe, it will come out to be an unconstitutional supplemental appropriations bill. 
   I would be happy to recognize the gentleman from Arizona. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (MANNER OF CONDUCTING PROCEEDINGS IN THE 110TH CONGRESS -- (House of Representatives - March 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Arizona. I reflect upon the last time we fought this enemy, and the first time that I know that we fought this enemy goes clear back into the early part of the 1500s, and I pick it up in a book called, ``Christian Slaves, Muslim Masters,'' when the Corsairs, Barbary pirates, would set upon the merchant marines that were sailing around the Mediterranean; they also raided the coastlines from Greece all the way up along the coast, Italy, France, Spain, up to England and as far north as Iceland. 
   Iceland itself was the furthest, most northerly venture on the part of the Barbary pirates, who pressed 400 Icelanders into slavery, took them back to the Barbary Coast on the north shore of Africa and put them into slavery, where they died faster than any of the other slaves. But all together the history totals up about 1.25 million Christian slaves pressed into slavery by the Barbary pirates. This was just in the 1500s. 
   Now, the first shooting war we got into in the United States began right after the end of the violence in the Revolutionary War. We finished, the battle was over, and 1783, here in this country, we had the protection of the French flag for our merchant marine at that time on the high seas; 1784, we lost the protection of the French flag when we had won our independence. Between that period of time and our Constitution being ratified in 1789, the protection of the French flag left us. 
   So, from 1783 was when hostilities ended with Great Britain; 1784, the Barbary pirates fell upon our merchant marine ships, pressed our soldiers into slavery, and we had to build a Marine Corps and a Navy to go on and take on the Barbary pirates who were negotiated with in 1786 by Thomas Jefferson and by Ben Franklin and by John Adams. Jefferson brought a report back to this Congress, and that report is clearly a document within the history of this Congress. 
   It can be found in a report that is delivered over here in the Library of Congress, where he said that he had tried to negotiate with the Muslim leader at  the time, and he asked: Why do you attack us? Why do you kill us? We have no quarrel with you. We have had a peaceful posture with regard to you, and yet your whole regime sets upon us in the high seas. 
   The answer he got back was, Allah commands that we do this. He commands that we attack and kill you, or press you into slavery until you either pay homage or adopt and convert to our religion. 
   That report comes back from Thomas Jefferson. Those are the same circumstances that we are in today, just a few, couple 300-plus years down the line. Jefferson's analysis was, how do you negotiate with people who have a religious belief that they need to kill you in order to be saved? In fact, in Jefferson's report, the world of Islam over there, the Barbary pirates at the time said that anyone who was killed attacking the infidels would surely go to paradise. 
   He understood them. That is why he bought a Koran, was to do his oppositional research. That is what we are up against today, the same thing. If we don't understand our enemy, if we don't understand nosce hostem, which is a Latin term for, ``know my enemy,'' came out of Romans, then we have the kind of appropriations bill that would have all these strings tied in such a way as the President can only deploy unprepared troops, and then it sets up some standards for that. If we need to defend ourselves, we couldn't do so unless we met this standard that is created by the other side of the aisle. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (MANNER OF CONDUCTING PROCEEDINGS IN THE 110TH CONGRESS -- (House of Representatives - March 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I also recognize you are a fair-minded Mississippian, and I appreciate that and the tone and the history that you have added. And perhaps on your walk across here, you might not have heard my remarks with regard to the Vietnam era and the constraints that were put on the appropriations bill then. And so I don't think that we are in disagreement on the precedence or the history. We may or may not be in disagreement on the constitutional aspects. 
   And what I have done is taken a position that Congress does not have the authority to micromanage. And I was not here to put up a vote on that, but you can expect, Madam Speaker, how I would have voted had that been the case. 
   But these micromanaging efforts, and this is a newspaper publishing information, would appear to require that the Iraqi government meet key security, political, and economic benchmarks that were established by the President in the State of the Union Address on January 10. Now, those were goals at that time. I don't speak for the commander in chief on that, but I know now that we are well passed January 10. On January 10, there wasn't a plan that had been unfolded like the plan we are working on today. And you have to be flexible in a time of war. And to go back and pull things out of his speech and say, and we are going to tie you to that on appropriations, I think that does two things: I don't think that is prudent, and I don't think it is constitutional. 
   Another one would be the Iraqi failure to meet these benchmarks would mean the beginning of U.S. withdrawal from Iraq and will restrict economic aid to the Iraqis. Another case, Madam Speaker, of setting up a standard here in Congress, and the slow wheels of this Congress can creep along. And then we put something in place that would prohibit us, prohibit the commander in chief from being flexible in time of war. 
   It goes on. Another standard would be, if progress toward meeting any key benchmark is not met by July 1, 2007; we will hardly get any legislation passed before then; a redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq begins immediately and must be completed within 180 days. 
   Madam Speaker, progress towards meeting benchmarks, that is a gray line, not a bright line but a grey one. Well, we are making progress every single day, but I don't think the people that are drafting this legislation would agree that we are making progress every single day. So, therefore, by their judgment of this standard, that would mean that we begin pulling out July 1, 2007, just a few months from now, and may be even retroactive, because I don't think this bill can get out of this Congress by then. 
   Another one says, if key benchmarks are not met October 1, 2007, a redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq begins immediately and must be completed within 180 days. 
   It goes on and on. And, again, this is a huge, huge reach for Congress to get involved in the micromanagement of a war. There have always been consequences. 
   And, by the way, the gentleman from Mississippi that raised the issue of the appropriations bill in the early 1990s Congress that said, get out of Somalia, if you look at the aftermath of that, I think it would have been far better for the United States had we stayed and had we completed the mission there; it would be perhaps done by now and not a place where there are terrorists pulling into that. There has been a long, drawn out war in that area since that period of time that has washed back and forth across that countryside. And part of it is because we lacked resolve. And part of that is shown right here in the words of Muqtada al-Sadr. 
   So, Madam Speaker, I would bring up one more point, and that would be, we have made progress there. And the progress that we have made, some of it is measured by construction projects that are completed. There has been a lot that has been said about things not getting done in Iraq, and I would submit that I have been over there a number of times but twice specifically to review the construction projects that have been initiated and in progress and completed. And this shows in green the projects that are completed. Along that map, it is easy to see that we have got most of our work done. We are nearing the end really of all of them. The green are completed. The yellow is under construction, and the red are those that are planned but not started. Tiny little numbers under the red here. Big numbers under the green. Significantly smaller numbers than those that are under construction. 
   We have gotten a lot of projects completed, Madam Speaker, and we are almost to that point where we can wrap up this work that started here in Iraq, that started out with $18.4 billion. We put supplemental funding in there. And then a final number, I can't speak to factually here on the floor, although it is significantly larger than $18.4 billion. There has been a lot of infrastructure that has been picked up to speed. If you look around here on the edge, these are all border forts along the edge on the border between Iran and Iraq. That is also the case down along here with Jordan and Syria. We have fortified the border and put people there on the outposts. That has done a lot to slow things down, but it has not done enough to keep it from coming out of Iran. 
   I have been to a good number of these projects. Some would be sewer projects in Sadr City, Baghdad, itself that began about 3 years ago. And under the  first armored division controlling that, General Carelli, who is now the Corps commander there. I have been up here to the Kirkuk area where the mother of all generators sits there producing electricity 24 hours a day, every day, a gas-fired generator plant. There is work done all over this area. We have gone back and reflooded the swamps where the swamp Arabs lived that were dried up and drained by Saddam Hussein. They have moved back into that area. About 8,000 square miles were drained; we got about 4,000 square miles put back in. We have done a tremendous amount to improve the environment there in Iraq, and 80 percent of the violence is confined to Baghdad and 30 miles within Baghdad. So why would we be concerned that we can't control this or we can't manage this? 
   I would point out that, in 1944, on December 22 of 1944, the 101st airborne was surrounded at Bastogne, and the Nazis demanded that the 101st surrender. And General McCollum's response was a retort, it was ``Nuts.'' The Germans didn't know how to understand that, Madam Speaker. But what it meant was: We are staying here. We have got you right where we want you. You are all around us. We can hit you. We can fire and hit you in any direction. 
   And the Americans underwent a relentless artillery barrage, but the response, the rhetoric, ``Nuts'' prevailed. And General Patton's Army was able to relieve the 101st Airborne. The 101st today contends they didn't need the help; they would have liked to just whip the Germans themselves. 
   That was the spirit we had in this country and our fighting personnel in December of 1944. When they were surrounded, and it was hopeless, they said, ``Nuts.'' Now we have Baghdad surrounded and we have Baghdad penetrated, and all we have to do is maintain stability there, and we have people talking about surrender. And I think they are nuts, Madam Speaker, to talk about surrender with all of this investment in blood and 
   treasure, to be so close to success and victory here, and to be waffling and go wobbly at a time when you need a spine and you need courage. 
   To bring this supplemental appropriations bill with all of these strings attached that are designed to appease the 75 or 76 members of the Out of Iraq Caucus and the left-winged liberals here in this Congress, not because of their leadership on war but because of their position on other issues, I think, is a disservice to the American people. The American people know how important this is. And the fathers and mothers, the widows and widowers, and sons and daughters of those who have given their lives for Iraqi freedom and a safer future for Americans must be respected and honored. 
   As the father of a son who was killed over there, a Gold Star father from California said to me, and his name was John, he said, ``It is different now. You can't pull out of there now, because that soil is sanctified by the blood of our children. You must stick with this battle and succeed and not lose your will.'' 
   As a major from Kentucky said to me the last time I was there, ``We appreciate your prayers. We have everything we need to do what we have to do. We have all of the weapons we need and the clothing and the food and the training that we need, and all of the support that we need. So when you pray for us, pray for the American people. Pray that the American people understand this enemy that we are up against. Pray that the American people don't lose their resolve. We will not lose ours.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (VIEW FROM AN O'BRIEN COUNTY, IOWA, SOLDIER -- (House of Representatives - March 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor tonight to read into the Record an editorial that was published in the O'Brien County Newsletter, O'Brien County, Iowa. It is from Sean P. O'Brien, First Lieutenant, Field Artillery, United States Army and Purple Heart recipient. 
   It reads like this: ``There are few things that a professional military officer can attribute to editorial statements. However, I would like to share some of the ideas that more than represent what our tour of duty in Afghanistan meant to me. This ethos is to help put these personal feelings, which all soldiers have, into a tangible rallying point. 
   ``I am an American soldier. I am a warrior and a member of a team. I serve the people of the United States and live the Army values. I will always place the mission first, I will never accept defeat, I will never quit, I will never leave a fallen comrade.     
   ``I am a disciplined, physically and mentally tough trained and proficient warrior in my tasks and drills. I always maintain my arms, my equipment, and myself. I am an expert and I am a professional. I stand ready to deploy, engage, and destroy the enemies of the United States of America in close combat. I am a guardian of freedom and the American way of life. I am an American soldier. 
   ``This is called the Warrior Ethos. Every soldier can recite it. It means everything. I cringe when I say this aloud. These words have such weight. As far as service, I understand now. When I shake hands with a veteran, there is a silent conversation that takes place that transcends all words. You can never understand this without experiencing it. 
   ``I cannot deny the power of facing the enemies of truth with truth. The population was the center of gravity, and we systemically engaged in separating these bullies from the population, usually by simply not leaving. The stability created by our presence allowed civil leadership to stop focusing on being brutalized and start focusing on fostering a better way of life for the people, education, medical aid, and commerce. When the population realized that these ideas were worth having, they would generally take on the responsibility of denying safe havens for the bad guys. 
   ``These people, the Afghans, are just like you and me. They want their children to have a safe place to grow. They  are extremely thankful that we are making the sacrifice we are for their nation. It is very humbling to be told that by a common villager. These people have known war as a way of life for 2,000 years. That being said, it is important to know that in every town there is an elder that stated, `The U.S. was just different. You are respectful and you want to help us.' 
   ``If you have ever held the ideal of compassion for your neighbor, then it is easy to understand that Afghanistan and her people are well worth the sacrifice. I am thankful to have been a part of a stronger future for Afghanistan.'' 
   And here he says some complimentary things about me which I will leave from my presentation but leave in the printed Record and conclude with: 
   ``As I said before, our efforts in this region are worth it. I encourage all to take a longer view. The compassion and the patience of the American servicemember make up a large part of their sense of duty. This is a fight between good and evil.'' Sean P. O'Brien, First Lieutenant, Field Artillery, United States Army, Purple Heart Recipient. 
   Mr. Speaker, I respectfully enter this into the Record. 
   For: O'Brien County Republican Newsletter, Iowa 
   There are few things that a professional military officer can attribute to editorial statements; however, I would like to share some of the ideas that more than represent what my tour of duty in Afghanistan meant to me. This ``ethos'' is to help put these personal feelings--which all soldiers have--into a tangible rallying point. 
   I am an American Soldier. 
   I am a Warrior and a member of a team. I serve the people of the United States and live the Army Values. 
   I will always place the mission first. 
   I will never accept defeat. 
   I will never quit. 
   I will never leave a fallen comrade. 
   I am disciplined, physically and mentally tough, trained and proficient in my warrior tasks and drills. I always maintain my arms, my equipment and myself. 
   I am an expert and I am a professional. 
   I stand ready to deploy, engage, and destroy the enemies of the United States of America in close combat. 
   I am a guardian of freedom and the American way of life. 
   I am an American Soldier. 
   This is called the Warrior Ethos. Every soldier can recite it. It means everything. 
   I cringe when I say this aloud. Those words have such weight. As far as service, I understand now. When I shake hands with a veteran, there is a silent conversation that takes place that transcends all words. You can never understand this without experiencing it. 
   I cannot deny the power of facing the enemies of truth with truth. The population was the center of gravity, and we systematically engaged in separating these bullies from the population; usually by simply not leaving. 
   The stability created by our presence allowed civil leadership to stop focusing on being brutalized and start focusing on fostering a better way of life for the people; education, medical aid, commerce. When the population realized that these ideas were worth having, they would generally take on the responsibility of denying safe-havens for the bad guys. 
   Those people (the Afghans) are just like you and me. They want their children to have a safe place to grow. They are extremely thankful that we are making the sacrifice we are for their nation. It is very humbling to be told that by a common villager. 
   These people have known war as a way of life for 2,000 years. That being said, it is important to know that in every town, there was an elder that stated: 
   ``The U.S. was just different, you are respectful and you want to help us''. If you have ever held the ideal of compassion for your neighbor, then it is easy to understand that Afghanistan and her people are well worth the sacrifice. I am thankful to have been a part of a stronger future for Afghanistan. 
   I was honored by the personal efforts of 5th District Congressman Steve King. He actively followed our efforts and through personal correspondence offered his support. I enjoy the fact that there is adequate moral ``top cover'' that actively engages in seeking the truth. Thank you Steve, you are as much a patriot as I ever hope to be. 
   As I said before, our efforts in this region are worth it. I encourage all to take a longer view. The compassion and the patience of the American Service Member make up a large part of their sense of Duty. This is a fight between good and evil. 
   Sean P. O'Brien, 1st Lieutenant, Field Artillery, U.S. Army, Purple Heart Recipient. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE REST OF THE STORY WITH REGARD TO THE DEMOCRATS' 100 HOURS -- (House of Representatives - January 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, as always, I am profoundly pleased and honored to have the privilege to address you on the floor of the House of Representatives here in the United States Congress. 
   I have had the interesting observation here as I listened to the speakers that come from the other side of the aisle that there is another story, the rest of the story is out there, and a number of things need to be discussed, and one of them is what did we actually do here in the first 100 hours, as was referenced by at least three of the speakers. 
   In the first 100 hours, the point was made that they kept all of their promises that they would keep within the first 100 hours. We are going to disagree as to how we define that and what the results of it were, and I think it is appropriate in this democratic process that we have that is framed under this constitutional republic that we are, that we talk about and have open dialogue and debate. And that was one of the casualties, I would point out, Mr. Speaker, to this accelerated 100-hour process. 
   The 100-hour promise was something that sounded good politically. It had a nice ring to it. The bell tolled 100 hours, so therefore the image of accomplishing these things for America was going to get done in 100 hours. 
   Well, 100 hours can be counted a lot of different ways, and some people would have thought that at midnight, December 31, when you heard the band strike up Auld Lang Syne, then the 100 hours would begin and this harder working than ever Congress and more ethical than ever Congress and more open and more democratic than ever Congress was going to go to work, and in the first 4 days and 4 hours would accomplish these things. 
   No, I did not actually make that point either, Mr. Speaker. I think it is appropriate for us to have a real legitimate method of keeping track of the 100 hours. If that is going to be the one  promise that is sacrosanct, to accomplish these six things in the first 100 hours, then a legitimate clock is a good way to measure that. 
   So I put up a legitimate clock and kept track of the first 100 hours. And I am going to make this concession at this point, Mr. Speaker, that these six bills, H.R. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, were passed off the floor of this Congress within the first 100 hours of a legitimate clock. 
   My legitimate clock, and I am going to post this up here for the benefit of the people who are observing this process on the floor, Mr. Speaker, I would point out that a legitimate clock would be a clock that calculated from the moment we gavel in, the gavel in in the morning, the opening prayer, the pledge, and off into this process of floor action, until we gavel out in the evening; set your stop watch, click it on in the morning when the gavel gavels us in, shut it off in the evening when we gavel out, and then keep track of the hours. 
   If the 100 hours is sacrosanct, if all of the other promises were subordinated to this one, 100-hour promise trumps all, then let's watch that clock closely, because everybody is eager to get to an open process in this Congress. 
   And I point out also, Mr. Speaker, this first 100 hours has not been an open process. There has not been a legitimate hearing. There has not been a legitimate subcommittee meeting. There hasn't been a legitimate full committee meeting. There hasn't been an amendment accepted. There have been requests to offer amendments. There hasn't been an amendment that has been considered in this Congress. And there has not been a legitimate Rules Committee process that would set the parameters as to what amendments might be considered on this floor, how this debate might move forward. 
   So the open dialogue and debate, especially my sadness goes out to the freshmen who haven't had a voice in this process. That has all been subordinated to this 100-hour promise, get these things done in the first 100 hours and then give us a little break, Mr. Cooper from Tennessee says. Cut us a little slack on that one. We are going to get around to be an open process. We are going to get around to be a more fair, a more Democratic Congress than we have been. 
   Well, there is nothing that can be done about it, so I am going to take the gentleman from Tennessee at his word, and many other gentlemen and gentleladies from across the majority party, including the Speaker, at her word. Now, there are some reasons not to take her at her word, but I am going to take her at her word on this 100 hours. 
   So the clock has now ticked, Mr. Speaker, and I have had the stopwatch on it all along, from gavel in the 110th Congress to gavel out, a real legitimate means of checking the time, and it turns out to be this. Real clock, 100 hours ticked over at 11:44 a.m. today Eastern Standard Time. That was when the 100 hours was up. I would have liked to have heard a bell or whistle or maybe a cannon go off that says now, let's deploy out to our hearings and committee rooms and subcommittee rooms and let's start to consider bills and amendments and let's start having an open debate process and let's start to bring the brains of all of the people that have been elected by the 300 million Americans to bear here so that we can use the resources of the knowledge and the information base from all of our districts to improve legislation. Because if you don't do that, then there is this thing that always shows up in legislation called unintended consequences. 
   One of the unintended consequences has emerged here easily, and that was the unintended consequence of the political price, at least, that had to be paid for exempting American Samoa from the minimum wage. $3.26 an hour is something that has been labeled sweatshop labor by many people on the other side of the aisle as they demagogued the issue when they were advocating for an increase in the minimum wage. But when it came time to actually put it into play, there was an exemption for American Samoa. 
   I happen to have a soft spot in my heart for American Samoa. My father spent some time there 60-some years ago during the Second World War and spoke fondly of American Samoans, the people, their heart, their happy spirit, and I appreciate the gentleman who represents American Samoa here on the floor of Congress. But that was an unintended consequence, I believe, that they had to pay politically, because we didn't have an open committee process. 
   But the real 100 hours clicked over at 11:44 a.m. Now we are at about 102 hours, as I check this clock, Mr. Speaker. But the odd part of it is that there is real time, and then there is Pelosi time, Mr. Speaker. And her clock has only clicked over to 42 hours as of 11:44 this morning. I don't know if she shut it off or not. I don't know how they are actually keeping hours. 
   We have been checking with her hours on a regular basis throughout the work here in this 110th Congress to try to understand what their rationale is for when they turn their clock on and when they turn their clock off. And they refuse to give us a single criteria of what that measure might be. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, I can only conclude that this 100-hour clock was if things got bogged down here, was going to have to be a clock that would run out of time when the six pieces of legislation, H.R. 1 through 5, were passed, if they needed to stretch it that far, and that the rules could be changed along the way and when the clock was clicked on and off. I have tried my best to divine the rationale that only gets you to 42 hours, when we have gaveled in and gaveled out now to about 102 hours. 
   But I do know this: This is going to be the hardest working Congress in history. That was a point also, Mr. Speaker, and at least a harder working Congress than the 109th. And you are going to measure that by being here more days. We are going to do 5 days instead of 2 or 3 days. Actually, I am thankful, Mr. Speaker, because I wanted to do 5 days here.     
   I would like to do 5 or 6 days here, and I would like to do it for 2 or 3 weeks in a row, hard and intense. I want Members in this town so that I can network with Members of Congress and that my staff can network with their staff and we can get things done. 
   I will point out that the individual Members are far more representative of their district if they have access to other Members of Congress and more days to carry on that kind of network and dialogue and debate and deliberation and information sharing than if there is only going to be a gavel in here for 2 days or perhaps for three. No matter how busy we are back in the district Members of Congress are more effective when they have longer periods of time here, and I would submit give us some time, Mr. Speaker, to go back to the district so that we do not lose touch with the soul of the people in our district. 
   We have got to have the feel of the rhythm. We have got to know what the economy is doing. We have got to know the rhythm of the issues that come up. We have got to have town meetings so that people can stand up and have their voice represented here in Washington. 
   So I am glad we are here more time, but the way it is calculated out by the Pelosi clock is this hardest working Congress may be hardest one in history, actually has only by the Pelosi clock worked 4.2 hours a day. Now from an administration that ran on a campaign of harder working, these are days that we have gaveled in. This is not any kind of stretch. We were here for 10, 11 days actually pounding this out of actually being in session, Pelosi clock only clicks over 4.2 hours. That is not a lot of time, and there are not too many folks in my district that can work 4.2 hours a day on a 5-day week or a 2-day week or a 7-day week and still feed their family. 
   So what is the measure going to be? I have said often the people in the district need to measure this by going to the polls. 
   But what got accomplished in these 100 hours that are, gavel in to gavel out, real clock or the 42 hours of Pelosi time, what got accomplished? Six pieces of legislation. She met that goal within a legitimate clock. Should have just had a legitimate clock. It all would have looked even better, but here is the cost to the country as this points out. 
   This is my infinity piece, Mr. Speaker, in that we cannot quite measure this cost to the country because it has  gone on too far and it has been too much. 
   H.R. 1, cost to the taxpayers of about $6 billion, and this is the cost of some of the changes that were passed that were the 9/11 commission's recommendation, not the promise of all of the changes recommended, but some of the changes recommended, and most of this is the additional cost of examining every piece of freight that comes in from overseas. But it does not include the recommendation of the 9/11 Commission to set up a committee that is going to bring all of our homeland security appropriations process under one set of scrutiny. That was a recommendation, too, of the 9/11 Commission. That one was ignored. 
   So all of the recommendations? No. That was a promise. The reality was spend more money, $6 billion, on something that is right now impossible to achieve, and we have set up a system that has done a very good job to inspect these freight-sealed containers in foreign ports before they are loaded on ships so we know what is coming here. 
   Second item, H.R. 2 was the minimum wage passage. 25.8 million small business owners in America who create three out of every four new jobs are now being told you are going to have to give a $2.10 raise to all of your employees, and I have been an employer for over 28 years. 
   I have met payroll for over 1,400 consecutive weeks. I have never paid anybody minimum wage, but I met the payroll, and I know this, that we pay on merit. So we have different levels of our wages depending upon the job they do and the level of their efficiency and their proficiency within the job. But my lowest person on the totem level, the one who is entry-level wages, if I give him a $2.00 an hour raise or a $2.10 an hour raise, I guarantee you every employee is lined up outside my office wanting their wages to go up $2 an hour, too, all the way up to the top of the chain, including everybody but the CEO who has to then take it out of whatever your net profits are. 
   So you make a decision. Do I have as many people? Do I go buy a machine to replace some of these laborers? I am going to be innovative here. I cannot afford to give this raise to everybody because I cannot compete with my competition and sometimes my competition is illegal labor which makes it all the harder because there is not going to be a limitation on wages paid to illegal workers. 25.8 million small businesses punished in that. 
   Meanwhile, the representative from American Samoa stands over here at this microphone within the last hour and a half and makes the argument that the economy in American Samoa cannot sustain the minimum wage. Now, why is it that Democrats can understand supply and demand and the empirical rule of supply and demand in minimum wage law that if you raise wages it will cost jobs? Why is it they can understand it when they have got it in a microcosm of American Samoa, about 60,000 people there, but they cannot understand it when it is infused out across an economy of the United States of America that is 300 million people? You take it out of that 300 million people and take it over here and say here is what happens in American Samoa, what is the impact? The impact is 5,000 more jobs lost in American Samoa by some allegations. Could understand that in a microcosm, but not in a broader sense of the overall economy. 
   That is a scary thing to think about people in charge that do not understand the basic elements of free enterprise and supply and demand and the market system. 
   H.R. 3 forces taxpayers to pay up to $135 million to fund research that takes innocent human lives, the embryonic stem cell research mandate. Right now there is no prohibition in America against doing embryonic stem cell research with private dollars or with public dollars of any kind out there. We just were not going to appropriate your Federal tax dollars to do this. So, Mr. Speaker, I believe it is immoral to compel taxpayers to fund scientific operation that ends innocent human life for the sake of someplace down the road 50 years speculating that someone's life would be improved. 
   There is not a sound basis for this science. This turned into a political argument. It is not a scientific debate. This has already been lost by that side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, long ago, within the last year or two, with more mountains of real scientific evidence building up that cord blood stem cell research, or that also amniotic stem cell research, much of that far more promising. If embryonic stem cell research had merit, it would attract private investment dollars. It is not. That is why they have got to come here. They have turned it into a political argument, not a scientific argument and refuse to debate the science of it. That is the cost of $135 million to taxpayers that will be spent to take innocent human life. 
   I have, Mr. Speaker, held those little snowflake babies in my arm. I looked Sam and Ben in the eye and I looked David in the eye here a year ago, giggly, laughing, bubbly little children that were for 9 years frozen, and now they are happy, human lives that are enriching the lives of everyone around them. Parents who could not have children are now parents of real children they nurture and love. These are also adoptable embryos. 
   Next, H.R. 4, Part D, the prescription drug that commands the Federal Government to negotiate the value of prescription drugs. There is nothing government can do to improve Part D that was passed here a couple or 3 years ago. The cost of that has gone down. It was projected to be $43 billion a year on average. Now, it is down to $30 billion a year on average. We would have never passed a Medicare policy without including prescription drugs if we had anything more than aspirin so awful back in 1965, but because there has been profit in the prescription drug industry, we now have a broad array of innovative new drugs that save thousands and thousands of American lives and improve the American lives. That is because of research and development that has been invested. 
   This will shut down some of the research and development, and it is a mandate that puts the Federal Government in the business of these negotiations. The Federal Government does a lousy job of that. I mean, look at the price of hammers and toilet seats. You can look for the same kind of thing to be what you get with prescription drugs. Only research and development slows 
   down, gets shut down, and that means the progress in health is diminished. 
   H.R. 5, cost to taxpayers, $7.1 billion, and it will not help 84 million Americans with current student loans. $7.1 billion. But that $7.1 billion translates into higher tuition rates, Mr. Speaker, higher costs for education. When I have high school students who will say to me in an auditorium what are you going to do to lower my tuition costs, I ask them, what are you doing to shop for the best bang for your tuition dollar? Are you looking at the cost of the richest institution versus the private school versus the community college? Are you paying attention to take some college courses while you are in high school so you can shorten up that window of time to get your 4-year degree? A lot of them will look at me and say, well, I never thought of that; I never thought I had to be the invisible hand of the consumer when I went to college. 
   It never occurs to them they can have more to say about the cost of tuition increase if they are smart consumers of that education and higher education. So this will raise the price of tuition, and ultimately, it does not help the problem. It makes it worse because everybody will pay more tuition, and some, a few, a small few will get a short break for a narrow window that looks to me like it is about 6 months over a 6-year period of time. 
   H.R. 6 increases our dependence on Middle Eastern oil and hurts families and seniors with higher energy prices. We finally after years of struggle, Mr. Speaker, last year marginally opened up some of our drilling offshore in the 181 area down off of the Florida panhandle coast. We have 406 trillion cubic feet of natural gas on the outer continental shelf known reserve. That is just the stuff we know, and we have not been able to drill and explore to the fashion we need to. 
   We have a lot of oil on the outer continental shelf as well. The political barrier to going into that natural resource has been foreboding because there is an environmental political caucus over here that if anything comes up and they say, oh, that is a green issue, their brain shuts off, the  curtains come down over their eyeballs. You cannot talk to them anymore because it is a green issue, and they are going to vote green. 
   For example, a lot of them belief that ANWR is this pristine, arctic wilderness that somehow or another if we go up there and drill an environmentally friendly well will be destroyed forever and the tourism dollars for the Eskimos would never show up. Well, truthfully, and they know they have to live there, tourism is never going to be their salvation. What if we drilled an environmentally friendly well in ANWR of Alaska and no one came there to see it, then my question is, like when a tree falls in the forest, if no one hears a noise, did it make a sound? Well, if you drill an environmentally friendly well in ANWR and no one looks at it, did it damage the scenery? Not if nobody's looking, Mr. Speaker. 
   But even if someone is looking, even if thousands are looking, no, it does not damage the scenery. I have challenged the greenies on this side of the aisle. We can fly you over the north slope of Alaska today and challenge you to point out the oil fields. I can fly you over them at 4,000 feet, and you can look down there, and unless somebody is giving you a crib sheet, you are never going to know it because these are not derricks sticking up in the sky. These are not pump jacks pumping oil out of the ground, leaking oil and spilling it into the soil, that idea of the old wildcat days you see in the movies from 80 years ago in Texas. 
   No, these are well casings that have submersible pumps in them. You do not even see their collector pipes that go on off over to their refinery. This is as an environmentally friendly as it gets. We need to open up all of these resources, and instead, this energy initiative that passed here, H.R. 6, cuts down on the amount of energy available to Americans that can do no other, and it changes the deal, Mr. Speaker. It changes the deal. 
   Where I come from, if you are going to put your capital on the line, a deal has to be a deal. When you look somebody in the eye, whether or not you shake their hand and you say I will do that for X money, that is a deal. We buy cattle out of the window of the pickup on main street of our towns, two or three pot loads of cattle. Yeah, that is fine, I will take these because I trust you. You keep your word; you will bring me what I want. 
   We should do the same thing out of this Congress, but the system that is set up out there and the conditions by which some of the findings that are off in the gulf coast, and I am thinking of Chevron that has that field, appears to be something that will increase U.S. domestic oil supply by 50 percent, when that finding is opened up, those kind of deals now are no longer a deal with this piece of legislation because it directs a renegotiation of those leases to punish the very people that are producing the supply of oil that is driving down the price, that has taken us from $75 a barrel down to $53 a barrel. The more that is on the market, the lower the price gets. 
   Now a deal is not a deal out there in the gulf coast, Mr. Speaker. A deal gets changed, and H.R. 6 says to government, go force, I say this force, renegotiation of those leases because the hook in that is that if you do not renegotiate then you will not be eligible for new leases in areas that might be the most massive oil find in the history of America.     
   This is debilitating, and the argument was made a little bit ago that they have reduced the dependence on foreign oil. Good night, Mr. Speaker. It couldn't be any more off than 180 degrees by our measure. It has increased our dependency on Middle Eastern oil and it has reduced our availability of oil and gas onto the domestic market, when we can be pumping it out right between us and Hugo Chavez. It is going to slow down that development. 
   And that is just some of the things on my mind as this 100 hours concludes. I hope the Speaker keeps her promise now and we can come back to work, I think on Monday, and we can gavel in here, and some of these freshmen can have a voice in this process. Not a single freshman has introduced a single amendment. They have not had a bit of impact on one word of all of this legislation that has come through. No freshman has changed one word in anything that has been passed in these first real 100 hours or the 42 hours by the Pelosi clock. 
   I know there is a lot in the gentleman from New Mexico, and I am very interested in hearing it emerge here on the floor of this Congress, Mr. Speaker. So I would be very pleased to yield so much time as he may consume to the gentleman from New Mexico. And I would point out that we are splitting the time between now and 2:00. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE REST OF THE STORY WITH REGARD TO THE DEMOCRATS' 100 HOURS -- (House of Representatives - January 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from New Mexico for bringing his expertise to the floor. I listened with fascination to the Russian narrative. That is one I wasn't aware of. I look forward to looking into that in further detail in the future. 
   I see we have some freshmen who have come to the floor, apparently poised to proceed with a Special Order over the next 60 minutes. I trust this is in a great celebration of the first 100 hours and the accomplishment of the 100 hours now being in the Congressional Record, and you are here to celebrate you are finally going to have a voice in this process. Maybe next week one of you can offer an amendment and go to a subcommittee meeting and go to a hearing or do a markup, and you can get into the Congressional Record some of the things you promised your voters you were going to do. 
   I have to believe you didn't think you would be muzzled for the first 100 hours, and you thought there would be a process for you to be allowed to offer amendments, engage in debate, go to subcommittee and committee meetings, and maybe even go before the Rules Committee and make a request and have it granted that you could bring your pet issue to this floor of Congress and actually accomplish the things that you pledged you would do. 
   If any of you have had any of that voice up to this point, I think it would be interesting to hear that. I suspect, no, you are full of frustration, quietly, and now we are going to hear your voices, full throated, maybe in the next hour, hopefully next week. Pelosi time only says 42 hours. I am not sure if you are going to give that chance. 
   Please make that request so we can go to real-time. Congratulations, you got it all done in the first real 100 hours. You didn't need Pelosi time. I want to hear your voice in the amendment process. Welcome to Congress. 
   Mr. Speaker, I appreciate this great honor to speak to you this afternoon. I also thank the gentleman from New Mexico. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word for the purpose of a colloquy. 
   I raise the issue today of Storm Lake, Iowa. It happens to be one of the southerly most glacial lakes in the country, and it's the shallowest one that we have. It has been under a process of removal of that silt for water quality and for environmental reasons. We've done a great job of protecting the siltation in the entire watershed area. There's always ongoing work there, and it's never perfect. But this is a project that has been engaged in with local money, and that means private money, city money, county money, State money and Federal. It's a five-way partnership that has been working here, and we have 700,000 yards of silt to go. 
   I direct my inquiry to Chairman Dicks. I requested funds to address this challenge through the EPA's EPM account. It is my understanding, Mr. Chairman, that these projects have not been earmarked at this time for that particular account. 
   Would that be a correct assumption? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Chair, the amendment that I offer here today is an amendment that reaches out and directs $100 million to the National Parks Service for the purpose of putting up barriers on our border. This comes from one of my multiple trips down to the region where I sat and talked with a number of the park officers and visited the border parks that we have. And I can take you down through the pieces of this argument, but I think the centerpiece of it was addressed by Mr. Bishop of Utah, when he talked about one-third of the Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument being set aside off limits to American citizens, to American tourists because it has been so inundated by illegals and by drug smugglers and drug traffickers and litter that when I asked to go to that area, they said it's not safe, we don't have the personnel to take you. So it's essential that we protect these national treasures that we have, these national parks and national monuments. 
   I want to reflect upon an example here, Madam Chair, and that is this poster that I have. This shows the entrance to the lesser long-nosed bat cave. It's one of four maternal bat caves in the United States. And this is an endangered species. This is a location where illegals used to go in and hole up. And their constant presence there drove the bats out. The 4,000 bats that lived here were driven to other places. They found $75,000 in their budget and volunteer labor and went to build and construct this barrier around the bat cave to keep the illegals out. The bats returned, thankfully. But we have other species, and we have this precious area. 
   And if I can reflect back, Madam Chair, just upon my notes with a meeting with the director of one of our national parks on the border. First, he said we were concerned about disease, hoof and mouth disease, for example, as I am. But from 1978 to 1984, there wasn't much of a problem with illegal traffic. By 1989, activity had picked up. By 1999, 13 miles of fence were stolen. By the year 2002, ``everything went haywire.'' The numbers increased dramatically, 20 to 25 cars at any one time abandoned, litter all over the parks, 20,000 pounds of drugs recovered just on that refuge alone. And his question is not, what are you going to give me? But what can I cut in order to save these national parks? 
   So I've made a recommendation on what to cut, Madam Chair, and it reaches out into three different areas to come up with $100 million so that we can protect these national parks along our border from this traffic. When it gets so bad that the litter is so bad that we won't let Americans drive by on the road and look, when it gets so bad that a Member of Congress can't get an escort with enough armed personnel to go down into one-third of the Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, the location where Park Officer Chris Eggle was killed in the line of duty in order to intercept a drug smuggler across the border, I call upon this Congress, Madam Chair, to do something. And the director of this park said to me, a year or two or five ago, I would have said don't build a fence, don't build a wall, I don't want that mark across my monument. Today I say, that's what will preserve the rest of it. 
   So I think that makes my strongest argument. We need to find the funds to protect our precious national resources. There should be not one square foot of a national park that an American citizen is off limits to because we can't protect it from infiltrators that come from across the border to smuggle drugs and commit crimes. 
   So I would urge adoption of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (MOTION TO ADJOURN -- (House of Representatives - January 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Virginia for yielding. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 6 for a whole series of reasons. The gentleman addressed Vladimir Putin, who just nationalized $20 billion worth of Shell Oil Company's investment. You get a sense of what we have when you have those countries taking over the private investment. 
   I, for one, don't object to profits that go into companies like Exxon, Chevron, Shell, companies that take their profits and reinvest them back into research and development and exploration. That is why oil went from $75 a barrel down to $53 a barrel, and the trend is on back down. 
   This bill sends it the other way. I happen to represent Iowa, and Iowa produced 26 percent of the ethanol in the United States of America. That is number one of the States in the United States. We have a Nation that eclipsed Brazil in ethanol production. We have over $1 billion in private capital investment just in my congressional district for the 2006 construction season for renewable energies. 
   That tells me that research and development is coming in the private sector. They are producing enzymes in the private sector. They will catch up, and they will take care of the cellulosic ethanol. The government does a poor job of investing those dollars.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition of H.R. 6, the CLEAN Energy Act. We need a balanced energy policy in this country. This bill hurts agriculture and renewable fuels, small petroleum companies and well as the energy sector. This bill that affects every man, woman and child in America was not even given committee consideration. I guess an iron fisted rule from the Democrats is what we have come to expect. 
   Mr. Speaker, the liquid hydrocarbon sector supplies more then 99 percent of fuel used by Americans for transportation and operation of businesses. They produce the diesel fuel used by farmers in my district to run their tractors and combines. These are tractors and combines that plant and harvest our food in America. Natural gas is also the major cost in Nitrogen fertilizer farmers in my district use to grow corn. Corn, Mr. Speaker, is the major feedstock for ethanol in this country followed only by natural gas. This bill will hurt America's farmers by making them pay more for fuel to grow food and more for fertilizer to grow more ethanol. One last point, asphalt is made from petroleum. Asphalt is used for roads. Roads are used to transport grain to market and children to school. 
   I wonder if the Democrats realize they will be putting additional strain on local and State governments, the largest buyers of asphalt, who will then have to raise taxes to cover their cost. To recap, this bill raises operational costs of farming in my district by making fuel and fertilizer more expensive. In addition, farmers will get hit by increased taxes from their local and country governments.  
   While recovering royalties from the 98-99 lease issue seems like a politically friendly catch phrase, I would like to make two points on this issue. Recently, Russia forced Shell to hand over a $20 billion project. The Democrat plan to force producers to renegotiate their lease royalties or be barred from future leases is blackmail of American oil companies. This blackmail stems from a mistake from a Democrat administration. Maybe the Democrats are taking a page from Putin's energy policy playbook. They make American petroleum companies fear blackmail on two continents. 
   Have the Democrats given any consideration to what this legislation will do to small business? Large companies are somewhat cushioned against these types of blows. Small independent oil producers are not. 
   If they are forced into bankruptcy or mergers, all the Democrats have done is to consolidate petroleum production into fewer hands. 
   Right now, America is importing a large sum of petroleum from unstable countries. By importing this petroleum, America is enriching her enemies. Importing oil is a fact of life right now. Since I have been in Congress, I have been saying that we need to produce more BTU's here in America. Section 345 of the 2005 Energy bill contained incentives for petroleum producers to venture into deep water. In September 2006 Chevron discovered an oil field 270 miles south-west of New Orleans. This field is projected to increase America's proven reserves by 50 percent. I don't know if Chevron took advantage of Section 345 but it sure would make it easier to convince the accountants of the need to head to deep water. H.R. 6 repeals section 345. The test-well that Chevron had to drill to find this new field cost them $100 million. 
   The Democrats will no doubt point out the revenues reported in the media as justification for this legislation. I'm curious if the Democrats will acknowledge that the media has reported the gross revenue of oil companies. Not the net profits, but the gross receipts. 
   As a former small business owner, I wish to remind my Democrat colleagues about simple economics about how to calculate how much profit is made. The GROSS revenue are profits before bills are paid. Once the bills are paid, the net revenues of oil companies are very much in line with other industries as stated by Congressman COLE earlier today. 
   Some of the debt that oil companies pay is to shareholders. With the recent run-up in oil prices, oil companies have been a profitable sector to invest. When Democrat's take a bite out of the oil companies, they are taking a bite out of 401(k) plans, retirement plans and pension funds. Any tax increase on oil companies will hurt retirees and stockholders. Right now over seventeen million people rely on those funds for their retirement security. 
   I realize that this bill contains a section that will use royalty money for renewable research. Yet, there is no provision that would prevent this account from being raided for other projects. Most of my colleagues know that Iowa is not only a consumer of energy, but a producer of energy. The Fifth District of Iowa is an energy export center, exporting ethanol and biodiesel all across this Nation. Rest assured the American consumer is driving renewable demand. It is also driving research. Ethanol is good to invest in. Ethanol companies realize that more investment means more money. Ethanol companies also realize that more ethanol means more money for investors. In order to maximize ethanol production companies are doing research to increase the yield of ethanol from feedstock. Rural investors raise money for new ethanol plants in days. Mr. Speaker, if the Democrats want research to happen for renewable energy, then clear the way of burdensome regulations. 
   Mr. Speaker as I conclude, I wish to reiterate, H.R. 6 sounds good, but it will do nothing but drive up energy prices for the American consumer. The American consumer, who drives to work, drives kids to wrestling practice, the independent truck driver driving more miles to make ends meet. It will make it harder for the American consumer living on a fixed income to make ends meet. I ask my colleagues to join with the American consumer and oppose H.R. 6, the CLEAN Energy Act of 2007.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentlelady for yielding this time, and I appreciate very much the privilege to address you, Mr. Speaker, and the message that is coming, at least from our side of the aisle. 
   Mr. Speaker, I take us back to how do we identify this enemy that we are fighting? So I looked back through some of the history. In 1783, we made peace with Great Britain. The Revolutionary War, for combat purposes, was over. 1784, American merchant marines were being attacked in the Mediterranean by Barbary pirates. 
   In 1786, two diplomats, Thomas Jefferson and John Adams, went over there to meet with them, and their idea was, we will be able to talk them into peace. Well, they talked to them all right, and the representative of the Barbary pirates, Mr. Sidi Haji Abdul Rahman Adja, responded to them, and this is in the Congressional Record from Thomas Jefferson's report. 
   He asked him, why do you fight us, why do you attack us, why do you kill us? We have done nothing hostile towards you. His answer was, It is founded on the laws of our Prophet. It was written in the Koran. All nations who should not have acknowledged their authority were sinners, that it was their right and duty to make war upon them wherever they could be found and to make slaves of all they could not take as prisoners, and that every Muslim who should be slain in battle was sure to go to Paradise. 
   I take you back to today. We call our marines leathernecks. The reason for that is they wore a heavy leather collar to diminish the odds that they would be beheaded by this enemy who has, to this day, at least fairly recently, is still beheading marines. That is how this started. 
   Now, we are in a war. Von Clauswitz wrote that the object of war is to destroy the enemy's will and ability to conduct war. That means take away their munitions, take care of their armies, destroy them if you can. But in the end, whatever you might do doesn't break their will. You have to destroy their will. There is nothing going on on this side of the aisle that is diminishing the will of our enemy. 
   I will tell you, they will interpret it as encouraging the will of the enemy. I would point out this quote from Moqtada al Sadr. I heard this over al Jazeera TV when I was in the Middle East, actually in Kuwait City, waiting to go into Iraq the following morning, June 11, 2004. He said, ``If we keep attacking Americans, they will leave Iraq the same way they left Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left Mogadishu.'' 
   June 11. Where does he get this from? Well, he gets part of it from General Jeaps' book in Vietnam, the successful general there. They understand, as I heard to my own shock and sorrow, a World War II veteran said to me on one of the days we were honoring him, We haven't really won a war since World War II. 
   Think about what that means. Think about what that means to our enemies who are encouraged by this kind of debate and this kind of behavior. We must have the resolve. I point out also our casualties. We have lost 2,534 brave, patriotic Americans in hostile action. We have lost 591 to accidents within that theater. 
   The loss in American lives as a price to be ready between Desert Storm 1 and the beginnings of Operation Iraqi Freedom, that 10 years, was a little over 5,000, averaging 505 a year. There is a price to be ready, and they pay that price. Those lost lives are every bit as precious to us. 
   I listened to the debate over on this side of the aisle. A brave American, former admiral from Pennsylvania, stated that he believes his job now is to come in and help manage a successful conclusion to the war. 
   Well, I want to compliment Judge Louie Gohmert, who had the urge from the bench, to legislate from the bench, and realized that his constitutional responsibility, if he wants to legislate, is to run for Congress. So now we have Representative Gohmert in Congress actually legislating instead of legislating from the bench. 
   I would submit my question to the gentleman from Pennsylvania: Do you really think your job is to come here and micromanage the war? Do you really think that is constitutional? Regardless of that question, do you think it is wise? 
   How would you like it if Congress made a decision that you really only needed one destroyer in your task force, or you get along without the submarine or maybe you only needed half the supplies on your supply ship?     
   That would be micromanagement that I think he would raise a powerful objection to. And so I would point out that here on the floor of this Congress when we had Nouri al-Maliki, the Prime Minister of Iraq, speaking from that very podium behind me, July 26, 2006, a short half a year ago, he said, ``The fate of our country and yours is tied. Should democracy be allowed to fail in Iraq and terror permitted to triumph, then the war on terror will never be won elsewhere.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (WHAT IS GOOD FOR AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the privilege and the honor of being recognized to address you on the floor of the House of the United States House of Representatives, the people's House, this people's House and this new day, this new dawn that was pledged to come to this 110th Congress. 
   As you may or may not know, Mr. Speaker, I spend many hours here on the floor in these Special Orders and in debate on bills and in 1-minutes and in 5-minutes as we engage in this dialogue and raise the issue of what is good for America.     
   One of the very important things about determining what's good for America is to have a process for America that is conducive to the right result, and the right result in most cases, we will agree, I believe, would be the will of the people: the will of the people properly informed, the will of people properly educated, and the will of the people that have access through the first amendment rights to all the information and all the knowledge possible. 
   But, then, I would point out that we do not live in a democracy. As much as I have said about the reflection of the voice or the people here in the people's House, each one of us does have an obligation to listen carefully and attentively to our constituents, to the people in this country, and not just confined within our districts, but to listen to the Nation as a whole and focus on the interests of our district. But sometimes we have to put the Nation ahead of, sometimes, the will of our district. 
   But this is a constitutional Republic that we serve in, not a democracy. I point out that our Founding Fathers had a significant concern, and I will say even a literal fear of democracies. 
   On one of my earlier trips out here to Washington, DC, quite some years ago, I visited the National Archives on my first visit. As I waited in line to go around and be able to stand there and gaze upon the Declaration of Independence, upon the Constitution, upon the Bill of Rights in their original form, the original documents that our Founding Fathers placed their hands to and pledged their lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor, as I waited to view that for the first time, on display at the National Archives was a display of Greek artifacts. 
   The Greek artifacts that had come from 2- to 3,000 years ago in the era where the closest thing that there has been to a pure democracy from the standpoint of the Greek city-states, where of-age males would gather together, and they would debate; they would debate the issues of the day. They had a number of things they put in place for stopgap. One of the things they found out was, you will recognize the term ``demagogue.'' 
   ``Demagogue'' is a term that we use occasionally in our vernacular, perhaps here on the floor reluctantly, but also throughout our dialogue across the country. There is not a lot of history on demagogues. It is hard to Google demagogue and to become an expert, to look under amazon.com and to come up with real books that are written on real facts that identify demagogues in the Greek era. They are almost nonexistent in this Nation's literature, at least so far as I have been able to identify. 
   But what the Founders knew and what young Americans growing up today and, really, all of its citizens should have an understanding of is that in that purer form of democracy in the Greek-city state, they had Greek demagogues who had such an oratorical skill that they could stand up in front of that small coliseum, so to speak, and make their pitch in such a passionate, logical and rational way that it would move the emotions of the Greeks within that city. 
   They would not necessarily analyze the information behind that debate. They would not necessarily analyze the data, the calculations. They maybe were not even thinking for themselves. But what they would do is, they would  listen to the demagogue that had that ability to move the masses with their dialogue. That, sometimes, in fact, often, took the Greeks off on a path that was not necessarily the best path for them, because they didn't stop, step back and think about where they were going. They were moved by the emotion. 
   So a demagogue would be someone, then, who had that ability and that skill. When they were identified as detrimental to the best interests of the city-state, then they had a blackball system. That blackball system, again, as I recall it, was that they would each go through, and there would be a, let us call it a black marble and a white marble, and there would be one large gourd to drop the voting marble in and then one to discard your empty in. So each voting member of a city-state got two, a black marble and a white marble. 
   As they went through there and as they dropped that marble in, they said, I want to keep this individual here in the city-state because I like his position, or he is good for us, or he helps out with the knowledge he has, whatever the reason might be, the same way we vote for or against Presidential candidates in a lot of ways. They would drop a white ball if they wanted to keep him, into the voting. 
   It would actually be a piece of pottery, a smaller-necked piece of pottery, actually. Then they would discard the black ball in another piece of pottery. So no one knew how they voted; it was a secret ballot. 
   But if that demagogue received three black balls dropped down in the voting piece of pottery, then that would be all that was required from the entire city to banish that demagogue from the city for 7 years. That was one of the ways they protected themselves from the emotions of a democracy. 
   Mr. Speaker, I bring this up because quite often, I think, in the classrooms of America, it is taught consistently and continuously that this is a democracy. We toss the term around, we are in a democracy. This is a democracy that goes on over and over and over again, and I always argue, no, this is a constitutional Republic. 
   Our Founding Fathers crafted a constitutional Republic for the first time in the history of the world because they were shaping a form of government that would not have the failures of a democracy in it, but had the representation of democracy in it. That is why we are a constitutional Republic. That is why we are called Representatives here in the United States Congress, because we each represent about 600,000 people. 
   It isn't the 600,000 people, those that are qualified and registered, those that go to vote will select each one of us, and then it is our job to be their voice here. But the first thing that we owe our constituents is not to put our finger in the wind and listen to the polls. It isn't our job necessarily to put our ear to the ground and try to stay ahead of the moving public opinion, but it is our job to listen to that public opinion. 
   It is also our job to be involved in all of the dialogue here and have access to all this information that is available to us here in this capital city, the information center of the world, from my experience. We owe our constituents and all American people our best judgment as we serve in this constitutional Republic. 
   The voice of these Members here in Congress is essential. It is essential for the functionality of a republic, and it is essential for the functionality of this great Nation. In this system of government that we have now shaped, a tried and true system for more than 200 years, we found a way to use this process of gathering the information and the data and the input from our constituents who come through my office every day. And I sit down with them every day that we are open for business here, and it is for me to gather that kind of input and information. Then I exchange back with them the things that I know about policy from sitting here. 
   Then we have discussions about, well, here is our budget, these are our limitations, these are the policy questions. Here is the legality, here are some of the constitutional constraints that we have, and your needs are this. So how do we shape this together so that we can come forward with a proposal that meets the needs of my constituents or anyone's constituents, stays within the framework of our budget and the Constitution and moves this Nation forward to our destiny? 
   Those are the questions that we are obligated to struggle to resolve here in this Congress, and we have developed a process by which we have many, many public hearings. We bring forward in the public hearings witnesses that testify into the record under oath, so that we can rely on the accuracy and the honesty and the veracity of their statements. That is some of the information. 
   A lot of the other government reports and other data that come from nongovernmental organizations and individual citizens and the letters that come every day and the e-mails that come every day and the phone calls that come every day, we put that all together. We sort that. We synthesize that. We go to the subcommittee or the full committee for the hearings. We ask the appropriate questions so that we can probe into these issues to represent our constituents. 
   Then, after the hearing process is done, then a bill comes forward, a bill comes out through the subcommittee process for a markup, and that markup always must allow legitimate germane amendments in order. It is not just a theory; it is a tried and true proven fact. The reason for amendments is to improve the legislation. 
   The first term that you run into, as any, one step forward, to become a legislator, whatever level of government might be, whatever political subdivision it might be, is the law of unintended consequences. That is what happens when any of us, most often in our youthful idealism, come charging into the legislative process. We say, I have a law I want to pass, this is what I want it to be. 
   You write that down, put it into the right format, and you submit that into the process, and immediately the wake-up call is, well, what about this implication and that? What happens when you unfund this side of it. What happens when you don't have law enforcement on the other side? What happens when you punish more people than you were trying to help because you didn't think of all the aspects? 
   Well, that is the law of unintended consequences. That is what happens when you have a legislative process that circumvents or usurps this tried and true, more than two-centuries-old process that we have here in the United States Congress. 
   This constitutional Republic cannot sustain itself if we do not have a regular order of doing business that guarantees the rights of each Member to be heard, for each Member to bring their judgment to the hearing process, to probe the witnesses, to put into the record the background that they want to gather from the witnesses they choose, as well, to offer amendments at committee and subcommittee level and at the level up at the Rules Committee. 
   This is all a process to perfect legislation, to reduce, and, ideally, eliminate that Murphy's Law of unintended consequences, and also to improve the quality of the legislation so that it is far more effective than it may be as if just one person with their limited vision, their limited knowledge, limited background and limited understanding could bring to this legislative body. 
   I have to point out, the system and the process that I have described here is anything, but what has been taking place in this 110th Congress. This is the 110th Congress that was promised to be the most open and the term, I believe, was ``democratic Congress in history.'' The leadership was going to set up a system that had rules, that allowed for amendments at every level, that allowed for open dialogue, that allowed for open hearings. In fact, the Speaker of the House is clearly on record time after time after time, making those kinds of pledges. 
   Well, I will point out that has not been the case. I will get back to the facts of that here in a moment. 
   What I would like to do is illustrate this poster that tells us what has been going on here in this new 110th Congress, which began on the 4th day of January when we organized and first brought forth the rules. 
   The opinion that this Congress had to live by was the promise, campaign promise, and they won the majority. In the first 100 hours, six pieces of legislation shall pass; we will do this for the American people, was the argument.  
   So we have two different ways of keeping time. The American people would wonder, well, the first 100 hours, if that promise of doing these six pieces of legislation in the first 100 hours is so sacrosanct that you have to suspend, maybe temporarily, and maybe not temporarily, the regular order that we call it here. This really is the entire process that I have described: the suspension of hearings, subcommittee meetings, full committee meetings, rules, consideration of amendments, and amendments being allowed on the floor, being debated, so the American people can understand what this body is doing. 
   That entire process has been suspended, and it has been suspended because the argument was made by the incoming leadership that those six pieces of legislation couldn't be passed within the first 100 hours if we went to a regular order and allowed any Member to have any voice in trying to improve any piece of that legislation. 
   So here we are this first 100 hours. I thought, well, all right, if the promise of 100 hours is sacrosanct, and it is so important that this legislation that has never been done in the history of America has to be done in the first 100 hours, if that is so important, then we ought to know at least what the criteria are for turning it on and turning it off. We ought to be able to know when that 100 hours is over, when we will go back to regular order, and the people who have campaigned and been elected to legitimately represent their 600,000 people will have a choice in this Congress to improve and perfect legislation. 
   So I started the clock, and I have kept this clock from the beginning. You know, there are only two legitimate ways to count time. One of them would be the 110th Congress began when we gaveled in here on the 4th day of January. You could just let the clock run all through the day, the night, the next day, and it will just essentially tick when we get sine die, gavel out of the 110th Congress roughly 2 years from now. 
   I don't think that is necessarily a fair and legitimate way, that keeping track of 100 hours is sacrosanct. We may give them a little bit different way to do that. Let us make it the legitimate way of keeping time, was my proposal. 
   Fairly simply, when the gavel comes in here in the morning, and we gavel in to start our day, and we start with the prayer and the pledge, that is the beginning of this congressional day. When we finish these Special Orders and there is a motion to adjourn, and you adjourn this Chamber, click, with the stopwatch, time is over, that is how many hours it is for that day. 
   Well, the Pelosi clock has a different way of keeping time. But just by comparison--and first I want to point out that those six pieces of legislation were passed not in the form I thought they were going to come to the floor in, probably not the form that the American people thought that they would be passed in, but a form that had those six titles of that legislation that came to this floor, passed within the first real 100 hours of legislation.     
   And that ended on a Friday at 11:44 a.m. when the real clock ticked over at 100 hours. But the Pelosi clock which was on the Web page, that was put up so that they would have all the time that they wanted to have to get this legislation done, and we just took a little picture of that. That clock went to 42 hours and 25 minutes. That is how much, Mr. Speaker, had been expired on the Pelosi clock. 
   So one can only presume that this clock was a slow clock. The Pelosi office refuses to grant us any criteria as to when they turn their clock on and when they turn their clock off. The only thing we know is this clock was not going to run up to 100 hours until those six pieces of legislation were passed. So it is kind of a backwards figuring thing, but now it has been pulled down from the Web site of the Speaker, but that was the end of the game. 
   So when that 100 hours is over, the request was give us some time, give us some patience. We need to have the suspension of our rules. We are going to have to go to this draconian process that no Member has a voice in anything until these six pieces of legislation are passed. We are going to have to go to that to get our six pieces passed in the first 100 hours. 
   Well, the six pieces are passed. The 100 hours now, it is about 148-point-something actually, where it is going to be 149 when we finish this up. That is how many hours that we have invested here in this 110th Congress. But we are still under draconian martial law in this Congress. 
   We are bringing to the floor of the United States Congress tomorrow, and I don't mean me, but the leadership on the other side of the aisle is bringing an omnibus spending bill. That omnibus spending bill is coming to the floor, $463 billion, without a single hearing, without a single subcommittee or committee meeting, without a markup, without an amendment; and we are going to spend $463 billion out of here tomorrow on 30 minutes of debate from the dissenting side and 30 minutes of debate from the proponents' side, and the taxpayers are going to take the hit. 
   And I feel sorry, Mr. Speaker, for the American people. And I feel really sorry for the freshmen that came to this Congress, especially the large class of Democrats who no doubt said, I will be your voice in Congress. I promise you that you haven't been represented well. I will be effective. When I go there, I will be heard. I am going to delve into all of this policy and I will be there. You will see that come out in the language. It will go into law. 
   But to this day come to the floor and I will yield to anyone, any freshman especially, who could come down here and say, I went to a hearing and I offered an amendment in a subcommittee markup or in a full committee or I am going to be allowed to offer an amendment here on the floor and it is going to improve some legislation. 
   I think there was a freshman that ran some legislation here last week. I just don't know if she ever got to see the language before she came to the floor to be the sitting duck for the criticism, for the narrow debate that we had. 
   That is the tone of where we are. The American people are being cheated by this process. And I will be very happy to yield to the man who is a judge of that, Judge Louie Gohmert from Texas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (WHAT IS GOOD FOR AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I am going to have to guess. I am going to turn this back to you for a definitive answer. My speculation would be, Mr. Gohmert, that Duma probably didn't see it and maybe we get to see it for a pro forma vote, or am I wrong? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (WHAT IS GOOD FOR AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time, I thank the gentleman from Texas for that insightful input. In other words, he is so gentle and subtle when he said the Soviets kept their promise because they didn't make one. 
   And the thing that I am addressing here, Mr. Speaker, is that there were a lot of promises made, and the integrity in this system, that is what you have to function in this body. We have to give our word and we have got to keep our word. And when we do that, this system functions. When you give your word and you don't keep your word, the system breaks down. And the people that pay the price for that are the American people. 
   So I would submit that all of that whole series of promises were subordinated to the 100 hours' promise, which turned out to be 42 hours and 25 minutes. Fine. I am going to grant that that stuff got done in 100 real hours.  Actually, it got done just underneath the 100 real hours. But the clock has ticked over by anybody's measure. It is over 100 hours. And there was never a justification for it anyway. I mean, I want to be on record in this Congressional Record, Mr. Speaker. There is not a justification for expediting the process at the expense of the voice of the people. 
   But that is what has been done. Well, it has been done at least under the promise that when the 100 hours is up and the six pieces of legislation are passed, we are going to then try to keep our promise on the most open Congress in history. As we know, you cannot expedite legislation very well in the process that we have now and be able to improve it. 
   So what they have done is they have brought this 150-or-more-page bill that was just first available last night at 11:03 p.m. on the Internet. Some of our staff had actually quit work by that time and gone home to bed; so some of them didn't find that until this morning. But of those 150 or 160 pages, in there is 463-point-something billion dollars of spending and it has changed a fair amount of line items, and what it does is it increases the spending from the Republican plan by $7 billion, Mr. Speaker. Seven billion. And it changes the resources that are committed. They go back to the districts in some places. 
   We even have some locations, in our short little time of looking at this, where we believe that because they have underfunded and this budget has gone on now for almost half a year that there will be some agencies that may well have to pay back because of this omnibus spending bill. And they will come, Mr. Speaker, to the floor tomorrow, and they will say, Well, this is a CR. This is a continuing resolution. And a continuing resolution being that you pass a resolution that says we are going to keep funding government at the current level and all of its line item appropriations until such time as we can get the Senate to act. 
   And I have to say that the Senate needs to act. We 
   passed nearly every single one of the appropriation bills last year, sent them over to the Senate, where they sat. And so that is one of the reasons that we end up with this ugly monstrosity of an omnibus spending bill. 
   But it would be one thing to pass a continuing resolution and say that stuff has been through the subcommittee, committee, the markup process, been to the floor, at Appropriations. We had worked our will on all of that. It is a different Congress, but we had worked our will in the 109th Congress. It would be one thing to pass a continuing resolution to meet those standards because that has been due diligence at least. It is quite another to take all of these dollars, roll them all up, package them up, rewrite them, and then throw them out here on the narrowest of notice, $463 billion, and then say, well, there won't be any input and there won't be any amendments and it is going to be strictly an up-or-down vote, and you get 30 minutes to tell us why it is a bad idea and try to convince our people whose arms are twisted up behind their shoulder blades that they are going to have to vote for it. 
   And there they sit with a large class of freshmen. Some of them served in State legislatures. In fact, I would speculate that most of them have. And I would also speculate that not a single one of them has experienced a process that was so closed in its loop, that was so narrow in its scope, that was so draconian that the collective wisdom of 435 Members of Congress and all the staff and all the constituents and all the media input all goes for naught. 
   I would be very happy to yield to the gentleman from Georgia, and I will pick up whenever I need to. Thank you, Mr. Gingrey. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (WHAT IS GOOD FOR AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the esteemed gentleman from Georgia, Dr. PHIL, for his input. I did not mean to imply that I was short of time to deal with it. So if you feel the urge a little later as well, Mr. Gingrey, I am open to whatever dialogue you may have to bring to this floor. I appreciate that input. 
   We are here to represent the American people. We each represent roughly 600,000, for each of us 435 Members here in the United States Congress. There is not anybody in this Congress that would concede a point that there is anybody's constituents that deserve more representation than theirs. 
   I will just say it this way. There are no one's constituents in America that deserve more representation than my constituents. And, conversely, there are no constituents out there in America that deserve less. That means you have got to have an open process that provides for open dialogue, that provides for opportunities along the way to perfect legislation to avoid unintended consequences and to improve legislation to perfection if we possibly can. 
   That is the process that is absolutely missing. It has been totally usurped. It has been a rug jerked out from underneath this entire Congress. And the promise of an open process is a broken promise. The 100 hours are up, and no one knows that better than Mr. Feeney from Florida. I yield to Mr. Feeney. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (WHAT IS GOOD FOR AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Thank you, Mr. Feeney, for adding the clarity to this issue and putting the numbers down and for also listing into the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD the seven points, any one of which qualifies as an earmark, all of which will be breaking the promise tomorrow, and 2,000 times larger than that large earmark that 80-some percent of America understands as the Bridge to Nowhere. 
   I would point out that there is a way to address this. And I have not been necessarily a critic of well-managed earmarks, as long as they are within the budget and as long as it is a Member initiative that actually is researched and debated, and it is open and it is public, there is an opportunity to go in and strike it out. 
   But the problem with the earmarks has been, they show up after it is too late, and the bill comes to the floor, and there is not time to read the bill, and not time to prepare amendments; or they come up in a conference, and then here comes the conference report with a whole stack of earmarks in there that are agreed to by the conference committee, but not aware, not made aware to the rest of the Members, and no access to it. 
   So I looked at this. And I thought, how can we fix this? And we have done some things with earmarks. But last year, in the middle of this, about this time a year ago, I began grinding and churning my way through and created an act called the Cut Act. And I have drafted and filed that information; I believe that both gentlemen here on the floor are cosponsors of that Cut Act. 
   But what that Act does, Mr. Speaker, is it recognizes that there will be legislation passed off the floor of this Congress, and that Members will not have an opportunity to act on that legislation, on that appropriation, and that there will be earmarks in there that are either identified or may be not identified, but maybe they are objectionable to the American people. 
   And it recognizes, Mr. Speaker, that this is an instantaneous Information Age if we give access on the Internet to the people in this country, all of whom have access to the Internet in one form or another. 
   We have not done that. We need to put sunlight on everything that we do. We need to let them have real-time bloggers be able to access all of the bills that are filed, all of the amendments that are filed. They need to be able to track this whole process. But then once we get that system set up and we provide sunlight, the Cut Act allows, recognizes that those appropriations bills will find their way over to the President's desk, and he will sign them to keep this government running.     
   And this is that there will be a whole collection of objectionable, irresponsible spending to projects that comes to mind. The bridge was referenced by Mr. Feeney. The Cowgirl Hall of Fame strikes me as something that could be privately funded if we need one. There are a number of others out there that are objectionable earmarks. But if we pass the CUT Act, and the President signs the appropriation bill and the bloggers light up and they start sending this in and it becomes a national issue, or even just a tip that goes to a certain Member of Congress, like Mr. Gingrey for example, we could, under the CUT Act, once each quarter, four times a year, provide under the rule so that a bill would be brought to the floor that would allow for the rescission of any one of those individual line items. 
   So the Shell bill might come to the floor. Any Member would bring an amendment that would say I want to eliminate the funding for the Cowgirl Hall of Fame. We put it up here on the board. We vote it up or down. We do that to every single line item if we chose to do that, and it might take a long time to debate that first bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (WHAT IS GOOD FOR AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Well, again I thank the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Gingrey) for reminding me about some of the earmarks that we have out there. And the list is long. And my point on this is the American people can make that list a lot longer. And at least in theory, any piece of appropriation that comes across this floor that makes it through the process should have the majority support of the House of Representatives. It ought to have the majority support of the United States Senate. We ought to agree on that number, and it should go to the President for his signature. That is the process that is structured within our constitution. That is the process as the American people envision it. That is the process that we are struggling to attain here, that will not be, even presumed to be happening tomorrow when this--not a CR, but this omnibus spending bill which is a catch-all for every single appropriation that goes into discretionary spending for the rest of--until the first day of October is when this is over. 
   And, again, I am so sorry for the freshmen who come here that right now don't know any better, and they  aren't even outraged. They have been led, taken by the hand and led down the primrose path. And I have offered them time and again, come down here. I would be happy to yield. Tell me what legislation you have had a voice in. What have you made a difference in? Did you make the promise to represent your constituents or didn't you? Yes, you did. Obviously everybody makes that promise. So didn't you have some high and shining ideals? When you see the flag go up over the Capitol doesn't that make your heart beat a little faster? Don't you get that feeling in your stomach and that swelling sense of pride when you look up at the dome and that you are here to represent the American people of the United States Congress? 
   But my news to you is you are not representing them. You are not being allowed to represent them. You aren't even a voice. You haven't been heard. Your input is not there. The expertise that you bring with your background, whatever it might be, has no value in this place. It is just a handful of people in the cabal that decide what is coming down here, the same ones that make the promise that there is going to be that opportunity, freshman, for you to be able to have that kind of input. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, I illustrate that and the absence of rebuttal here on this floor is confirmation of my statement of my position and that of Mr. Gingrey and that of Mr. Feeney here this afternoon. The absence of rebuttal speaks loudly and it echoes in my ears. 
   But on the earmark part of this, that is why I drafted the CUT Act, so that this Congress could be able to eliminate any line item that did not have the majority support of the House and the Senate and the President, and it recognizes that the President would sign an appropriations bill and that money would get off his desk and go to the agencies, wherever it might be, and it takes them sometimes the whole year to spend the last dollar. And at any point where we rescinded that funding, it would go to reduce the national debt automatically, and then that fund would no longer be available to whatever entity was about to receive it. 
   That is one way that gives Congress, the CUT Act gives Congress a line item veto. And that is the piece of policy that we need to get resolved here in this Congress, along with many others. But the open process, and this is going to be and has been so far, Mr. Speaker, a very closed process, a process so closed that I will point out that, not just a matter of information, I mean, I have sent my staff down to the majority leader's office to try to find out what the criteria was for the clock, or what is the criteria for providing and offering amendments; when is this draconian martial-law going to be lifted, this open process that is promised. 
   And I want to point out, the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Cooper) was doing a national television program here on the news, the beginning of the 110th Congress, a couple of days before we gaveled in. And they said to him, but you are going to suspend all the rules and you are going to drive all this legislation through without input from Members on either side. And he got kind of a funny look on his face and he said, well, just please, will you give us a little patience. Have some patience and let us get through this process. And once we get these six bills passed, you are going to see the most open, democratic Congress in history. 
   Mr. Cooper, I am waiting for you, too. I would be very happy to yield. 
   That is not the case today. The hundred hours is clearly up. The process is not open, and the American people are not being heard. They didn't decide they were going to anoint some people with a royalty position, whether they allege that they are the most powerful woman in the world or not. This is a government that rules by the consent of the people. And the people did not give their consent to a process that is not an open process, a process that muzzles 99 percent of the Members in this Congress. 
   And clearly, they are not here to speak up because they know they don't have a voice and they don't have an argument. And so we are going to continue to push on this process. We are going to go before the Rules Committee. I took an amendment up before the Rules Committee, and there were a number of us that did. We all know the results of that, the charade in the Rules Committee, which is, bring your amendment up. You can offer your amendment up here, but before you come up here, we are going to tell you we are not going to accept a single one, even if it is some kind of revelation. If it is an epiphany that just fixes the whole thing, we are not going to consider it because the meat cleaver has come down. 
   So we are going through a charade. No amendments, but come here and argue them anyway if you want to and we will sit through this and we will put one or two people up there and we will rotate and we will get through this process. And then we will say, why are you complaining? We had a rules process. You just didn't have any amendments with any merit. Oh, really? No amendments with any merit is the same result as no input into the process, Mr. Speaker. This government cannot function with that. 
   And I will also point out that the House of Representatives is where all the appropriations has to start. That is what the Constitution says and that is what we need to follow. But this bill, this omnibus bill, is going to go over to the Senate, over to those 100 Senators over there, and you can bet that they are going to be offering amendments and they are going to be improving this omnibus spending bill, and they are going to be fixing this all the way through their process. So their voice will be heard. And then we will get an amended omnibus bill back here again, and I would submit this question, will then, Mr. Speaker, will it come to the floor again with no opportunity for amendments again? And if that is the case, why have we ceded the improvement process to the United States Senate? 
   We are the hot cup of coffee here, and they are the saucer to cool it in. We are supposed to be the quick reaction force that has the elections every 2 years, so 
   that vigor that comes with a new freshman class and that risk of being up for re-election every 2 years, it keeps us tuned in with our fingers on the pulse of the American people who can be heard in the legislative process. 
   The hot cup of coffee, the quick reaction force, the storm troops that are going to come in and fix things quickly, especially in the change-over of a majority, Mr. Speaker, is just what our Founding Fathers envisioned when they drafted our Constitution and set up this miraculous system of government that we have. But the leadership in this House of Representatives has handed over the amendment process to the United States Senate which they have a legitimate claim to their version of it, we also have a legitimate claim to ours and a constitutional duty to do so that has been usurped by this decision to make a promise and have that promise of 100 hours be sacrosanct and then like that draconian approach so much of not being challenged that they go ahead and shut the clock off at 42 hours and 25 minutes. 
   And we could go on in perpetuity until the American people revolt at the polls. That is what is coming. You are going to see mistake after mistake after mistake. One of those examples would be the Minimum Wage Act, American Samoa, and being exempted from the Minimum Wage Act of all of The states and territories of the United States of America, one place on the map with 60,000 people, we find out after the fact, after the minimum wage bill is passed, is exempted from the minimum wage. Well, if you can legislate wages to go up and help people, which is the argument that came out of this side of the aisle continually, Mr. Speaker, then why can't you do so in American Samoa? What is wrong with them that they don't deserve a raise like everybody else got in America that was working for a minimum wage? And the answer that I get back is, well, we had to do that because the tuna market there won't sustain this. The international competition won't sustain higher wages, so we would lose that to Asia or maybe South American companies that can produce that tuna cheaper than they can in the American Samoa. 
   Well, that is called competition. And how is it that Democrats can understand the effect of competition and the deleterious effect of minimum wage on a small business, large business in a small microcosm of a location like American Samoa? They can understand  it when it is a microcosm, but they can't understand it when it is 300 million people in a macrocosm. It is the same principle that applies, Mr. Speaker. But that is a fatal flaw of this approach of a closed process rather than an open process. That is what happens, Mr. Speaker, when we don't allow for amendments. And then things start to smell fishy. 
   What was the reason? 
   I would be happy to yield to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Gingrey). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (WHAT IS GOOD FOR AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - January 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Gingrey). And I will say that my sympathy and heart goes out to especially freshmen Members of Congress when they go back home to their town hall meetings, and I would just ask you, out there, and Mr. Speaker, I convey that message to the people in America, that when these freshman especially show up for their first town hall meeting, I would say to the citizens, stand up and ask them, what has been your input? What has been your impact? How have you kept your promise so far? What do you think of the process? What has been your involvement? Have you produced any amendments? Have you done anything to impact this process whatsoever? And their answer is going to be ``no.'' You need to challenge them, Mr. Speaker, to come back here and open up this process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 997 -- (House of Representatives - February 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, for my bill, H.R. 997, inadvertently and by obvious mistake, the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Price) was listed as a cosponsor of the bill in error instead of the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Price). I would ask unanimous consent that we grant the request of both gentlemen, that the gentleman from North Carolina's name could be removed from H.R. 997. 
   And I would apologize to both the gentlemen from North Carolina and Georgia who are named Mr. Price. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (NATIONAL SECURITY FOREIGN INVESTMENT REFORM AND STRENGTHENED TRANSPARENCY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - February 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I bring an, actually, very simple amendment to the floor here. What it does is it just adds to the list of the issues that shall be considered by the President when considering one of the covered transactions. The simple language out of the amendment is that the President shall consider the potential effects of the covered transaction on the efforts of the United States to curtail human smuggling and to curtail drug smuggling. It covers a focus on human smuggling and drug smuggling. 
   I support the underlying bill, and I recognize the important role played by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States in protecting the American people and the security interests of the United States. 
   One important piece of this legislation will require the President to consider certain factors relating to national security when deciding whether to prohibit the acquisitions, mergers or takeovers that this legislation is intended to scrutinize. 
   The provisions of the bill provide the President with good criteria to use when deciding what actions should be taken to halt a merger acquisition, but it does not go quite far enough. 
   Mr. Chairman, my amendment of this bill would add a simple and straightforward requirement to the subject matter of things that the President should take into consideration when making these decisions. My amendment would require that the President consider the potential effects of the transaction on our work to stop human smuggling and drug smuggling. 
   This bill rightfully calls for the President to consider important factors relating to our national security, but it doesn't make any mention of the two important national security issues that threaten the United States, and we face it every day, and that is human smuggling and drug smuggling. 
   To give us some background, in the year 2000, the Interagency Commission on Crime and Security in U.S. Seaports, reported that of the 12 major U.S. seaports that it visited, narcotics seized in commercial shipments at the 12 ports constituted 69 percent of the total weight of cocaine, 55 percent of the marijuana and 12 percent of the heroin seized at U.S. borders. 
   Now that is the amount seized, not necessarily the amount that crosses across the border. There has been some effectiveness there, but we know the DEA has some numbers that also are shocking and might have a little different sense of proportionality. 
   But not surprisingly, the commission also stated that smuggling of illegal aliens is a problem, and those same 12 ports in that period of time, 1,187 stowaways and 247 individual fraudulent documents arrived aboard sea vessels. This is something that needs to be focused on by the President, and that is just those that were caught. 
   Of the many threats that face the United States in the global war on terror, we must closely evaluate every merger, every acquisition and every takeover that could put our country at risk, and especially those through drug and human smuggling and especially in this time when we are faced with this global war on terror. 
   This amendment, I think, is an amendment that improves the bill. I support the underlying bill, and I appreciate the work that is done on the part of the Finance Committee and on the part of the chairman and the ranking member. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IMMIGRATION REFORM -- (House of Representatives - February 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Welcome to the Speaker's chair and the gavel of the United States Congress. It is a big and important thing to serve in this place, and it is always an honor to walk down here on the floor. It is absolutely an honor to be seated there in the Speaker's chair that has seated so many esteemed colleagues on both sides of the aisle. And the kind of leadership that has come from there back through history, the halls and the floor here echo with their influence, and the destiny of America has absolutely been redirected by that seat and by that gavel, and will continue to do so. And I very much look forward to continuing to work in this capacity. 
   I come to the floor this afternoon, Madam Speaker, to raise an issue here and carry on a discussion that is the most intense discussion item across America. And I would challenge anyone to walk into a coffee shop or a place of work or anyplace where Americans gather to talk about the issues of the day, and you don't have to change the subject, just stop and listen, ask a question and see what comes up first. Maybe the weather, maybe a sports team. 
   But when it shakes down to it, Madam Speaker, and we have talked about all of the amenities and the niceties and the general discussion topics that don't have a lot of substance but carry on the day, in the end, in America we get down to one of two subjects, and that is either the global war on terror on which Iraq is a principle battleground, or it is immigration. And sometimes it is both. 
   And having just come back from another trip to the border last week about now a week ago, and having been flush full of the things that I learned down there, I am compelled to come here to the floor, Madam Speaker, and raise the issue and begin to examine this subject and topic a little bit more. 
   We have now, for about 3 years, had an intense debate and discussion on immigration, and there are those of us here in this Chamber, in fact, this House of Representatives last fall voted to build a double fence/wall on the southern border, and laid out the distances, the locations and the distances from those locations. And, when calculated and totaled up, it becomes clear that Congress has mandated, the House and the Senate has mandated that there be 854 miles of at least double-walled fencing, a double fencing or a double fencing and wall constructed upon our southern border in priority areas, Madam Speaker. And last week, I went down to review some of the beginnings of that construction. 
   It also establishes a mandate that the Secretary of Homeland Security, Mr. Chertoff, will establish interlocking cameras and other technology along the border, and he has until May 31 of this year to complete the construction of the interlocking technology according to authorization of the Secure Fence Act, and another year to complete the construction of the double fencing and that 854 miles of that priority area. And then, with the exception of an area at Laredo that is 15 miles, that are 15 miles of either side of Laredo, and that those 15 miles can be constructed in the 2008 construction season on up until December 30 of 2008, that is the congressional mandate, Madam Speaker. 
   That is the mandate that was passed by a significant majority here in the House of Representatives, and a mandate that was passed by a vote that I do remember in the Senate that was 80-19. It was bipartisan, obviously. It had very solid support. And the reason that it had such solid support is this physical barrier that is mandated by Congress and signed by the President, bipartisan mandate, House and Senate, Madam Speaker; these physical barriers or these pairs of physical barriers, double fencing and walls, are something that is not an administrative decision; it is not something that is necessarily prone to human failure or human error or human lack of will to enforce. If you put those barriers in there, they are going to do some good regardless of whether there is anyone there that is maintaining and manning and guarding them or not, which, of course, we need to do. 
   And any kind of a structure that we put in place must be maintained, it must be guarded, it must be manned. It needs to have sensors on it. But these barriers will allow our Border Patrol officers and other backup enforcement officers that we have to be able to respond in a more effective fashion. And if they are going to defeat the barriers, it will take time to do that. And if they trip the sensors, and they should, that will give our Border Patrol officers an opportunity to descend upon that site and make the kind of arrests that are necessary so that the word gets out that there are areas of this border at least that you had better not try to cross. 
   Now, this area in San Luis, Arizona is just south of Yuma. It is a community on the U.S. side that is as far southwest as you can get on the border in Arizona. This is a location that has had some rather permanent steel wall right on the border that has been there for some time, and we have added to that. Now, this permanent steel wall, this is a steel landing mat, interlocking landing mat that is welded together along that border, is being extended in both directions from San Luis. And I reflect also in hearing the remark from the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Ryan) that we need some 200,000 welders by the year 2010 or 2012, I forget which exact year that was. 
   I have heard those kinds of cries for help before, and I have lived through those deadlines, and we always seem to come up with the number of people we need to do the job that is necessary. One of the things we do is we just simply pay people what it is worth and they show up to do the job. But if they are short about 6 or 7 welders in 2010, they can get ahold of Secretary Chertoff who picked up a welder down there and welded some of that steel wall together right on the border of San Luis, Arizona. And that also was the case with Senator Johnny Isakson, Senator Ben Nelson, Congressman Mike Pence. And I am not sure, that is the ones that I saw, there were probably others that also lended a hand, as I did, to weld some of that fencing and wall together. It was more symbolic than production, but symbolism does matter in this business, and it helps encourage the people that are down there building those barriers. 
   And particularly, our National Guard that are down on the border, approaching 6,000 strong, they freed up at least 500 on-line slots for Border Patrol agents that can be up-front patrolling. And they are constructing fence and wall with the time that they have down there on the border. Their morale seems to be good. They act like they believe in their mission. I believe in their mission. I am encouraged by the fact that they are there, hands on, building, constructing, putting barriers in place, because this Congress mandated and the President signed, however unenthusiastically, he did sign the authorization of the Secure Fence Act that mandates 854 miles of double fence wall on our border. 
   And then, after the mandate and the authorization, the authorization which is the mandate, then we heard continually from the critics across the country, well, you will never fund it. And if you never fund it, then it will never be built. So it was only, the allegation that it was only the part of Congress to just simply make a promise that we  didn't intend to fulfill. And I heard that criticism all the way through the campaign season to November 7 and all the way beyond that well into December, and I have heard smatterings of it since then and questions that come from the media. And at some point last month, Congressman Duncan Hunter, who is the ranking member of the Armed Services Committee and former chairman, and a real leader on this fence on the border, and I and several others, did a press conference. Actually, it was Duncan Hunter and myself on that particular press conference. And we talked about how this fence will be built and needs to be built and must be built, and it is a congressional mandate. 
   And I pointed to the line item in the appropriations bill that funds the Department of Homeland Security, and their overall appropriation is 34 point something billion dollars. And in that 34 point something billion dollars is a line item for double fence and wall and the technology that goes with it, the interlocking cameras and the other devices, and some of them now are ground based radar, funding for all of that to the tune of $1,187,000,000 and change. 
   Now, that is the line item that has been appropriated. That money goes to only one thing, and that is securing our border with either technology or fence, and then the necessary support that it takes to get that done. 
   We followed through, we mandated 854 miles of fence and wall, double, and we have appropriated $1,187,000,000. Now that is probably not enough to complete the whole 854 miles, but, Madam Speaker, it is a great start. And we have given a great start here in Congress and created this inertia and provided the mandate, and now the Department of Homeland Security working with the National Guard has got a beginning. 
   I won't say they have a great start or that they have even a good start, but they have a beginning. And it is great to have a beginning. We are able to do hands-on on the beginning. It is a triple fence there south of Yuma in San Luis. 
   So as I ask the question, Madam Speaker, of how effective are these barriers that we are putting here in place, the answer that I get back down there is: In that area they had interdicted 2 years ago 138,000 illegal border crossers in that area. And, since October, they had interdicted 15,000. Now, that is not quite apples to apples. You have to calculate it out so much per month, but you get the idea that it has been about two-thirds effective at this point. And as I ask the question, has anyone come through the area where we have this triple fence, this 12-foot high steel wall made out of landing mat steel, the 16-foot high steel mesh wall. And that is about 100 feet apart, and then as you come into the United States going north, then there is a 10-foot high chain-link fence like a school playground fence with about three or four bars on top, barbwire. Shorthand in Iowa as barbs. 
   And there, they said that maybe about three people had gotten through that area. And upon further questioning, one or two through the waterway, one or so around the end. Had anybody defeated the area where it is triple fencing? And the answer was, they will defeat anything we build. They will find a way to get over, under, or through it. And, of course, then the follow-up question is: Has anyone defeated it yet, this fence we are looking at? And the answer is no. To date, no one has gone over, under, or through the triple fencing that is constructed there south of Yuma at San Luis. 
   Now, I would like to hold that record intact. I don't know that we will be able to hold it intact, but I think it is important to note that that fencing has not been defeated yet. And, that as long as illegal border crossers have an option to go someplace else to go around, they are not going to try to go over, under, or through. And that will be the case as long as we have a fence that doesn't extend the full length of the border. Now, it is possible for us to supplement those areas where there isn't a lot of concentration of pressure on the border with technology, with ground-based radar, with interlocking cameras, with a quick response force, with teams that can go out and pick people up in the deserts that have 25 miles to walk to get anywhere where they can pick up any transportation mode once they get across the border. So we can use some of those kinds of methods, too, until it becomes inefficient in that approach and we have to go back to extending the fence, extend the wall, give the people on the ground some tools to work with. 
   But continually, Madam Speaker, I get this answer when I ask our Border Patrol about the effectiveness of structures like fences and walls, and that they need more boots on the ground. And the answer is always: Whatever you will do to fencing, there are places where we need to do it in urban areas. We don't need to do it in rural areas. This is their answer. And, we always need more boots on the ground. That is the answer. The answer really isn't to build structure or to build wall.     
   Well, I take issue with that philosophy, and I do so because of looking at it from a bit of a different perspective. That bit of a different perspective comes along like this. If we were to award contracts to companies and pay them according to the level of efficiency of being able to stop all human traffic coming across their sector of the border, stop all contraband from coming across their sector of the border, force all products, all contraband, all people, legal or illegal, through the ports of entry, that is our objective. That is what the laws that are established here in this Congress are about is forcing all that traffic through the ports of entry. 
   In fact, that is what the law presumes that they go through a port of entry. So anything we do to direct traffic through the port of entry is the right thing to do. It has been a piece of wisdom for this country for a long, long time, well over 100 years. Yet we have people that argue well, no, we should just leave the border open, leave it unmarked. I plead sometimes, can't we at least string up a number 9 wire and mark the border, so if you are out in the desert you don't wander across into another country. 
   There are miles and miles and miles of our southern border that are not marked in any way whatsoever, not a wire, not a post, not a fence are not a road, not a wall, certainly, and not a double fence, and not a virtual fence, virtually nothing is there. In fact, literally nothing is there. 
   If you go into some areas of New Mexico, when they laid out the border, the border is marked by a concrete pylon that is about 5 feet high, poured on a base, about this big square, 5 feet high, tapers up, and has a little insignia on it that says this is a border. That concrete pylon will be standing on a ridge line, and then if you look way down the border, you probably cannot see it from the naked eye, miles away. Over on the next ridge line will be another concrete pylon, and that is another mark for the border. 
   I will say that I think many people have crossed through that area and never known that there was a mark for the border because they didn't know where too look. These pylons, these markers were set up back in those old days with an old brass transit, with whatever power they had to set the cross hairs up, dial it in and look down range and then give the motion to the fellow on the other end, who did not have a walkie-talkie, did not have much optical equipment, but simply hand signals. 
   Go ahead, drive your stake in here. We will put the pylon there. That is good enough for this border. But that is all we marked it with, is just concrete pylons from ridge line to ridge line, and there is not a barrier, obviously. 
   So, if I were a contractor, and I were given the job to, say, guard 10 miles of border, and if the benchmark are for the amount of money that I would be paid for that job would be the amount that we are spending on the border today, that being $8 billion to protect our southern border, and that amounts to $4 million a mile, let's just say I were in the business of guaranteeing border security for 10 miles across the desert, and I went in and bid that at the going rate of $4 million a mile. 
   Well, that would mean the Federal Government would pay me $40 million a year to guard that 10 miles of border. Now, what would a rational person do if that were their job to get 100 percent efficiency? If they had a contract, the  amount of that contract would be deducted by the number of failures that you have? 
   Let's just say the average crossing of interdictions last year across our southern border, 1,188,000. I mean, that was the number reported by the Border Patrol of border interdictions, that many fingerprinted and returned back to their home countries. Perhaps 155,000 of them were other than Mexicans. Most of the rest were returned back to Mexico. 
   That many fingerprinted, you could divide that out, and I have not done the math. But you could figure out how many came through each mile on average, and then determine that if your mile was successful, we are going to pay you at your $4 million. Or if your 10 miles were successful, we will pay you at your $4 million a mile. If you didn't let anybody through, you are going to get to keep the whole $40 million, this year, next year, every year that you have the contract. 
   We would be getting far more for our money than we are getting today for the $4 million a mile that we are paying and the $8 billion that it costs us to guard that southern border. I can tell you that I would go down, and I would bid my 10 miles or whatever link it was that I thought I could manage and handle. 
   Then I would look at my contract for $40 million, and I would think, you know, for about $1.2 million a mile, I could build a concrete wall on here. I could put double fencing in. Maybe by the time I added interlocking cameras and some sensors and some interlocking ground radar, I may be even up to even $2 million a mile to build my double-wall fence with interlocking cameras and sensors. Now what do I have to do to make sure that no one gets through my 10 miles of border? 
   I would simply have to sit back and watch my monitors, have somebody that is out there ready to respond if anybody does get through, but monitor the situation, and we can monitor into Mexico. We can monitor when they get over, if they should get over the wall, in the United States, and do a quick response and interdiction. 
   I don't think you are going to spend a lot of money out of the remaining $30-some million. I may have to back up here, for 10 miles, if you built 10 miles, and you invest it all together up to $2 million a mile, then you have $20 million invested in that 10 miles. But you have a $40 million contract every year. 
   Then you have got $20 million to work with in order to hire personnel to drive around in Humvees and react, respond, interdict. I would submit that you could hire a helicopter for that 10 miles and do that if you needed to guard it that way. There is plenty of money left over to apply the labor and the patrolling and the maintenance for the fencing that would be necessary. 
   In fact, it would be minimal. It would be minimal. It would take far less labor, far less manpower, far less equipment, to monitor a border that has sealed barriers, barriers. Some of those barriers, to date, have not been breached by anyone. 
   That is far more effective than simply an open desert that will allow people to run through, drive through, ride through on a motorcycle or a horse or a donkey or a Humvee or an ATV or walk or run, daylight or dark, winter, well, not much winter down there, but in rain, when it rains, or in a sandstorm when the wind blows. I will be far more effective to put the barrier in place. 
   Yet when I ask the question of the Border Patrol, be it the union or be it the representatives of the Border Patrol and the administration themselves, their answer always is, we can take some structures like some fences in urban areas, because that gives us more time to react when they jump the fence, but it is going to take more boots on the ground. 
   I have tried and tried in hearings to ask the question in a way that I can get an objective answer, what do we have to do so it takes fewer boots on the ground? I will pose this question this way, and that is, if we created an impermeable curtain that could not be cut, it could not be torn, it could not be penetrated, but a magic kryptonite impermeable curtain that would go from all the way up to the heavens all the way down to hell, and all the way, 2,000 miles from San Diego to Brownsville, if we could hang that there on the border, couldn't be penetrated, couldn't be cut, couldn't be gone over, and it couldn't be dug under, how many Border Patrol would it take then to patrol the border? I would submit that answer then becomes none except for any place where we would have ports of entry. 
   I hope I have illustrated the logic of why we need to build a fence and a wall. This Congress understands it. They voted overwhelmingly to support it here in the House of Representatives just a few months ago, and the Senate, as slow as they are, to be proactive. As much as they like to let the hot coffee cool in the saucer of the Senate, they also moved, and three times they had votes on the floor last year to put a fence on the southern border. My very liberal Iowa Senate counterpart three times voted to put a fence on the border, and that vote in the Senate was 80-19. 
   Yet I am watching the undermining that is taking place on the part of, to some degree, the administration. Also the chairman of the Homeland Security Committee is using his chairmanship to undermine current law. I am watching the undermining that goes on the part of some of the Democrat candidates for the presidency and people who essentially don't appear to believe in American sovereignty. 
   Well, something that we need to simply know in America is that you have to make a decision if you are going to be a nation. If you are going to be a nation, and I will submit that over the last 200 years, the most successful institution of government has been the nation state. Can you imagine going to something other than the nation state? 
   Can you imagine going to the city states that we had at the beginning of the industrial revolution when Machiavelli wrote his books, and when the cities became the center point of government and control, and everything revolved around the cities? What happened was that common languages sprung up, and they began to be formed and shaped by the people that had trade in commerce and travel in a common region. As the languages defined themselves, the borders of the nations also defined themselves along the lines of language. 
   There came from that, the nation states, a common belief, a common history, a common form of communications currency, language, tied people together. They voluntarily moved together and established the nation states. Of course, the nation states have changed and shifted over time. 
   We have tried to create unnatural nation states. Yet here in America, we came together in these 50 States of the Nation State of the United States of America, and we are unique in all of history. We are unique because what we have done is we have welcomed people from all over the world. 
   Let me point out that we continually hear the statement America is a nation of immigrants, and it is stated to us over and over again, as if because we are a nation of immigrants, then therefore we cannot have a rational immigration policy that is designed to enhance the economic, the social and the cultural well-being of the United States of America. 
   No, we simply have to open our borders, because immigrants came here and helped build America. If some is good, more is better. If some from anywhere is good, more from anywhere is better. That seems to be the logic and the rationale. 
   I would submit there is a lot more to building an American exceptionalism than simply saying we are a nation of immigrants and that is all we need to know about this subject matter. No, this is a very deep, very complicated subject matter that ties together everything we know about history, everything we know about human nature, everything we know about sociology and biology, and the common sense of geographical origins that come along, and the commonalities of language, common interests, those things all tie us together. 
   But what we have done here in America, founded a nation upon the rule of law, perhaps I will get to that a little bit later. 
   But we are tied together by a common language. That is something that is not unique to the United States, a common language has defined nation states from the beginning. When we get  away from the common language that fractures the nation state, and you become squabbling minorities that are bickering against each other, forming and shaping ourselves in ethnic enclaves and pitted against each other because one side of this aisle believes in rights of group rights and victimhood. 
   The other side of the aisle over here believes in individual rights and personal responsibility and the commonalities of equal justice under the law. 
   But the things that tie us together are a common history, common experiences, common goals, a common cause. But we couldn't understand those things if we didn't have a common language. This great experiment of America has been founded upon a common language. This common language ties us together. 
   Then as we look across the vitality that we have within this country, this American exceptionalism that I mentioned a little bit earlier, you would be thinking in terms of where did this American exceptionalism come from? Why do we have it here, and why is that vitality nonexistent in many of the other countries that were donor countries to the United States in the form of the immigrants that they sent to us over the years, over the 200 to 300 years that we have received, accepted and welcomed immigrants into America? 
   I would look back at that and think about my oldest ancestor that we can trace back, at least on my mother's side of the family. One of them would have been a gentleman by the name of Samuel Powell who came here, and he was a Welshman who came over here in 1757 to become an indentured servant. 
   He landed in Baltimore. He had nothing. He pledged to work for 7 years to work off his passage to the United States. So he worked in the stables to work off his passage. This gentleman was kicked by a horse, crippled for life. We know that as there is a little hardbound book about it. 
   Still, through the course of his lifetime, he was the father of 17 children, and those descendents fanned out across the country, and they added to the vitality of America, as many of the children of immigrants and the children of immigrants have. 
   But there was something in the vitality of Samuel Powell, that vitality that is a component that exists within many, many of, and I will say most of, and perhaps almost all of those who come to America. That vitality gives them the courage and the confidence, the fortitude and the adventuresome spirit to get on a ship with everything that they have, mortgage their future for their passage, and come here to reach for their dreams in the United States of America. 
   That vitality that gave them that courage and that confidence, that boldness of spirit was like a filter that skimmed the vitality off of the other civilizations and cultures around the world. As they got out of Ireland and Sweden and out of Germany and out of Italy, and as they came from other places around the globe and came here, and certainly out of Scotland and England as well, and this goes back to our history 100 years ago, as they came over here, they brought that vitality with them. Often we saw that vitality within them, and we identified that as a national characteristic that came from the country that they came from.     
   One of the questions that I ask in my district, I have a wonderful Dutch region in the northwestern part of my district there in Iowa, and it is idyllic communities that are the best combination that anyone could ask for, the absolutely ideal combination of churches to banks to bars in a community. Plenty of churches and a lot of capital in the banks and just a few bars, not hardly any. And their quality of life, and it is strong, and the young children grow up and they expect to build their future in those communities. They are not taking that diploma and going somewhere else in the world to cash it in for the biggest paycheck they can get. Some do. Many come home. Many stay home, rebuild and build their lives there and have their children there, raise their parents' grandchildren right there within the same neighborhood. That is an ideal circumstance that they have. 
   And I ask them, how is it that you have got such ideal communities here in the Dutch areas of Iowa, and I go over to Holland, and there they have abortion on demand, euthanasia, they have prostitution, they have legalized drugs. They have one of the most liberal countries in the world, one of the most permissive, but yet one of the most closed societies in the world where you could never go over there and become a Dutchman. And yet so many things that they do permit in that very liberal society are things that we would reject in our communities, and I have listed some of them. Why is it then that we have such a wholesome, rich community in an area that I have described in western Iowa, and we have the different environment in Holland entirely, and especially in the communities like Amsterdam? And their answer to me, with only a little bit of sense of irony is, well, the good Dutch came here. 
   And, Mr. Speaker, I tell this story because it identifies the source of American exceptionalism. The good Dutch came here. So did the good English, so did the good Spanish, so did the good French, so did the good Norwegians and Swedes and Germans and Irish and all the way down the line. Western Europe were the first big donors to this American society that we have here. And we have also picked up a significant amount of exceptionalism and vitality from our neighbors to the south. 
   And so I want to point this out and emphasize in a very serious way how important it is that we be smart and we be careful with our immigration policy and understand that we are defining an immigration policy that should enhance our economic, our social and our cultural well-being here in the United States of America in a selfish way. Any nation state should have that kind of an immigration policy. It should be promoting them. They should be building their future, whatever country they might be. 
   We need to do it here. We need to set this American destiny on a glide path that soars way beyond the aspirations that I hear here in this place and that I even hear out in the streets of America where there is more optimism than there is here in this Congress, Mr. Speaker. We need to set our destiny and control it from here, and we have got to have a vision, we have got to have a dream, and we need to understand the foundations of what has made us great as a Nation. And we need to be looking for new things, new principles, new ideas, new tools that might, just might, supplement the time-honored tradition and principles and tools that were gifted to us from God through our Founding Fathers that are the foundation of this great Nation. 
   But American exceptionalism is one of them. The foundation of the rule of law is another one, Mr. Speaker. And in spite of all of the things that we read about in our history and so much of the glorious past and some of the marginal, shameful events that took place in our history, this Nation has been a Nation that has been grounded on, built upon, rooted in and a pillar of which is the rule of law. The rule of law is sacrosanct in America. And when we set aside the rule of law, it diminishes us all. It erodes everyone's constitutional rights when someone else is given a pass by the law. And so if we are allowed to drive down the highway at 70 miles an hour in a 55-mile-an-hour zone, and if we pass the Highway Patrol, and even if they happen to pull us over and they say, well, you know, everybody breaks the law, so I am not going to write you up on this 70 in a 55 zone, then pretty soon everybody drives 70, and they will push it up to 75. If they don't get a ticket at 75, then they may go 80. They will drive as fast as they can until they get scared. Then they will slow down a little. That is human nature, and we have known that from the studies on our highways. But too low a speed limit breeds contempt for the rule of law, but enforcement of any speed limit breeds respect for the rule of law. 
   The same is so with our immigration laws, Mr. Speaker, if we have immigration laws that are not enforced, or the foundation of this rule of law is it applies to everyone equally. So if our immigration laws are not enforced equally to all people in this country, then also it breeds contempt for the law. And if we allow the contempt for the law to be bred, then it undermines the  rule of law, it undermines this Constitution, and it weakens the rights of individuals. 
   This Constitution I carry in my pocket all days. I have sworn to uphold this Constitution, and I will do so. It is an oath that I take seriously, and, in fact, in spite of some of the news that has come down here, that we don't swear in to the new Congress on the Bible, some of us do bring our Bible down here and do swear in on the Bible, and we take that seriously, as did George Washington. And some of us, in fact, all of us, should add ``so help me God'' when we take that oath. 
   But this Constitution is the foundation for our law. And, in fact, it is the descendant of the Declaration of Independence, the foundation for our law. It is the framework of justice in America writ large. It is the framework of government in America writ large. And we need to adhere to the language that is here and the intent that is here and the original text that is here in this Constitution, Mr. Speaker. 
   And I continue to intend to do that, and I am sworn to uphold this rule of law. And so when I go back to my district, and we have had a finally, at long last, a Department of Homeland Security raid on some of the meat packing around my neighborhood, within the adjoining States and within the State of Iowa, and about 1,282 individuals were picked up and loaded up, and charges were brought against many of them for immigration violations and also for fraudulent documents and document theft. When that happens, and there were truckloads of hogs that were stacked up waiting to go into the packing plant, and there wasn't enough labor there, and actually the plants were temporarily shut down. The hogs had to stay on the trucks. There were a few that were lost. Most were not so badly treated. That is one of the elements we don't talk about so much. But also families were affected, children were affected, and we have debated across that. 
   But when I go before the pork producers and they say, we need to have people in these packing plants to process our livestock, we have got to have a market for the livestock that we raise, we have got to make sure that they can harvest on the days they are supposed to be, and that meat can be processed, packaged and delivered to the meat case so we have got a continuous 
   supply and a continuous flow of our product, however urgent they sense that to be, however focused they are on the problem that is in front of them, and remember, people have a tendency to look at the world through their straw. It is rare for us to step back and look at the big picture and try to add up all the components, or look at the world through somebody else's eyes, let alone look at the world through everybody else's eyes if we would could possibly do that. And that is partly my job is to ask people to look at the world through somebody else's eyes. 
   And so as they say, we need that labor, we can't be shutting down plants because of illegal labor, we have got to find another solution, that is no solution. I ask them, point blank, I understand how important this is to your industry, but are you willing to sacrifice the rule of law in America to be sure that it is convenient, and that you don't have to go out and recruit for labor someplace other than outside the United States for people that will come into the plant? 
   Wouldn't you rather maybe pay a couple bucks more an hour and hire people that are already here, hire some of the 30 percent of America that are high school dropouts; hire some of the 69 million people in America that are simply not in the workforce, but are of working age? 
   We only have about 6.9 million working illegals in America, Mr. Speaker, and we have 69 million nonworking, not in the workforce, Americans. So wouldn't a logical Nation just look around and say, well, let's try and hire? First we would go hire some of those folks that are on unemployment. And we are not at a historically low unemployment level. That was 1.3 during World War II. And I recognize that was all hands on deck. But still we have quite a ways to go, and we can drop more than 3 points before we get down to the levels of unemployment that we had during World War II. But that is not enough to fill the gap. And if we take the people that are on welfare now and that are hirable, and maybe if that is half, and that might be a lot, you put those together with those that are unemployed. If you take the 4.4 percent unemployment and take that down to 1.3 percent, World War II levels, and then reach in and hire half of those that are on welfare and put them to work, you still don't have enough people there to replace the 6.9 million working illegal immigrants in the American workforce. But where you can find them is to go into the 69 million nonworking Americans that are not in the workforce, many of whom are presumably healthy and can be hired. 
   And the answer that I get when I propose that is, well, they aren't in the right place. They don't live where we need them. They are not sitting there next to the job. And so therefore, we should what? Let's go 2,000 or 3,000 miles away and go get some people out of a different country and bring them here, against the law, to replace the need for a workforce that you could replace if you just simply went someplace else in America and put some people in a car, on a bus, on a plane or on Amtrak and send them down there. 
   I mean, I can give you an example, Mr. Speaker. When the raid came in on the Swift and Company at Marshalltown, Iowa, and they picked up about 90 workers there, so presumably there were 90 jobs that were open at that moment, there was a couple, an African American couple, from down in the Dallas area that loaded up and drove from Texas all the way up to Marshalltown, Iowa, went to the H.R. office at Swift and Company and said, we would like to have a job working here processing this meat. We drove a long ways to get here, and now we would like to resettle to Texas, to Marshalltown, middle of the winter, Texas to Marshalltown for those jobs. 
   That kind of answers the questions that there are jobs that Americans won't do. At least there is a personalized example of it, Mr. Speaker. And statistically there are many. But the argument that the people aren't in the right place doesn't hold up. In fact, the Okies weren't in the right place in the '30s, and they loaded up the things that they had, like the Clampetts in a way, and went on off to California and built the economy out there, and they must have been pretty good because the economy blossomed in California after the arrival of the Okies. And so people can be transferred for labor. 
   There was a mass migration from the American South to the industrial areas in the Northern States that took place also about that era. And I recall that as that migration took place, we saw concentrations of African Americans moving into the industrial cities. Detroit would be a good example of that. Cleveland would be another good example of that. They came and they took the jobs and went to work. They were good-paying jobs. They did their jobs, and they raised their families there. And some of those young people went off to college, became professionals and moved off. Others went back and went to work in the same plants that their parents did. 
   But I recall, Mr. Speaker, reading an article in the Des Moines Register some years ago. They had gone into Milwaukee and picked a 36-square-block neighborhood in Milwaukee, and it was a neighborhood that was totally inhabited by people or descendants of that migration from the gulf coast Mississippi area that came up into Milwaukee to take the brewery jobs that were good-paying jobs then. Now, that was back in the '30s, and now, by this time, oh, about the turn of the last millennia, I will say, maybe 1998 or '99, they surveyed those, every house in that 36-square-block area. There wasn't a single working head of household in all homes in that 36-block area. And the article was full of lament as to why government couldn't figure out a way to move some jobs up there to Milwaukee and establish those jobs close enough to the people that lived there that didn't have work that they could then have jobs again. 
   Well, how did government fail the people that are sitting in that 36-square-block area, 6 blocks by 6 blocks in Milwaukee? How did government fail was the focus of the article. And, Mr. Speaker, I will point out that government didn't fail. It never was government's job. It wasn't government that moved them from the gulf coast  up to Milwaukee in the '30s, and it wasn't government that moved the Okies from Oklahoma to California in the '30s. It was the promise of jobs that relocated people. They did it on their own. 
   I mean, after all, that is how the illegal immigrants got here, wasn't it? Billboards in Mexico. People migrated up and took the jobs. People move for jobs. I have done it. Many of us have done it. In fact, most of us have done it. And to imagine that Americans can't relocate to take a job is a pretty weak position to take if you are going to set the direction for the destiny of America. 
   But the rule of law, the rule of law is a pillar, it is a foundation, it is essential. And we are embroiled in a central debate here in America on this rule of law. 
   Now, the Senate will be introducing legislation next week that will be comprehensive immigration reform. That is White House language for we are going to take some people that are here, and we are going to give them the path to citizenship. And you are going to hear an argument and a debate about what is the right, the just, the true, the appropriate path for us as a Nation, a compassionate Nation, yes, a Nation that cares about all people, not just within the borders of the sovereign State of the United States of America. We care about the well-being of people all over the globe.     
   No Nation has been generous as the United States of America has been. We have provided more resources for more people. We have sacrificed more lives for liberty and freedom. We have poured more treasure out to the rest of the world than any nation in history by any model or comparison that anyone can create or come up with or convolute, for that matter. And yet we are being accused of being a cold hearted, unkind Nation because we have an obligation to control our borders so we can define ourselves as a Nation. 
   And I will argue that if we give amnesty to the people that have broken our laws and who are in violation of our laws and unlawfully present here on the soil of the United States, if we grant them amnesty, we have kicked aside the rule of law. We have knocked the pillar out, the foundational pillar, from underneath this great citadel of the United States of America. And if the rule of law is gone, what then holds up our values here? 
   What then supports this Constitution that I have put back in my pocket, Mr. Speaker? How do we argue ever again that there is a foundation that exists that we should adhere to the rule of law, that we should respect and protect and defend it, how could we, if this Congress granted amnesty to law breakers in America, gave them a free pass at the encouragement and behest of the White House and the administration, who are focused on this, at the encouragement of the left wing liberals in the United States Senate that are advocating for open borders because they know they can count the masses of illegals whether they are here legally or not, whether they are ever allowed to vote or not, they know that it provides representation here on the floor of the United States Congress. 
   There are Members of this Congress that won't need more than 30,000 votes to be re-elected or elected to this Congress. They are the ones that represent districts that are full of illegal immigrants that are counted in the census for reapportionment purposes. So my 600,000 people, where it takes over 100,000 votes to get re-elected in my district even in a nonpresidential year, has less representation per capita, the citizens in my district have less representation per capita than the citizens in the districts that have high concentrations of illegal immigrant population, because we draw the lines around about 600,000 people. 
   And if there are 400,000 illegals in a single district, that means there are only 200,000 citizens. And if they go to the polls and register and vote, that means there might only be 50,000 of them that will actually vote that are of the age to vote and that will take the trouble to do so. That is a gross distortion of the intent of our Framers, and it is clearly a distortion of the concept of our Constitution and it is a distortion of the understanding of equal representation that the taxpayers and the citizens of America expect from us. We need to address that. But before we do that, we are going to need to address this amnesty issue, this amnesty question, that will be before the Senate shortly and expecting to come over here to the House some weeks or months after that. 
   What is amnesty, Mr. Speaker? Well, it is a simple question for a person from my perspective. If you have a law and the law exists and someone breaks that law, if you reduce or eliminate the penalty for the law that they have broken after the fact, you have provided them amnesty, whether you do it en masse in a group or whether you do it as an individual. I guess as an individual you could call it a pardon. I will say amnesty is a mass pardon for people who have violated an existing law for which there is an existing penalty, and if that penalty is eliminated or reduced, then that is amnesty. 
   Now, that is not a hard concept to understand. Something that I think the vast majority of the American people will understand. I am very confident that Ronald Reagan would have understood. He signed an amnesty bill in 1986. It was one of only about two or three times that that great man let me down. But at least he had the clarity and the conscience to say this is an amnesty bill. He called it an amnesty bill. He signed it, and he also said, and we expected, that there would be enforcement of existing laws. And what happened from 1986 was the enforcement of existing laws diminished gradually over time to the point where in 2005 only three employers were sanctioned for hiring illegal employees. Only three. 
   Now, in this virtual world, I call that virtually no enforcement in the workplace. Virtually none. In fact, when I went down and welded on the fence, I really wanted a virtual welder and a virtual welding rod and a virtual hood so that I could weld some of that virtual fence that I think will only virtually stop people in the end if we don't have the manpower in there to do the job. And I think we have to put up literal barriers to get this done and we can't rely on virtual anything because we will virtually go through a lot of semantics, linguistic semantics, to be able to reach our political goals, but the subject matter and the efficiency is what we need to be after here, the rule of law. 
   Amnesty. There can be no amnesty, and that is where this fight will turn. That is where this debate will turn. That is where it is going to turn in the Senate, and I said last year that those that supported an amnesty bill will be marked with the scarlet letter ``A'' for ``amnesty,'' and they will be held accountable by the voters in the ballot box. And the House and the Senate heard that call and the threat and the danger of those that came close to losing their jobs over there and the ones that are worried about it in 2008. And yet I heard we lost people here because they were for border control, and it is interesting to me that those couple of Members, only two that I can think of, were very strong on border security lost elections last fall. Their opponents, the ones who defeated them, also were advocating for strong border enforcement and employment enforcement in the workplace. 
   So I don't think there is a case that anyone lost an election because they were for border security. I think there were those that were jeopardized because they came late to the subject or they didn't understand the conviction of it. But most, if not all, made some commitment at some level that they are going to support it. Stop the bleeding at the border. Get it under control. Push all traffic through the ports of entry; all human traffic, legal and illegal; all product, both contraband and legal product, through the ports of entry we should support that in this Congress unequivocally. 
   There should be no effort to undermine that and there should be no effort to create a scenario by which we can turn a blind eye to illegal crossings on the border. That is something that is sacrosanct that all of us should agreed to. And I would challenge anyone to stand up now or later, and I would be happy to yield: Do you oppose the idea that we secure our borders and seal them so that all traffic will go through the ports of entry? If anybody wants to oppose that, I will be happy to yield. I don't think that is going to happen. That is number one.  
   Number two means we have got to enforce our employer sanctions, and employers have to understand that if they are going to knowingly and willfully hire illegals, then we are going to have to knowingly and willfully, with our enforcement mechanisms, go in there and punish the employers that have a business plan that is premised upon the hiring of illegal labor. And that happens all over this country. 
   I am watching it happen and it is permeating us more and more, and our resistance is breaking it down more and more. Do we have an amnesty plan for employers that are paying corporate income tax off the profits that they made off the backs of cheap labor at the expense of America's middle class? This middle class is forever shrinking because we are growing an upper class. The elitists believe they have a right to cheap labor, the servant class, as they see it, whether they admit it or not, and the growth of this lower class, this servant class that is coming. 
   No nation ever failed because of a lack of cheap labor. Can anybody look back at history and name a single nation that didn't have enough cheap labor; so their economy collapsed? I would say none. It has never happened in all of history. But many nations have descended into a squabbling cacophony of minorities that couldn't get along, that didn't have a sense of nationhood, didn't have a sense of common history, didn't have a common language, didn't have literacy skills or job skills but simply pulled the whole system down and put pressure on the social services. 
   The wait that is there, we are growing our lower class, that class that the elitists see as a servant class, and we are growing our upper class because of the prosperity that comes really from the Bush tax cuts that we have had for 2001 and 2003. And as this growth continues, the upper class grows, they think it is all to their credit. Now, they earned a lot of it. They got their education. They invested their money wisely. They worked hard and smart and they made money, and I am glad they are building their million dollar mansions. Maybe one day an older used one will be a good place for me to spend my retirement. I am happy for them. 
   And they will move out of a modest home so someone with a more modest income can move in there. It is a natural progression. But they have no right and essentially have no birth right to cheap labor to enrich them. 
   America has been about expanding the middle class, making it broader and making it more prosperous. And this immigration policy, or, I should say, a lack of enforcement on this immigration policy, is shrinking the middle class, compressing them so they can't make the upward mobility, and it is narrowing the middle class because these 30 percent of the high school dropouts that don't have a high school education and a greater percentage that don't have a college education as a cumulative total at least, those people are dropping off into the lower class too. 
   And where are their opportunities, Mr. Speaker? Where do they go to get a job? How does someone with, say, my background, only the age of 17 or 18 or 19 or 20, get started in where my life has been, in the construction business? If I had walked out on the pipeline at age 19 and asked for a job to swamp on the bending crew so I could run 10 miles a day in the dust with a hard hat on my head and get thrown around on the end of a piece of pipe in August going through the cornfields, they wouldn't give a job to a kid today, some blue-eyed white kid that walked up there and wanted a job, because there would already be some people there who had arrived in the United States that were cheap illegal labor that would work cheaper and give them less trouble and those that wouldn't have a workers' comp claim because they would be afraid they would be deported. There wouldn't be an unemployment claim. They wouldn't be any unemployment, any workers' comp. There wouldn't be any lawsuits. They would either show up on time or somebody else would show up to take the job. 
   It is a lot less trouble to work with people that are living in the shadows because they are afraid that the spotlight will come on them. And so you have a meek, docile labor force, and an employer that is making a rational decision with his capital is going to go that route. And we have enabled it here in the United States of America, and now we have become dependent upon a pretty good size supply of illegal labor. And every day that goes by, another person, another company figures out a way to make some profit off of the illegal population that is here in the United States. 
   And I feel a little guilty that I sold my construction business to my oldest son because he has to compete against competitors who will be knowingly and willfully finding that avenue to hire that cheap illegal labor, and he has to find a way to be more efficient so he can compete against them because he is going to follow the law. I know he will follow the law. That is the way he is raised, that is the way he believes, and that is his conviction. Those that follow the law are at a disadvantage today because they are being undermined by people who premise their business on hiring illegal labor. 
   And here we come to the financial institutions that are issuing credit cards to people that don't have a Social Security number. What an outrageous thing, to see large banking companies decide they can find a way to turn a profit and undermine our immigration laws in the United States and essentially provide another avenue that is going to encourage people to continue to break the law, come here, stay here. 
   But amnesty, Mr. Speaker, is a central question that is before us. Will we uphold the rule of law or will we kick the pillar out from underneath the United States of America? Will we stand on the principle of no amnesty no time for people who have come in here illegally that we will uphold the rule of law, we will enforce it? And the people who are going to advocate for amnesty, and it will be coming out of the Senate and it is coming to this floor in here in the House of Representatives sometime within the next few months, that path to amnesty needs to be a trail of tears. 
   And that is a trail of tears that needs to be created by people on the streets of America, in the homes, in the backyards, in the schools, in the churches, in the workplaces. They need to get on their phones. They need to get on their e-mail. They need to call their Members of Congress. They need to write letters to the editor. They need to call the talk radio shows, write articles and get them printed. They need to gin up their neighbors. They need to come to the streets and stand up for the rule of law and oppose amnesty and put that scarlet letter ``A'' for ``amnesty'' and brand those that stand up for amnesty here because if you stand for amnesty, you are opposed to the rule of law, and there is no other way to measure this. 
   And you can't say to someone you are going to go to the back of the line. They are not going to send them to the back of the line. That is not in the heart or the head of the White House. It is not going to happen. Those that are here illegally, the only way they could go to the back of the line would be to have to go back to their home country and get into the line behind the people that are legally in the line from their home country. No one has advocated that, Mr. Speaker. That is not going to happen. They don't want to disturb the lives of the people who came here to live in the shadows. They want to offer that they come out into the sunlight and grant them a path to citizenship. And if that isn't a blatant definition of amnesty, I have no idea what is. 
   But there is actual a serious discussion about we could make them pay a fine. We could penalize them by making them learn English. 
   Penalize them by making them learn English? I think that should be a privilege and a goal because that will give access to the American Dream. But if you are here as a criminal, and there is an objection to that term, but if people have come into the United States illegally, then they have violated a criminal misdemeanor for illegal border crossing, unlawful presence in the United States, and that is punishable by deportation. That is the punishment that needs to be there. There can't be anything less. And to have them pay a fine of $1,500 when a coyote is going to charge $2,000 to $3,000 for a trip into the United States just says, well, the path to citizenship is for sale for $1,500. If you can scratch up the scratch to do that, we can give you a path to citizenship.  
   And the United States Senate and a lot of the liberals here in the United States House would say, Fine. Here is your green card. Here is your path to citizenship. Forget about that part about breaking the law and getting your reward for breaking the law, but be a good citizen otherwise. How can anyone who is given a reward for breaking the law and gets to go to the front of the line, how can they respect the rule of law?     
   How can anyone who is given a reward for breaking the law and gets to go to the front of the line, how can they respect the rule of law? How can it be when you get stopped for speeding, if they give you a ticket to speed, or if you get arrested for robbing a bank and they say, well, okay, but we are going to give you amnesty, take the loot and go, be happy; but just forget that one time we didn't enforce the law on you, and so for now on respect the rule of law? Madam Speaker, it does not work that way. That is not the nature of humanity. Humanity is going to follow this path of least resistance; if they see an opening, they are going to go. And if they have an opportunity that we give them, that we grant them, they are going to take it. 
   And not only they will have contempt for the rule of law, a million back in 1986, that turned into 3 million because of the phony identification and the corruption in the Reagan amnesty, they and their descendants and their friends and their neighbors, almost all of them believe that amnesty is a good idea because they were the beneficiaries of amnesty; just like a bank robber that gets to keep the loot thinks robbing banks is a good idea and will go back and do it again if he runs out of money. 
   Now, think about doing that with 12 million or 20 million or, by the numbers that came out of the Senate the last time, 66.1 million would be legalized by the Senate version. That would be the cumulative total of all who were naturalized in the United States in all of our history. 
   I thank you for your focus, Mr. Speaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RETIRING LEGISLATIVE DIRECTOR, PAULA L. STEINER -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, initially in the time that you have recognized me for, I would like today to announce to the House that had I been present for the vote on H.R. 6, the energy bill which passed this floor 314-100, I would have voted ``yes'' on that bill.  
   Madam Speaker, today the House passed H.R. 6 by a vote of 314-100. This legislation contained a large increase in the Renewable Fuel Standard that will greatly benefit to the western Iowa ethanol producers that I represent. 
   While previous versions of H.R. 6 also contained an increased RFS, they also contained a large tax increase placed on the backs the oil and gas industry. I opposed the previous versions of H.R. 6 for this reason. I oppose tax increases, and I especially oppose tax increases when they will hurt consumers like the Iowa farmers I represent. 
   Madam Speaker, I am on record as stating that we need more Btu's of energy in America that are produced in America. We need more ethanol, biodiesel, wind, solar, clean coal, oil, gas, nuclear, and geothermal. 
   America has the ability to produce the Btu's, Congress just needs to remove the restraints so that industry can produce these Btu's. We need to allow the American energy industry to expand the size of the energy pie. 
   Every once in a while in each Member's congressional career, there come times when things happen that are beyond our control. At the time the vote occurred, I was detained by a prior engagement. Madam Speaker, I believe in the future of bio-fuels. I think this bill did some good things for them. However, this bill also contained some provisions that I do not agree with. 
   H.R. 6 contained Davis-Bacon provisions. This labor law is the product of Jim Crow laws and needs to be abolished. I may be the only Member of Congress, I know of no others, who has earned Davis-Bacon wages and paid Davis-Bacon wages, and I have lived underneath that for over 30 years, 28 years writing paychecks, over 14 consecutive months meeting payroll. I know what this does. I can tell you the history of it also goes back to an Iowan, an Iowan President, Herbert Hoover. 
   This is the last remaining Jim Crow law on the books that I know of. It was designed to keep blacks out of the construction trade in New York. Davis-Bacon is prevailing wage by definition, union scale in practice. There is no other way to analyze this. Union scale is what gets produced when the Department of Labor produces the proposed prevailing wage. 
   As an earth moving contractor, I know first hand how Davis-Bacon prevented my Small Business from competing in the market place. Small businesses are discouraged from bidding on Davis-Bacon public projects because of the complex and archaic rules. The inflated wage requirements and significant redtape burdens of Davis-Bacon shut small employers out of the Federal construction market. 
   The Davis-Bacon wage mandate also inflates the price tag for public, construction projects--costing you your hard earned taxpayer dollars. 
   There was over a billion dollars invested in renewable energy in my district last year. There will be over a billion dollars invested this year. All this was done without Davis-Bacon. If Congress is going to impose Davis-Bacon wage scales on rail improvement and carbon sequestration it will burn up at least 20 percent of the capital that can be used. 
   Regardless of my feelings about Davis-Bacon, I would have voted ``yes'' for this bill. I would ask that the record reflect this.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (HOLDING THE LINE ON DEBT AND THE ENERGY CRISIS -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I appreciate the privilege to be recognized here on the floor of the House of the United States Congress. 
   I have sat here through the last hour and patiently listened to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, and one of the things that comes out clearly is the tone of the message that they deliver. 
   I have heard this 30-Something Group now, I think I must be into about the sixth year of listening to this, and it seemed to me that at some point they would maybe get over their bitterness about President Bush winning an election in Florida twice, and all the recounts they could come up with still came up with the same result and they still carry the same resentment that the will of the people was reflected. And the bitterness that emerges in this discussion and the implications that come that challenge the motives of the President are disturbing to me, and particularly their remarks that have to do with allegations about: You put two Big Oil people in the White House, and this is what you get, is high oil prices. A lot of us that watch the policy will say we know better than that, Madam Speaker, and I know better than that for a lot of reasons. 
   As I look down through this, I am going to pick up the oil in just a moment, but I think where I would like to step in here first is to deal with the issue of the national debt. Now, some of the gentlemen on the other side of the aisle were clearly stating that they believe that they could have managed their way into not eliminating the national debt alone but providing for a surplus. They say: We could have paid off all the national debt if you would have just allowed us to be in charge. We would have made the right decisions. 
   So I listened to all that, and I tried to put myself, Madam Speaker, in a position of what it would be like for a person in a living room in someplace across the United States, or maybe someone who just pulled into the motel or the hotel and turned on their C-SPAN, turned on their television, they are surfing through there and came across C-SPAN or heard something like that, that the folks on that side of the aisle, if you would have been in charge, you would have paid off the national debt, which means if it is paid off, there must be a surplus. 
   That is by simple, easy deduction and because the allegation is the folks that were in charge were irresponsible, supposedly. 
   So I thought, all right, what do I remember? What is real? What are some of the facts? And I can think in this 110th Congress, this Pelosi Congress, this Congress that is characterized by San Francisco values, Massachusetts values, and budget mismanagement, these are the things that come to mind on me. And some of them, it has been the Republican minority who has fought aggressively to protect the interests of the taxpayers. These are the things that I just wrote down off the top of my head, and it is by no means a complete list. It isn't even close: 
   Republicans held the line and saved the taxpayers $40 billion on the State  Children's Health Insurance Program, which I support as a State senator, which I support at 200 percent of poverty, which today is 200 percent of poverty still providing health insurance premiums for those children in families of four making in my State over $52,000 a year. 
   Now, we are helping those folks out some. They--most might make it on their own; in fact, I know some families that do make it on their own without tapping into the SCHIP program. But this agenda was driven off of this floor, Madam Speaker, and pushed by Nancy Pelosi, the San Francisco values, at 400 percent of poverty. That bill, that SCHIP bill would have expanded this funding of health insurance premium for kids and families in my State, of families of four making over $103,000 a year. 
   Now, who is left to subsidize? If we are going to subsidize families that are making six figures, $103,000 a year, who is going to pay that tax? Well, presumably not anybody that is making less. We know that there were 70,000 families in America that were paying the alternative minimum tax which this Congress, this Pelosi-led Congress can't seem to get around to repealing the alternative minimum tax. But 70,000 families in America would have been paying the alternative minimum tax and been receiving a Federal subsidy for their health insurance premiums. 
   The whole thing of socialized medicine and the Nanny Pelosi State has come full circle, and the overlap of what subsidized for health insurance premiums for families of 200 percent of poverty would have gone to 400 percent; and families that were paying the rich man's tax, the alternative minimum tax, expands because it is not indexed for inflation. Over into that loop were 70,000 families paying the alternative minimum tax and getting help with health insurance premiums. That is bizarre. 
   That is what we stopped. We blocked the 400 percent of poverty that would have funded families of four making $103,000 a year with somebody else's tax dollars and created more dependency. We blocked their effort to lay the cornerstone of socialized medicine, Hillary Care, the care that I called SCHIP, the Socialized Clinton Style Hillary Care for children and their parents was blocked by a Republican majority of fiscally responsible people, and we still maintained a program at 200 percent of poverty to help out those families so their children would have health insurance. That is one thing we did, $40 billion. 
   The second thing we did, we fought the battle and I think in the end we have got a reasonable chance of winning the war, Barney Frank's $300 billion bailout of a $150 billion subprime problem, the idea that folks could come in and borrow up to 100 percent to buy a home that they can't make the payments on, just betting on the idea that the value of that home would appreciate and go up, maybe they could roll it into a fancier home in a few years and then refinance without any of their own equity in the home. That was going on in this country, especially in places on the Left Coast and on the East Coast. It wasn't going on nearly as much in the Midwest. 
   But there are people all across this country that were saving their money, that were saving up to the 20 percent down or maybe 29 percent down. They looked around, and said, well, all right, now for 10 or 15 years they put their money together and came up with $20,000 and decided, ``I want to buy a home.'' And they went out and shopped the marketplace and did the responsible thing and laid their $20,000 down and moved into a $100,000 home. In a lot of parts of the country that is a modest home; in my part of the country, that is a pretty decent home. They laid their $20,000 down and they could make their payments on the $80,000 left. 
   But now, the Barney Frank subprime bailout bill at $300 billion says: Now we are going to tax you, the families, the middle-income families, especially in the modest homes that put their 20 percent down on their modest home, tax those people to bail out the folks that had nothing down and moved into a $400,000 home, all to the tune of creating an increase in the deficit in this country by $300 billion. That is the bill that came off this floor. That is the bill that is over in the Senate. That is the one that I hope they can knock in the head. We don't need to do that. 
   And there was another one, a grab bag of ``I Want List'' off-budget for $168 billion. Those things popped in my head quickly, and I am seeing numbers of $1 trillion here and $1 trillion there roll off of the 30-Something Group. In my short little piece here, I wrote down $508 billion of irresponsible spending. Much of it Republicans have been successful in killing because it was irresponsible. That is more than one-half trillion dollars just in my memory in this short Congress, not in the full duration of 12 years in the majority, in which their grievance list goes back well beyond that. 
   And then, this group of people has the audacity to put out a whole series of proposals on energy because they know the American people are tired of paying high gas prices. 
   Now, I have sat in this Congress for these years. I started out in the 108th Congress, but I will take us back. I have some numbers here that come from the 106th, 108th, 109th Congress, and these are Congresses that were led by Republican majority and these were efforts that were brought forward that would have lowered the cost of energy in its entirety, especially the cost of gas.     
   These are bills that went over to the Senate from the House. Mr. Speaker, I hope you write this down and do a little research on this. 
   H.R. 1655, from the 106th Congress, the Department of Energy Research, Development, and Demonstration Authorization Act, that passed the House and went to the Senate. That was on September 15th of 1999. Also, H.R. 3822, another energy bill, the Oil Price Reduction Act, that passed the House on March 22nd of 2000. It went to the Senate, and it died in committee. 
   Also, in the 108th Congress, I'll name three other bills: H.R. 3062, H.R. 4503, H.R. 4517. They all passed the House in the 108th Congress. All would have lowered energy prices. All would have provided more energy in the marketplace. All died in the Senate. 
   In the 109th Congress--that's the Congress ahead of this one--H.R. 6, the Energy Policy Act, passed the House on April 21, 2005. That happens to be my mother's birthday. Senate action: They removed the ANWR provision that passed out of this House. It died over there. Others that passed in that Congress are H.R. 2863 and H.R. 5429 and H.R. 4761, all energy bills, all bills that passed the House, all bills, by the memo I'm looking at, at least, that didn't make it out of the Senate, that didn't come back to the House, that didn't go to conference. They just died over there. They died over there not because of Republicans in the Senate. They died over there because of the 40 Democrats who blocked the bill, the filibuster rule that they have. As long as they're able to do that, they can be in the minority, and they can block good legislation in the Senate. 
   That, Mr. Speaker, is what happened in the last three Congresses ahead of this one, this 110th Congress that we are in. 
   I didn't mention the 107th Congress. As for the 106th, 108th and 109th Congresses, all of those Congresses passed energy legislation bills. All of them would have contributed to the supply. They would have reduced the regulation. Some of them would have provided for the siting of refineries on decommissioned military bases, and part of that legislation out of here would have allowed drilling in ANWR. Part of it would have opened up the Outer Continental Shelf to at least some degree. 
   We sit here in this Congress, and a question that came up more than a year ago was: What is the solution for $3 gas? I happen to have a little chart that might help illustrate this. 
   Now, George Bush was really put up to be the demon here, in listening to the folks who spoke ahead of me, so I thought I'd put a little piece of fact up for people to take a look at, Mr. Speaker. Here are the facts. This is just slightly dated, but I can bring it up to date. This is pretty close. 
   This is the time that George Bush was sworn in as President of the United States. Gas was $1.49. Oh, boy. Don't we wish we had those days today. 
   As I move forward, we come to the point where Nancy Pelosi was sworn in as Speaker. Gas had gone up to $2.33 a gallon. I'd be happy to go back to  those days, and so would every American if we could make the deal today to hold gas at $2.33, but look at how long it took to get to the $2.33 from the $1.49. 
   When Bush was sworn in as President and, yes, when the speculators in the world and when the investors in the world and when the oil companies in the world and when the sovereign wealth funds in the nations that control much of the world's energy supply saw what was happening here in this country--that the United States had lost its ability to pass legislation out of this House and send it to the Senate, let alone to a Senate that would pass it and send it to the President, who would have signed, I think, every one of these bills that I've read off here--then your energy prices shot up. $4.08 is slightly dated. It's probably $4.10 or $4.11 today. So that tells you what's actually going on here. 
   If you take energy off the market, if you increase regulation, if you come out and you make noise about windfall profits taxes, I can tell you what I'd do if I were sitting on the board of directors of an energy company, and Congress had said, ``I want to come in and tax you after the fact.'' I would start to look for other places to put my capital, where I could get a return that wasn't going to be punished after the fact by Congress. 
   So I don't think that people on the other side of the aisle here, for the most part, understand this free market system that's here. I don't think they understand supply and demand. They convinced me of that today in a hearing on the Ag Committee. It was all about trying to regulate the futures market on energy. There were six different witnesses, and I lost track, actually, of how many bills were there, but some of those bills were drafted years ago, 1 or 2 or 3 years ago, when I would have thought that, maybe, their focus on this regulation of the futures market would have come within the last 2 or 3 months rather than in the last 2 or 3 years. 
   They convinced me, because those Members of Congress had been working that long on the futures market, that it actually indicates supply and demand on energy in the world, and it lets the people who are watching those markets understand at least what the people who are speculating on that market think is going to be there for supply and demand. They don't have the confidence in that. They think that they need to get in there and regulate the market, regulate the market, take the futures out of the energy equation because, as the gentleman from Maryland said, there must be some margin in there somewhere, and we've got to squeeze every drop out of it. Well, they're providing a service with the futures market, and that allows people to hedge, and you've got to let them hedge because there are people who are vulnerable to the fluctuation in energy prices. 
   Then, on top of that, supply and demand is not part of the equation on the left side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker. It's not. They convinced me of that in the hearing today. It's not or it wouldn't be proposed by the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, that we should go ahead and up the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. In a little bit, the gentleman from Pennsylvania will address that subject matter with a little more expertise than I bring to this floor, but it's a limited supply, and it's, therefore, a national emergency. 
   I can tell you that 42.6 percent of the world's export oil supply goes through the Strait of Hormuz. We have Iran threatening to shut down the Strait of Hormuz, and they know that that strait there is not just the valve that controls 42.6 percent of the world's export oil supply. That's the valve that shuts down the world economy. If they can control the strait, they can control the world economy. They know it. They've known it for a long time. Even Jimmy Carter knew it. 
   What would be the dumbest time to open up the Strategic Petroleum Reserve? Well, that would be the time when we're most vulnerable and are most threatened that someone like Iran might decide they're going to try to close down the Strait of Hormuz. 
   That limited amount of oil is there. It can't change the market very much. The markets aren't going to change unless you have a significant change in the volume. That doesn't change the volume of oil in the market. That just dumps the reserve out and leaves us vulnerable to dumping that volume. 
   Now, in looking down through a list of some of these other things, they put up a chart that showed that there are 91.5 million acres leased, and there are only 23.7 million acres producing. So they're saying go ahead and drill those acres; we're fine with that. Well, all right. I'm fine with that, too, but it doesn't matter whether you're fine with it or not. Those acres are leased. The problem is those aren't producing acres. It costs millions to sink a well in most of these places. So, if you sink a well down someplace where there's not oil, you've wasted the money. 
   I'd say, if you're serious about this, step up and join me. Let's let the leaseholders then trade off those acres for other acres. Let them use those acres to bid with in conjunction with the dollar investment. We'll let them trade out of that 23.7 million acres or, let me say, the 91.5 million leased acres that aren't being drilled on--and I'm taking your numbers at face value. I've not checked these numbers, and I'd want to do that before I'd sign onto a bill. Take a look at this. Let them trade the acres out, and you'll find out. There's no reason why an energy company doesn't want to drill unless they don't believe there's oil there, not in this market, not in this day. 
   Then you know the argument ``use it or lose it.'' 
   Well, let them use it by letting them trade those acres in for acres that are producing acres, and you'll see immediate action. They'd be happy to lose some of those acres. Open them up, and let somebody else bid on the acres that aren't being drilled. This is a prudent business decision. 
   Your theory, gentlemen, presupposes that there's oil in equal quantity under every acre that's leased whether it's drilled or whether it's not. Now, what kind of a myopic view of the underground do you have? Do you have any geologists over there in your caucus? I'm not really a geologist, but I have personally and physically drilled for oil, and I've dug more holes into Mother Earth than has anybody in this Congress. I've taken a little look at the stratification of that, and I at least have some understanding of what produces oil and what doesn't. It can't be everywhere by definition. 
   Then the position that came out over and over again is that Democrats are going to go after Big Oil. Well, Big Oil is what provides a lot of energy in this marketplace. If you cut down on the supply, you're going to raise the price some more, and you'll see this price of $4.08 go up to $5.08. Go ahead. Go after Big Oil, and see what the result is. You are not going to get oil 1 cent cheaper. That price is going to go up because you'll scare the capital out of the marketplace; you'll shut down the exploration, and you'll empower the Middle Eastern oil more because they are the sovereign wealth funds that control a significant amount of the energy. That's the mindset over here. 
   I suppose, if you say it over and over again, you'll begin to believe it, and maybe you actually do believe it, but you're not going to be able to get commonsense Americans to believe in an idea of going after Big Oil. 
   Oh, by the way, windfall profits taxes. Let's just say Exxon. I saw a piece the other day of 8.6 percent return on their capital. You want to tax windfall profits, calling an 8.6 percent return on capital a windfall profit tax? Well, if that's the case, I'll sign on with that if you'll also want to apply a windfall profits tax to every corporation in America that got a greater return than 8.6 percent. If we'd do that, we would kill the goose that laid the golden egg. We would also fix the national debt because there are a lot of companies that are going to end up getting a better return than 8.6 percent on their capital. 
   I spent 28 years in the construction business. Many times, I got a better return than 8.6 percent on the capital. I never felt guilty about a single bit of it because I earned it all competing in the marketplace, and that's what these companies are doing, too. 
   This is the one that grips Steve King, Mr. Speaker, this statement from the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Ryan). Look at the investments in biofuels, the Democrats' support for biofuels. He says that some say it's keeping gas prices down by 50 cents. Well, I wish  that were the case. I happen to represent the number 1 biofuels congressional district in America. It's the 5th District of Iowa. 
   Six years ago when I came to Congress, we hardly had an industry, but Republicans passed Blender's tax credits at 51 cents a gallon. I'm the guy who introduced the legislation in my first bill in Congress that extended the Blender's credit for ethanol and that raised the small ethanol producers and the small biofuels producers' credit from 30 million gallons a year to 60 million so that we could take advantage of the economy of scale and the kind of plants that needed to be competitive. 
   I added biodiesel to this. It came out of the bill I introduced. It was written into another bill. I've gotten a lot of help here, and I thank everybody on both sides of the aisle for that. I sent it over to the Senate. The Senate picked it up, and it arrived at the President's desk. The first bill I introduced became law, and I thought I'm a freshman, but this is easy. Well, Mr. Peterson knows it's not that easy, and I was a little bit lucky, but it was an idea whose time was right. I just happened to know, though, about what happens with biofuels. 
   The 5th District of Iowa produces more, when you add it up, ethanol, biodiesel and wind energy than any other congressional district in America. We are the renewable fuels capital. We've built an industry around this. For at least the last 2 years, maybe 3, there has been over $1 billion a year in private investment capital invested in renewable energy infrastructure just in my congressional district. So I thought I'll do the math on this now. 
   If you can lower gas prices by 50 cents because Democrats invested in biofuels--well, they didn't do that. That was Republican leadership, but Democrats did do this: They brought the farm bill out of this floor, and it went to the President's desk. It cut the Blender's credit by 6 cents. That's what Democrats have done. So they've sent a message to the renewable fuels industry: Don't invest capital in this industry because we're going to be changing the rules on you after you get your dollars invested. That's what they think of a deal. Cut the Blender's credit by 12 percent. 
   Now, I'm not here to argue whether that's the right number or whether that's the wrong number. That's what happened. That was Democrat leadership that did that, but if they think that having renewable energy--and that means biofuels--on the market will cut gas prices by 50 cents, Mr. Speaker, then I went through this math, and I figured this out. 
   All right. Let's see. In ethanol, we produced 9 billion gallons of ethanol last year. That got blended into 150 billion gallons of overall consumption. That works out to be 6 percent of the gallons, 4.2 percent of the energy. So, with biofuels, ethanol replaced 4.2 percent of the energy consumed in gas last year. If 4.2 percent of the gas can lower the price by 50 percent as stated by Mr. Ryan from Ohio, if that can happen, then I'm here to tell you, if we open up ANWR, that will do a better job because 1 million barrels a day going into the marketplace in ANWR will replace 5.6 percent of our annual gas consumption. So, if 4.2 percent in ethanol lowers the price by 50 cents a gallon, 5.6 percent coming out of ANWR ought to take it down 60 cents or more a gallon.     
   And they say don't drill in ANWR. 
   I can take that up a little bit later, Mr. Speaker, and I have some things that I would like to say about the commodities and futures and trading markets as well, but I also recognize that the gentleman who is and remains the leader on energy in the United States, in the United States Congress, the gentleman who is down on this floor over and over and over again who is working in front of the scenes and behind the scenes, who's working strategy, who is engaging in amendments in committee, who walks this floor constantly seeking to lower energy prices for the American people, a man who leaves a legacy and hopefully gets his way at the end of the 110th Congress so there's a real marker for that legacy is the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Peterson), whom I'd be proud to yield so much time as he may consume. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (HOLDING THE LINE ON DEBT AND THE ENERGY CRISIS -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I want to thank the gentleman from Pennsylvania. I'm standing here transfixed. Much of this argument I have heard, but I seldom hear it put together in such a way, such a deliberative way that flows. And when you start talking about the future and what it looks like and the pain that we're going to feel because we waited too long, that's a good message for this Congress to hear. 
   And from my own perspective, I'd like to say this. Some of us are going to be able to coast along through and shift into retirement and be able to be just fine for the rest of our expected lifespan. That's not the case for millions and millions of Americans who are at the earlier stages of their life that have yet to step forward and get an education, that have yet to join up and raise a family. 
   And I'm thinking about my children, my grandchildren. I'm thinking about a little fellow named Joseph Dean Anderson that was born the day after the 4th of July that I'll be watching very closely as he grows up and how we shape the future for him, and the decisions that we make in this Congress and the debates that we're going to have a lot harder time winning because there's an agenda out here that we can't quite get our hands on. 
   And I'm always trying to figure out how can I bring some more logic to win this debate. I came into this political arena about, oh, I don't know, 12, 13 years ago, believing that if I'm right on principle, all I have to do is articulate that principle and that will bring those folks over to my side and we'll get the votes together. That was a naive thing to believe that somehow logic and principle was going to carry the day. It doesn't carry the day because people migrate towards political power. 
   So if you have a green coalition that's putting money into campaigns and if you have an agenda that's being driven across the Web pages, they say we'll support you and we'll come in and we'll march the streets and hang door hangers on the doorknobs and we'll make sure that you get reelected, all you have to do is if we label it green, just sit up and vote our way. That suspends logic. It suspends the logic. The logic that John Peterson has delivered out here tonight, the logic I think I've added to, is suspended is because this agenda is an agenda that goes beyond our rational understanding. 
   Now, I have been telling my constituents that Nancy Pelosi and the people that follow her, the people who would have voted for energy and now vote for green in the committee, in the end they really don't want cheaper gas. They want more expensive energy in America. That's what they want. That's what the agenda is, and now here is how I explain it. 
   First, for me, for those of us who approach this thing with the best interest of Americans in mind say this. If we can do this, this is the energy pie chart. It's taken me a little time to put this together, but what it represents is the inside circle the total BTUs produced in the United States of America. That's 72 quad-trillion BTUs. And then the outside circle is all the energy that's consumed in America. That's 101.4 quad-trillion BTUs of energy. Now, quad-trillion doesn't mean a lot to me or anybody else for that matter, but it's this. 
   Seventy-two percent of the energy we consume in America is produced in America. The difference, that 28, 29 percent, is what we have to import from outside the United States, and in these pie charts that are here are a number of these components that Mr. Peterson talked about so much. 
   Here's coal in the orange. That's the coal that we consume on the outside; the coal we produced is on the inside.     
   They don't quite match up because the size of our circles are different. 
   Then you can go down here, but look at the outside circle, the natural gas. Our overall consumption is 23.3 percent of our energy consumption is natural gas. Nuclear is up here; 8.29 percent of our energy consumption is nuclear. That needs to get bigger. 
   You get around to these parts that we've heard about, the biodiesel, wind, geothermal, how hydroelectric is shrinking. Here's your ethanol. And I've pushed hard for ethanol. And we've got solar power is a small little piece of this thing; bigger than what you might think in comparison to ethanol. 
   As you get around here, here's motor gasoline. That piece is the piece of this overall consumption pie that's getting smaller in proportion, but it is not shrinking in its overall consumption. 
   The solution for the United States of America is to add one piece to this pie; that's called energy conservation. JOHN PETERSON spoke to that as well. Then we need to take every single piece of this pie and we need to expand it. We need to produce more gas, more diesel fuel, more coal, more hydroelectric. And that's the hardest thing to do. And it is the cleanest and it is renewable. Wind is renewable, and we'll produce more of it, but it's not a big enough piece. 
   More natural gas. That is troublesome to me in particular, representing farm country where 90 percent of the feedstock that goes into producing nitrogen fertilizer is natural gas. And American companies that were producing fertilizer in the United States have moved to places like Trinidad because of the lower gas prices and had to set up their operations there. They've been driven offshore. We've essentially lost the fertilizer industry in America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (HOLDING THE LINE ON DEBT AND THE ENERGY CRISIS -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time, and thanking the gentleman for coming to the floor and delivering this good, composite message on energy, the natural gas that we know of in this country is at least 406 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. That's our reserves. We saw the map on how to go drill them. 
   I would point out that there was a referendum that went up on the ballot the third day of June in Union County, South Dakota, and the question was, are you for or against building a new refinery, a $10 billion investment in southeastern South Dakota? That referendum passed by 59-41 percent. We think we're going to get a refinery built that will receive that heavy crude oil coming out of the tar sands in Alberta. It's not certain that we can get through the regulations. We think we'll get one built anyway. 
   And I want to add that the ANWR piece--we didn't talk about ANWR very much, I've gone up there and looked at that--the ANWR component of this is about a million barrels a day. It's identical in the topography to the North Slope. We drilled the North Slope starting in 1972 and we had oil pumping out of there in 1975. It doesn't take 10 or 20 years, as the gentleman said, to get this fuel down there. We can do it in months on the North Slope of Alaska, and we can change the market prices if we open up the situation to do that. 
   Now, in just concluding this, grow the size of the energy pie, add a piece for conservation, produce more Btus in all ways that we can, dramatically expand nuclear. If the French can produce 78 percent of their electricity  with nuclear, we can dramatically increase that. And nuclear should be coming online rather than natural gas to generate electricity because the mother's milk of manufacturing, the mother's milk of our economy is natural gas. 
   We're having difficulty breaking down the barriers of the people that believe we ought to have more expensive energy in this country instead of less. And I'm here to make the point that the reason that they support more costly energy and give lip service to windfall profits taxes and higher regulation and trying to squeeze down the futures and the commodities market, the reason they denied a global demand increase--which for the Chinese this year, their gas imports have increased 2,000 percent so far this year--they deny that because they want to see higher energy prices, not lower, because they know higher energy prices shuts down the mother's milk of our manufacturing industry in this country, it slows the economy down, it forces Americans to park their car and ride their bicycle. And now, that serves the myopic belief that the goddess of mother nature is more important than the God that created this Earth, and that somehow we can serve her by shutting off the consumption of energy, cutting down on greenhouse gases, and answering to this question of controlling our climate here in the United States of America. Meanwhile, while China and India and the rest of the developing nations are building coal fire plants faster than we can shut them down here in the United States, we can't solve this problem, if it exists, by shutting off the energy and shutting down the world's economy that's here in the United States, this 25 percent that we produce. 
   That's what's wrong. They want a higher energy price, they want a slower economy. They think somehow that can be paid for by the rich in America. JOHN PETERSON and STEVE KING know it can't be. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (HOLDING THE LINE ON DEBT AND THE ENERGY CRISIS -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. More energy of all kinds. Supply and demand does affect the marketplace. If we put more Btus on the market, we will have lower price energy of all kinds. And we need to prioritize the utilization of that energy, bring the nuclear in to replace the gas, let the gas drive our economy, the natural gas drive our economy. And we can do this and it will be painful. JOHN PETERSON is exactly right. 
   I yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - April 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I appreciate being recognized to address you on the floor of the House, Mr. Speaker. 
   In the 28 minutes that I have been allocated, I think it's important to address some of the issues that were raised by the gentlemen in the previous hour, the 30-Something Group. That is that, gentlemen, you simply cannot suspend the laws of gravity or the laws of nature, and what goes up must come down. Water runs downhill. And supply and demand control the prices in the marketplace. 
   I have fought this energy issue on this floor of Congress for some years now. And the lamentations that I'm hearing that come from the gentleman from Florida, his concerns about motions to recommit used to be concerns about the Republican majority. They still remain concerns about President Bush, and they still remain allegations about why we have high gas prices, why it is people can't pay their bills. But the Pelosi majority would suspend the law of supply and demand. There wasn't any discussion about that. It was all about profiteering of the corporations. 
   Well, the first point I will make is that we have got to have some people producing energy. And let's just say, for example, if Exxon makes $10 billion a quarter, and that adds up to 40 some billion dollars a year, and if this Congress steps in and says we have a different deal, we want to change the deal, we want to put some windfall profit tax on you and every other American corporation that is now making some profits off their investment in the oil fields, and as this leadership on the Speaker's side has done through the farm bill in particular, which is push to change the deal on our oil leases and renegotiate them because of their belief that the people who signed those contracts, those companies that are providing oil and gas and diesel fuel for us are making too much money, Mr. Speaker, a deal is a deal. 
   And when the Federal Government signs a deal for oil leases and those companies agree to pay royalties on the oil they pump out on a per barrel basis, if the value of that barrel goes up, the Federal Government's deal can't change, just as if the value of the oil goes down. If it costs more to explore and find the oil and more to get it on the market, Uncle Sam is not standing there. Speaker Pelosi is not standing there with her checkbook saying, well, it didn't work out so well for you; so we want to fill in the hole of the loss that you had. No. A deal is a deal. And when you shake hands on it or you just say, yes, that's what I agreed to, that is by definition a contract. And when you have a congressional piece of legislation, when you have the Federal Government negotiating a lease, you don't change that deal. 
   And this Congress steps in and makes noises about windfall profits tax. And there are people sitting on the board of directors of these energy-producing companies, these companies where the more energy they produce, the cheaper gas gets for the American people because the law of supply and demand commands the price. Gas gets cheaper when you have more of it produced. And when companies make money, they invest that profit into research and development and exploration. When they do that, that puts more gas and more diesel fuel and more oil on the market, not less. And that keeps the price from inflating or it lowers the price. So if this Congress, led by this Speaker, steps in to change the deal, the people on the board of the directors of those oil-producing companies, if they're logical, rational people and they control capital; so by definition they are logical and rational in my book, some of them are going to start to discuss how they can take those profits out of their oil company and invest them in someplace else where they might not be so vulnerable to a windfall profits tax or so vulnerable to a Congress that has shifted to evermore class envy, evermore resentful about capital returning to the stockholders, and when that happens--the mutual funds, the retirement funds, the 401(K)s, the investment funds of America that are our pension funds that supplement Social Security are many times invested in oil stocks and reserves and futures. The portfolio of America's retirement is what's being attacked by this Congress. And we have to let people and have to let companies make a profit when they invest and take the risk. You cannot suspend the law of supply and demand. But this Congress has. And I think you're off in Pah-la-la-losi Land thinking that you can suspend the law of supply and demand. You cannot. 
   If we have more energy on the market, the price increase will either slow or it will diminish and be reduced. If we have less energy on the market, the price will go up if the demand also goes up. That is the equation that works here. 
   So we have high gas prices, and it's pretty easy to figure out why. The American people that are awake tonight, Mr. Speaker, and especially those out on the west coast and in the mountain States, they will understand this equation, I think, fairly simply. There are three reasons that the gas price has been increasing. One of them is the world demand on gas and diesel fuel, on oil. That's why the per barrel crude oil price has gone up. By any  measure it has gone up. The world demand has increased. We see the Chinese increase their demand, and as the Chinese demand increases, that puts more demand on the supply, and when the supply gets tighter, the price goes up. U.S. consumption has not diminished. It has marginally increased over the last few years. That uses up more. 
   The oil reserves are being diminished some. And we're finding also oil in other places where we thought we couldn't produce it. There was an announcement here last week. USGS had announced what I believe was 3.4 billion barrels of oil in an oil shale a couple of miles down, most of it in North Dakota and some of it in Montana. That's a huge oil find. The tar sands in Northern Alberta have a massive amount of oil, and we're preparing to bring a pipeline down from there and build a refinery in the Midwest if local people are willing. And if we can do that, we can keep the gas and diesel fuel prices in America from inflating out of sight. And, in fact, if we can bring enough supply in, we can cause those prices to go back down. Supply and demand is one component of this, and it's a pretty important component. 
   The use and consumption of more energy globally is another component of it. 
   And a third component of the high gas price is a cheap dollar. This dollar has been diminished in its price. And the commodities across the world, it takes more American dollars to buy things overseas to purchase into the Euro environment, the European Union, for example. It takes more dollars to purchase in Asia. But their currency buys more. So because their currency buys more, it takes more American dollars to compete against that. So perhaps 35 percent of the value of this crude oil on the marketplace is because the value of the dollar has been diminished. If you could take 35 percent or roughly a third out of the gas price today, you're down there near $2 a gallon. 
   But the point that I want to make about this in this poster, Mr. Speaker, is this: The remarks made by the previous presenters are not consistent with this factual information that I have in this chart. And it works this way: On the day that George Bush was inaugurated as President, and I mean the first day, January 20 of 2001, the average gas price on the street was $1.49 a gallon, Mr. Speaker. That price stayed fairly flat. It appreciated some. And by the time we got out to 2007, January of 2007, when this new Democrat majority in Congress was sworn in and Speaker Pelosi took the gavel where you're seated, Mr. Speaker, the gas on that day was $2.33. 
   Now it's been about 15 months perhaps, perhaps 15 months of this Pelosi Congress, and gas has appreciated, gone up in price, from $2.33 a gallon to $3.51 a gallon. That's a 50 percent increase in the price of gasoline in America in 15 months. And that isn't because President Bush has done something to increase the price of gas. It isn't because he hasn't been helpful and supportive and worked to try to get us more domestic energy supplies. It's because the people on that side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, the people on the Democrat side of the aisle, have blocked everything since I've been in this Congress that put more energy on the market. They blocked everything. 
   And we fought this on this floor to open up ANWR for drilling, a massive amount of oil up there. There's no environmental concern in ANWR. We were successful in drilling the North Slope. And I will submit that there is not an environmental spill in that part of the country that has a lasting and damaging effect. There was a tanker, the Valdez, that did run ashore and have a spill. But that was a matter of transport. It wasn't a matter of drilling, and it wasn't a matter of processing or pipelining it out of Alaska. It was after it left Alaska that that happened. But there was not a measurable spill up north that caused a problem. There is no environmental impact that's been a negative up there in Alaska, and there is no rational reason to prohibit drilling in ANWR. Yet the vast majority of the Democrats blocked the drilling in ANWR. When we were close, when we were within a handful of votes of being able to punch those holes up there and have that oil flowing down in here into the domestic United States, that would have been back when gas was, let's say, about $1.80.     
   Today, it's $3.51 and rising because of the barrier that was put in place by environmental extremists that do not have a rational argument that they can put up. All they do is put a green label on a bill, and as soon as it's green, the chicken littles on that side will run and vote for a green bill. I had people come to me and they said, We had the bill to drill in ANWR that allowed for, out of those millions acres, and I think it's 19.2 or 19.2 million acres, 2,000 of them to be used to punch holes down into the oil field. Two thousand acres. As the vote went up on the board, Mr. Speaker, people came to me and said, You are from Iowa; you know what an acre is. You have farms there. How much is an acre? I said, Well, 43,560 square feet. That didn't mean a thing to them, that is the size of a country school house lot. That didn't mean a thing to them. How about the size of a football field? Oh. Okay. Two thousand football fields. I think I will be a no because, after all, it's green. It's labeled green. 
   Environmentalists don't want to punch holes up there. It's the best place God could have put oil, that I can imagine. You go up there and do it in the permafrost and you drive out on the ice. And when the frost melts in the summertime, there's no sign that there was any traffic there at all. The most extreme environmentalists you could come with on that side, Mr. Speaker, I could fly them over ANWR and they couldn't point down to an oil well. I will fly them over the north slope. I will fly them over at 2,000 feet and they can't eyeball an oil well in the north slope of Alaska because it's not what they imagine and it's not drilling up there in a pristine alpine forest. 
   I am here to tell you there's not a single tree up there, Mr. Speaker. Not one. Even though the Sierra Club ran adds that said we can't disturb--well, the images on the screen were pristine alpine forests. There's not a native caribou herd. But the one on the north slope of Alaska, where we did drill successfully, went from 7,000 head to 28,000 head, for those of you out there in Rio Linda. That is 28,000 caribou where there was 7,000 before because now they don't drop the calves into the cold water on top of the permafrost, but get next to the nice warm pipeline and have their calves and they get nice and fresh then they gallop across the tundra. 
   It's been a good thing for the environment, a good thing for the oil supply. Drilling in ANWR is a good thing. Drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf, especially around Florida, is a good thing. These prices would not be this high if we had been successful in those efforts, if there hadn't been a Democrat green coalition that blocked every effort to try to put more energy on the market, more Btus on the market. Because the equation is this, all of our energy is all wrapped up together. British Thermal Units ties it all together, whether gas, diesel fuel, ethanol, biodiesel, solar, hydroelectric, whether it's nuclear, whether it's wind energy, whether it's clean burning coal, whether it's latent solar heat, all of those things put energy out of the market. They are all part of the overall energy pie chart. The more energy we can put there, the cheaper it's going to get. And the more things that you do to take energy off the market, the more expensive it's going to get. And your thoughts are either denying the law of supply and demand, or the thing that I heard many of you voice, this thing you have convinced me now is that you want to see more expensive energy. That is what I believe. Because I hear the dialog, I hear the debate. You want more expensive energy because somebody will park their car and get on their bicycle and ride that instead of driving their car. Doesn't work for grandma out there in Iowa that has got ten miles in January to go to town. But it might work for somebody in Florida to get on their bicycle. 
   More expensive energy why? Because we get more quality of life? No. Because you have this myopic vision that you can somehow save the planet if we had $6, $8, $10 gas. That is why you're taken by every energy action of this Congress since Nancy Pelosi took the gavel that has taken Btus off the market, shortened the supply, tightened  this thing up. The demand has gone up, the supply has gone down. The price has gone up 50 percent in the 15 months that Nancy Pelosi has been Speaker of the House. And I have to listen to the drivel that says there is some other reason because what, we didn't go after the windfall profits of the oil companies? I don't think so. That means everybody delivering oil is a crook and everybody is fixing prices and going along with it. It is supply and demand. That is the bottom line on this energy piece. 
   As I look at my colleague from Michigan, who actually comes to the floor with a significant amount of expertise, I would be very pleased to yield such time as the gentleman may consume. Mr. McCotter from Michigan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE REPUBLICAN VISION -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas for organizing this Special Order this evening and pulling together a lot of the thought process regarding the Republican vision versus the Democrat agenda. 
   Looking at the 40 consecutive months of job growth, I would take us back to why we didn't have job growth before this began in August 2003. I would like to frame this for when the Bush Presidency came in in January 2001. That was in the middle of the bursting of the dot-com bubble. We had an economy that was really a false economy. It was a speculation on the ability to store and transfer information more efficiently than ever before, but it had not been corrected for. 
   Well, the dot-com bubble was in the middle of bursting in January 2001. By September 11, 2001, the financial center was attacked, America was attacked and the Pentagon was attacked and they had the plane that crashed in Pennsylvania. This was another attack on our finances. This was a double-whammy cloud that came over the very new Bush administration. 
   So we came forward with two rounds of tax cuts. We asked for $545 billion worth of tax cuts over that span of time. We got a pretty good chunk of that. In two rounds, those tax cuts have been what produced this thriving economy that shows a stock market that sets new highs, and also this job growth of 49 consecutive months of job growth. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE REPUBLICAN VISION -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. What the gentleman says is exactly true. Believing in the free market system and allowing people to keep more of what they earn, allowing them to make those decisions, that was entirely the philosophy behind the tax cuts. It has proven to be true throughout all these years, and it continues to grow this economy in the face of some very poor messages coming out of this Congress. Thankfully, not much of what has been attempted on the other side has been accomplished. 
   I think a strong market indicates that Wall Street doesn't believe that the Democrats are going to accomplish very many of the things they would like to do. 
   To go back to the tax component, and I don't know how I overlooked the corporate corruption which was also a component, Enron, Global Crossing, some of those things, the accounting things that were going on. I recall some people made a lot of money out of Global Crossing. Some went to jail; some didn't. Some are supporting Presidential campaigns. We ought to take a look at those folks and how that worked. 
   But I would like to take this back to a philosophy that I would ask the American people to think about, that is, Ronald Reagan once said: what you tax, you get less of. He also said what you subsidize you get more of. But what you tax, you get less of. And so the Federal Government, in its, I'll say lack of wisdom, places a tax on all productivity in America. And Uncle Sam has the first lien on all productivity in America. That is our Federal income tax, personal, corporate, capital gains, the tax on your pension, the alternative minimum tax, the whole list of all of the Federal taxes, Social Security tax is another one. That list of taxes is taxes on productivity. Interest income, dividend income, all are measures of our productivity. The Federal Government has the first lien on those taxes. 
   What I want to do, what a lot of us in this Congress want to do is adopt a national sales tax, a national consumption tax, H.R. 25, the FAIR Tax. I will say this: everything good that anyone's tax proposal does in this Congress, it does all of them in one package. That is not just my opinion. That is the opinion of a lot of economists and some very highly placed, respectable people. 
   But to put that in place, we have to take the tax off of production and put it on consumption. We will have far more production. The estimates of some of the top economists go from a growth in our economy of maybe 8 to 9 percent up to 33, 35 percent growth in our economy. But nobody thinks there will be less growth; we think there will be more growth. 
   But changing the dynamic way we tax, no tax on production, earn all you want to earn, save all you want to save and produce all you want to produce, there is a reward for that because then you get to decide when you pay taxes, and that will be when you consume. 
   Another thing that is an important component of this, and Alexander Tyler once said that when a democracy realizes, and I will argue we are a constitutional Republic, but he referenced a democracy, when people realize they can vote themselves benefits from the public treasury, on that day a democracy ceases to exist. 
   We have a number, maybe 44 percent, of Americans don't pay any income tax. That number has been growing. It is 2 or 3 or 4 years old, so I am going to suppose that number is bigger and maybe it is over 50 percent. If half of the people realize they can push their Congressmen and go to the polls and elect people that will vote them benefits out of the public treasury, then soon we are in a situation where that half of the people don't want to work. They don't want to produce any more. So they sit back. They were in the safety net that was created by the nanny state, and now that safety net has been cranked up to the elevation of a hammock, and there they sit, not producing, just sitting not being productive individuals in this society. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE REPUBLICAN VISION -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. That is exactly what I am talking about. People decide they want to be dependent on the taxpayers. They think it is cheaper for them to let somebody else pay for those services. This is a perfect example.  
   I was in the Iowa senate when we shaped the SCHIP policy and supported it at 200 percent of poverty. There are waivers in there, and I can speak specifically to Iowa's numbers. They vary across the country depending on the waivers and what the States have decided to do. 
   I think it was New Jersey that said no matter what the President says, they are going to grant SCHIP benefits to 450 percent of poverty. In Iowa right now it is 200 percent of poverty, and there are 20 percent that are waivers. So a family of four making $51,625 a year qualifies. That is mom, dad and two kids. The kids qualify for federally funded health insurance programs making that kind of money. 
   The bill passed off the House, this Pelosi-led Congress, was 400 percent of poverty. That meant that same family of four in Iowa that qualifies at $51,625 would qualify at over $103,000. Well, in the Senate it got negotiated down to 300 percent of poverty. So in my State that is still over $77,000 for a family of four. 
   So you have to decide. There will be 2.1 million kids that I will say will be bribed off their own private health insurance by Federal tax dollars. They will say: go on the Federal plan. 
   They will never be able to do that one again because there will be such a high percentage of the kids that you can never reach into that universe. I don't know if there will be any kids on privately funded health insurance if this SCHIP bill passes. That percentage goes up well over 80 percent of the kids that will be on federally funded health insurance, and there will be companies that are providing health insurance for their employees and the family, and they will take a look at this and decide I am paying them less than $83,000, which is a commonly used number, so why don't we just offer health insurance to the employee and their spouse or significant other, as the case may be, and just say we don't provide it for children because the Federal Government does. 
   This bill takes us to the tipping point where it slides over the other side. It is the cornerstone for socialized medicine. It closes the gap, just a technicality to pick up the remaining percentage of kids that would be on private insurance. 
   By the way, here in this Chamber, September 22, 1993, President Clinton spoke to a joint session on health care. He laid out a lot of this plan which we know now was Hillary's plan, and she began her hearings and her secret meetings after that, Harry and Louise shut that down, along with Phil Gramm and a good number of other people who believe in freedom and private health care. 
   But Clinton came back and said if we can't get this done in one shot, we are going to do this incrementally. And the next step for full, federally funded coverage for children in America is to go and lower Medicare from 65 down to 55. If we do that, the people in the middle, SCHIP is covering some kids up to age 25 today. So the people in the middle ages, 25 to 55, they are the ones paying for their own and they would be paying for everybody else's. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE REPUBLICAN VISION -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. That is the group of volatile people that will realize they are paying for everybody else's health care, and they are paying for their own. They will say, put me on it, too, I'm paying for it anyway, and then we will have a Canadian plan. That is what I see coming. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE REPUBLICAN VISION -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I would think they would be worried about that right now. Their Prime Minister came to the United States for melanoma surgery. There are entire companies that have been spawned in Canada who are in the business of setting up the transportation and the access to U.S. health care for the people that are very sick or maybe die in line in Canada that can come down to the United States. 
   One of the good insurance programs that you can get up there is being able to have your heart surgery taken care of by flying you from Ottawa or Montreal or Quebec down to Houston for heart surgery. That is the Canadian package. There is no place to go if we don't have an American plan. 
   And by the way, the research and development, the innovation, the things that make us the best in the world in health care, disappear too because the profit incentive is taken out. Then we get mediocre along with the rest of the world. That ends up reducing our quality of life, and it costs American lives.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE REPUBLICAN VISION -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I do have a bill that I've introduced in this Congress, whose number has escaped me, that provides full deductibility for health insurance purchased by individuals, and that's been slow in the coming. It's been lagging. It's rooted back in wage and price controls of World War II. When they froze those wages and prices, then employers figured out that if they couldn't give a raise, they could give a benefit. So health insurance became the benefit that got added on because wage dollars couldn't go up. 
   When that happened, we built a foundation of employer-based health insurance in this country, and now it becomes the politics of holding on to that employer base. That's why there's not the flexibility that we need to have there. 
   But an entrepreneur, an individual that starts up a business, a ma and pa store, they have to pay some of the highest premiums because they don't get into a group plan, and they can deduct 100 percent of the health insurance for their employees but not for themselves. 
   There's something really wrong with that. That needs to be fixed. I would take this thing on over to a lot more freedom, and whenever you give up tax dollars, some of them provide you security like through the military, through those services that can't be provided any other way. Transportation is one of them. But at some point, as you peel out the tax dollars and hand them over into that hand of Uncle Sam, they represent your freedom that you're granting over there to the Federal Government. The Federal Government then decides who's going to be able to exercise their freedom at your expense. 
   I want to feed my share of this and hold up my end of this freedom, but I don't want those dollars to go to discourage people from holding up their end of this load. That's the difference between Republicans and Democrats. 
   We're all sociologists here in this chamber. We're here trying to figure out how do people react towards certain stimuli or lack of stimuli, raising taxes, raising regulations, imposing criminal penalties and prison sentences. Everything in between, across the spectrum are all things that we should be analyzing and having some understanding of how people will react. 
   But we understand the motive for earn, save and invest, and we are philanthropists. We give at church. We give to charities. All of us in this country do, more on our side than the other side statistically, but if you let people keep their own money, they'll also understand a good place to put it out of the goodness of their heart.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - March 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank my friend, the gentleman from Georgia, for stepping up here tonight and organizing this Special Order and bringing this subject matter before you, Mr. Speaker, and before the American people.     
   This immigration issue that is before America is I believe the most complicated and least understood piece of policy that I have seen debated in this country in my lifetime. 
   I have been involved in the immigration issue since well before I came to Congress 5 years ago. Today as ranking member of the Immigration Subcommittee, I sit through immigration hearings two times a week, sometimes three times a week, sometimes more than that. Witnesses bring a lot of information before the committee, and  we are required to read a lot of information. And then one has to read the press clippings to try to understand what the American people are trying to divine out of the things that we are wrestling with here in this Congress. 
   As I state how complicated this issue is, and I look at the chart that Mr. Gingrey had up, the one that I believe demonstrates the 273 people that could be brought into the United States under the chain migration program, the family reunification plan, the plan that presumes that all family reunions, however minor or major, are reunions that all must take place in the United States as long as there is any one person of one of those families that is here. That is quite a presumption, that you can't have a happy family reunion except in America. 
   And the 273 that can generate from one individual that is lawfully present in the United States and starts this process, this is a calculation that isn't something that we happen to know in this Congress, because Mr. Gingrey has presented that here tonight; this is a calculation that is done by illegal immigrants and legal immigrants across the world, not just across our southern border into Mexico and points down south towards the Panama Canal, but China as an example. So the going rate, if you are a pregnant Chinese lady, is $30,000 for a roundtrip ticket to come illegally into the United States, have the baby, get his little footprints put on a U.S. birth certificate and go on back to China. Then after the 18th birthday, that child can start the family reunification plan, and you start down the path of this chart that shows 273. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - March 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, that 273, that is the calculated number that one individual can bring in, and they might come in illegally and find the path to a legal lawful presence and then start the 273. When that chart was done, it was not really limited to 273 except space on the spreadsheet confined it to 273. The number could be 100 or more above that. And the size of the sibling unit, it might be 6 or 12. And if I remember right, the size of the unit for the chart was 3.1 siblings per family. A very conservative estimate. 
   So we have the automatic citizenship plan, the anchor baby plan, and that will yield 350,000 babies born a year to illegal mothers but on U.S. soil. Some argue their constitutional right to citizenship. I will argue that they also have to be subject to the jurisdiction of the United States when they are born. Therefore, it is a practice, not a constitutional right. But we have 350,000 new citizens that would not be citizens if we enforced our law on that. That is NATHAN DEAL's bill, another leader on immigration from Georgia. I certainly support that bill. 
   But the family reunification, the chain migration, 273, and this usurps the kind of policy that the United States of America ought to have. Every nation, and we are the most generous Nation in the world when it comes to immigration, by raw numbers, by percentage of the population, by having a standard there that isn't a very strict standard at all, but we need an immigration policy designed to enhance the economic, the social and the cultural well-being of the United States of America. 
   As the gentleman from Georgia alluded, we are not measuring in this chain migration plan the relative merits of the individual immigrants that would come in. We are simply letting that be set by genetics of the family, maybe that and marriage and whatever kind of familial relationship they want to have. I would submit that we need to establish in this Congress, first we need to get control of the illegal flow over our borders. That is about 11,000 at night. 
   I have sat on the border and I have heard the fence squeak at night, and I have watched the shadows go by me. It is twice the size of Santa Ana's army pouring across the border. And then we have the 350,000 automatic citizenship anchor babies that are born, and the family reunification plan. All of those things are out of the control of the Federal Government right now. 
   Because we have those elements and we have the overstayers of the visa that are not being enforced, because of that, the immigration issue has become so chaotic that we cannot engage in a rational immigration debate that can be designed to do the things I say and enhance the social, economic, and cultural well-being of America. 
   If we can get enforcement back under the control of the American people, then I believe we need to put together a matrix, a score system, a score sheet that rewards potential immigrants for their education level, for the capital that they bring into the country with them, for the business acumen that they might have, for the likelihood that they can assimilate into this broader, overall American culture that we have, so we can have some cultural continuity in the United States of America and assimilate and tie together and maintain this vision of one people, one people under God. As we sit today, it is out of our control. 
   Another thing that we are going to see, a White House initiative, a Senate initiative, and I believe a House initiative coming together trying to get a critical mass of voters between the Democrats and Republicans in the House and Senate to work with the White House on this bill that I believe clearly the American people 
   understand, and that is amnesty. That is the bill which has been dropped in the House within the last day. 
   But the thing we must insist upon, however the issue of amnesty is resolved, however the issue of the national ID card is resolved, we must insist on an overall national cap. The aggregate of all of immigration components that are there, and I think there are 30-some different categories that people can come into the United States legally under, that needs to be capped. 
   So if a family reunification plan takes up to a million a year, fine, we hit the cap, we stop. No H-1Bs, no work permits. It is simply we hit the cap. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - March 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Georgia. 
   The thought that goes through my mind as I listen to that discussion about the cumulative total of legal immigrants in the United States, it occurs to me that the Senate bill that passed last year that they said was not amnesty, that the American people rejected because clearly it was amnesty, according to Robert Rector of the Heritage Foundation, would have legalized over the next 20 years, and that is the calculation period of time that we have for immigration, 66.1 million people. 
   It also occurs to me that back in 1986 when President Reagan signed the amnesty bill, that was supposed to legalize 1 million people, and that went over 3 million people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - March 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time, I am happy to yield to the gentleman to make any clarification he likes, but I have a flow in my thought process here that I want to make sure I can stay with here. 
   The published numbers, though, was supposed to be amnesty for 1 million and ended up being 3.1 million the numbers I have. Then if you go up to 1996 in California, when President Clinton accelerated the naturalization of a group of citizens in the number of 1 million in 1996. 
   So I am pointing this out that 1 million people was an outrageously high number in 1986, was an outrageously high number in 1996, and last year, the Senate passed a bill that legalized 66.1 million people, and we swallowed that and talked about it not in terms of the magnitude of it but just simply is it amnesty or is it not amnesty. 
   But put this into the scope, that the point I want to make here is that my numbers show, my census numbers, from 1820 until the year 2000, and those would be the years when our census was keeping track of the naturalization, that period of time, 1820 to 2000, the sum total, the cumulative total of all naturalized citizens come into the United States was 66 million. 
   So the Senate would have legalized a number in one of the stroke of the pen equal to the sum total of all legal immigrants that have come into America in all of its history and still leave these kind of programs here. That is the essence of the point I wanted to make. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - March 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from California. 
   So, picking up on this point, I want to broaden this discussion, if I could, a little bit, too, and that is, the labor supply in the United States of America. We hear continually from the other side the specious argument that we do not have a labor supply in the United States, and so since there is a demand for more cheap labor, therefore, you ought to bring in more cheap labor, as if the United States of America was just a giant ATM and there was nothing more to our Nationhood than a giant ATM. 
   We are more than a giant ATM. In fact, we are a sovereign Nation based upon a constitutional foundation, and we have a whole series of foundations that have created and established American exceptionalism, and without going down into the components of American exceptionalism, I would point out that we do have a labor supply, Mr. Speaker. That labor supply is not something where you just go looking at an unemployment rate and say, well, traditionally, it is kind of low, it is 4.6 percent. How many does that make? A few million out there you could hire. You could add up a few that are on the welfare rolls. 
   It is more than that. Look at the whole United States of America as if we were one huge company. If you were going to establish a company in a locale, you would not just go into that locale to measure how many were on the unemployment rolls and count them and say that is the only available labor supply. You would hire a consulting company to go in and survey that region and find out how many people were underemployed, how many people were not in the workforce, and how many people were unemployed so that you could look at the universe that could be hired from. 
   I did that for the United States of America. It was not hard to do. I am kind of astonished those big business interests did not do that. So I went to the U.S. Department of Labor's Web site, and I started to add up what about the people that are not in the workforce. 
   Well, between the ages of 16 and 19, there are 9.3 million that are not even  doing part-time work, and then you go into the ages of 20 to 24, and there is a number there that I believe is 5.1 million. 9.3 million for the teenagers, 5.1 million for the 20- to 24-year-old, and you go on up the line. So I began adding up these available workforce, and I went on up to 65, and then I thought but you know Wal-Mart is hiring up to 74. They get greeters there to hand you your cart at 74. So they are available workforce, too, not a lot of them, but they are there. You add this up, there are 6.9 million working illegals in America, and there are 69 million nonworking Americans of working age. 
   So any company that is worth their salt would look at that and say all we have to do is go hire 1 in 10 of those that are not in the workforce. One in 10 is all it takes to replace the illegal labor that is in America. 
   If you want to look at it from another perspective, Mr. Speaker, I would submit this, that 4.7 percent of the workforce is illegal labor, and they represent 6.9 million workers but they are not as productive as more educated, more efficient and more effective workers that are the American workers. So they are really only doing 2.2 percent of the work. Well, if you wanted to replace 2.2 percent of the work, if this great huge megafactory of the United States of America got up in the morning and realized that 2.2 percent of your labor force was not going to show up for work, it could happen all at once but it will not, then you could make an adjustment on your production line and you would just say to the people, well, you know that 15-minute coffee break that you have in the morning and the afternoon, for the sake of this emergency that we are in, we are going to shorten that down to 9.5 minutes in the morning and 9.5 minutes in the afternoon, and you have picked up 2.2 percent of your productivity. Eleven minutes a day will more than recover all the illegal labor in America in the size of the economy that we have. 
   We are not in a labor crisis. We just simply always will have more demand for cheap labor as long as we have more labor that makes it cheaper. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - March 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I wanted to make the point that we tried mightily in this House last year to bring immigration reform, we passed H.R. 4437. It had a lot of the things in it that would clean up the problems that we have with an enforcement here, internally, domestically, with employment enforcement, as well as border enforcement. That bill, of course, didn't make it through the Senate. The Senate passed their amnesty bill, and we passed our enforcement bill. 
   We came back and we did the one thing that we could agree to, and that was provide the online border security at the fence. That was something the American people wanted and demanded, and it was right, and it was appropriate, and it was just. 
   But the reason that that was the one thing we could agree on, because there is a tug of war going on in this country, a tug of war would be going on between big business that wants to have a supply of cheap labor, and people that want to have a supply, a long supply of voters, or at least people in the  United States they can count for the census purpose. There is a lot of political power, most of that is on the left, and there is a lot of business power, most of that is on the right. 
   We have this, it's an unusual, odd and some would say an unholy alliance. I think of it as a set of barbells where you have the weight on the right of the business interests, where you have the weight on the left is the political power, and the barbell in the middle, that handle that you pick it up with, the bar, that's the middle class. The middle class is being squeezed ever more narrow because of the overload on the upside and the overload on the downside our economy. 
   We got to this point last year, and we did all we could do. But the American people became cynical because they weren't seeing legislation get to the President's desk that fixed the problem. Now we are faced again this year with trying to arrive at a consensus, trying to arrive at something that preserves the rule of law, does not provide amnesty, satisfies the interests on both ends of that barbell that I described, and doing it quickly. Because once we get past the summer, once we get past the August break, we are into the fast slide into the next Presidential race, as well as the elections here and a third of the Senate. 
   But the Presidential race, if it's done and if it's done right, we will take this issue up in Congress, and if we don't solve it first, it will be become the issue du jour of the Presidential debates. And I am looking forward to a Presidential candidate that will step forward with clarity on this issue and start that inertia towards the White House. That is the one thing that can solve this issue. That is my best hope. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from Arizona for bringing this amendment, and I appreciate the gentleman from West Virginia coming down to defend this particular language that's here. 
   I think we need to take a look at this thing from a perspective that's perhaps broader than this particular project, that being that the issues that have been raised here in this Congress will be discussed again and again throughout this appropriations process. 
   But if the project has merit, it should have merit. It should be able to succeed in its efforts without being specifically identified. 
   But I think it has a fair amount of weight to drag with it, in that that trail has been there a long time. It could wait awhile longer. 
   I would submit that the issues that surround the particular district that the gentleman represents should be considered in light of this particular appropriation. The report that came out in the Wall Street Journal that's a little more than a year old, about land that has been purchased along the river that happens to be the same river that this trail runs along, I don't know that it's adjacent, brings a question to mind as to whether or not the gentleman  from West Virginia will be able to follow through on statements reported in the Wall Street Journal that say any claim whatsoever that says these investments are in any way related to my actions as a Member of Congress is categorically false. 
   I don't deny that statement. I don't actually take issue with that. I would just ask the gentleman if he could suspend his aggressive effort to fund this project until such time as these questions that surround this Cheat River project could be resolved. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the offer of the chairman. I wonder if he might concede to a 15-second blurb here in order to get a couple of words into the Record. I appreciate the incentive and the concession. 
   This amendment simply says none of the funds shall be used to hire people who are not legal and eligible to work within the United States. That's it. I think we have a consensus on this. 
   Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   This amendment follows through on the theme of the previous amendment, only it addresses that no homeownership assistance will be applicable to those who aren't legal to work or lawfully present in the United States. Again, it is a simple concept. It supports current law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, this is the amendment that strikes the requirements for the Davis-Bacon Act within the appropriations of this bill, and the Davis-Bacon issue is something that I have lived with for at least my 28 years in the construction business as an owner and operator, and we'd add about four or five more years as an employee. 
   I have received Davis-Bacon wage scales. I've paid Davis-Bacon wage scales. I've managed my way through the combination of paperwork and requirements that are part of this. I'm maybe the only one in Congress who has real hands-on experience for years of dealing with the additional costs that are involved with the Federal wage scale that's Davis-Bacon. 
   And my numbers throughout my history of working with these projects vary from anywhere from 8 percent increase in the cost of the projects up to 35 percent increase in the cost of the projects. I round that down to a round number of 20 percent additional costs. 
   We're in a situation where we're arguing that we need to bring in more labor from foreign countries to do this work, and yet we're setting a Federal wage scale for this work, and we know that labor is developed by supply and demand. I am a supporter of labor being able to collectively negotiate the value of their work, but I'm not a supporter of the Federal Government telling the workers and the employers what they need to pay their employees. 
   I believe that if two adult individuals want to enter into a contractual agreement, they should be able to do so without interference of the Federal Government. This is not a prevailing wage in practice. It's only a prevailing wage by statute. Actually, it is union scale imposed upon wherever the money is spent. 
   Any construction project with $2,000 or more in it takes the inflationary cost of a Davis-Bacon wage scale. Some places, it's actually below the prevailing wage. Other places, it distorts that prevailing wage dramatically. In almost all cases, it costs a lot of money, and for example, if it's a 20 percent increase, then if you can build five projects or 5 miles of road, this will let you build six. Why would we limit the resource and the infrastructure that we are building with this project by imposing such a draconian, top-down,  Federal management tool that not only costs a lot more money, but it makes it a lot, lot harder to manage your projects? 
   So with that, Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I rise as one, again, who has worked on union shop and merit shop jobs, both as an employer and as an employee. As an employer, having been a union shop, I have paid union scale and also, of course, prevailing wage, Davis-Bacon wage scale. I've worked under a union shop, and I've worked on a merit based, and to look at the difference in the workmanship, I don't think we can apply high quality strictly to union. In fact, merit shop employees do a fantastic job with the work that they're doing, and they take pride in it, and they have to compete in the competition of the project. 
   My son's now in the construction business, the second generation King Construction. I know the decisions he has to make, and sometimes he will pick up a set of plans and take a look at that and figure on bidding that project and find out that it's a Davis-Bacon wage scale. He understands that that messes up his flow of his employees, and it limits his ability to manage those employees on the job. 
   For example, if you're paying an excavator operator $24 an hour and you're paying your laborer on the ground with a shovel or a grease gun let's say $10, that man is not going to get off of that excavator and pick up that grease gun or pick up that shovel, even if it's for a half hour or an hour if he knows he's going to be paid union scale for that when he could be paid the $24 an hour to sit on the machine. Those things work against our efficiency. 
   My greatest frustration with Davis-Bacon wage scale is not the wage itself. It's that it takes away my ability to manage a project and my ability to provide incentives for employees to make decisions themselves on the ground. 
   I have to manage them more when they're under a Davis-Bacon wage scale. I have to tell them what to do. I know people that are owners and operators of their company who get up in the morning and go out to the job at five o'clock to grease and service their machines because they can't afford to pay their operator to get out the grease gun and do it, and they'll be there at night, too, working 16 hours a day while that employee is at 8 hours a day on a Davis-Bacon wage scale. 
   It distorts the work we do. It distorts the skills and the complement of the skills, and it raises the cost of everything that we do in the construction business. It injects the Federal Government in the way between that relationship between an employer and employee. 
   Additionally, my employees have received 12 months of work, not seasonal work, health insurance benefits and vacation pay, all of that flowing because we can pay them what they're worth for a week's work as opposed to an inflated value of what they're worth for an hour's work. They make out better, we make out better, and we've got more consistent employees. That goes across this country almost universally. 
   So I would urge adoption of this amendment. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The time of the gentleman from Iowa has expired. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, as I reflect on what the Labor Relations Act of 1935 means, it says specifically in the act that there will be no discrimination with regard to hire or tenure of employment or any term or condition of employment by membership in any labor organization, et cetera, and essentially says, by my recollection, that no one shall be coerced into joining a union, nor shall they be discouraged from joining a union. 
   It's a balanced labor relations act that's there, but the statement that was made by the gentlelady from Texas said it provides for a report for projects on federally funded projects. I don't know where that might exist in the statute. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentlelady from Texas for a question. I noticed in your remarks your amendment provides for a report for union workers on federally funded projects. I don't recognize where that might be in the 1935 act, and I am wondering, since I don't see it in your amendment, what the basis of that might be. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time, I thank the gentlelady from Texas. I did happen to write that quote down verbatim, I am confident. 
   We have a lot of debate here on the floor. Some of us offered more than one amendment. I would simply thank the gentlelady for that statement. 
   I, for myself, we have the law on the books, and this law is a neutral law. It's not one that promotes union labor, and it's not one that promotes nonunion labor. It's one that promotes the freedom and the discretion of the employee to make that decision. 
   It does allow for union members to approach workers on the job. That's a protection that's in there, but it also allows the freedom for those workers to make the decision as to whether they would want to collectively bargain or not based upon a vote within that workforce. 
   Mr. Chairman, may I inquire how much time I have remaining. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Iowa has 2 minutes remaining. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank the gentlelady from Texas for that clarification. I listened carefully to the presentation, and the clarification comes now that it is union and nonunion workers protected equally alike, on balance, between union and merit shop employees. 
   The advocacy here is for current law. 
   Now, as we have made this clarification into this record, I appreciate that. 
   Mr. Chairman, I withdraw my opposition to the amendment and congratulate the gentlelady from Texas. I appreciate her patience. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson-Lee). 
   The amendment was agreed to.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO PROVISION GRANTING SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN IRAQIS -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Now I must oppose this legislation, Mr. Speaker. It amends flawed legislation enacted this year that unjustifiably bypassed the normal committee process.  
   The National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2008 contained an expansive new refugee program that could result in well over 100,000 refugee admissions to the United States over the next 5 years. This provision was never considered, let alone approved, by the Judiciary Committee or on the House floor. 
   It's simply irresponsible for this Congress to hand out over 100,000 green cards without allowing for the normal deliberative review process. The provision grants 5,000 ``special immigrant'' green cards a year for the next 5 years to Iraqi nationals who meet the following criteria: They are citizens or nationals of Iraq; they were employed by or on behalf of the United States Government in Iraq on or after March 20, 2003, and they were employed for not less than a year; they provided faithful and valuable service to the United States Government; and they have experienced or are experiencing an ongoing serious threat as a consequence of their employment by the U.S. Government. 
   Now, I would say, Mr. Speaker, that our military that served in the line of fire has experienced a threat as a consequence of their employment of the U.S. Government, so has most everyone who has served any duty in that country. And this is a wide-open definition that allows the State Department to make a determination based upon a broad definition that says if they've experienced an ongoing serious threat as a consequence of their employment, and ``ongoing'' is not defined. 
   This provision is well-intentioned, however, it is problematic for a number of reasons. First, the State Department estimates that each of the 5,000 beneficiaries will bring an average of four family members with them who will not count against the cap. Therefore, the provision would result in, according to State Department estimates, upwards of 25,000 green cards being granted per year for 5 years. My math on that is 125,000, Mr. Speaker. Given that legal immigration now regularly exceeds 1 million persons a year, and the American people, by overwhelming margins, do not want to see further increases at least until we enforce the law and get operational control of the border, these numbers today are irresponsible. 
   Second, the provision will produce a drain for pro-U.S. and pro-democracy Iraqis actually living in Iraq. This potential exodus may prove devastating to efforts to rebuild that country. 
   Third, the provision grants refugee status to aliens who do not meet the long-standing statutory definition of a refugee--a person who is persecuted or who has a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a social group, or political opinion. That's the definition that exists today that the State Department could act under, Mr. Speaker. But we should not be setting such precedent without very careful deliberation. 
   Fourth, terrorists could easily infiltrate this program and not only gain access to the U.S., but attain the benefits of legal permanent residence and then U.S. citizenship. These benefits include the ability to travel the world over with the knowledge that one can easily return to the U.S., leaving us more vulnerable. 
   The inclusion of this refugee program in the Department of Defense authorization bill without adequate deliberation was a mistake, and in this follow-on bill it also is a mistake. Therefore, I cannot support today's legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO PROVISION GRANTING SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN IRAQIS -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, this discussion is about the technical changes to existing ill-advised legislation that came through this Congress, not through the Judiciary Committee, but it came to this floor without the due process and the consultation that would come from people on both sides of the aisle that could have examined this and measured the consequences, in fact, the unintended consequences of this legislation. 
   Under current law the President can set the number of refugees, and the Secretary of State administers this. We've met with the Secretary of State on this, and the definition I provided in my remark of existing law that is well-founded and well-tested says that the refugees meeting this standard can come into the United States under a number of items as agreed to by the administration, generally by the Secretary of State. And a person who would qualify would be a person who is  persecuted or who has a well-founded fear of persecution on account of their race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion. These applicants that would come under this standard don't meet this standard that exists under refugee law because the threat is not as great, and they want to open this up for folks that have not faced a threat that is as great. 
   So now the language that's in the bill that we are seeking to technically correct here is language that says, well, what kind of standards do they meet? Well, up to 125,000 of them, perhaps, over this 5-year period of this authorization, what do they have to be? They have to be an Iraqi. They have to have worked for Uncle Sam. Their work had to have had value. And then they had to have experienced or maybe currently are experiencing a serious threat. And I will submit that everybody that works for the Federal Government experienced a threat. Anybody that set foot inside the Green Zone experienced a threat. Anybody that set foot outside the Green Zone probably experienced a greater threat. So the experience of the threat that's defined in this bill is opened up to all Iraqis that might want to present themselves if they are an Iraqi; if they worked for the Federal Government, if Uncle Sam cut them a check, worked for a year; and then if their work had value, which I think all work really does have value. 
   So what we're doing here is a technical correction that shouldn't have been passed in the first place, that should have gone through the regular order, that should have been submitted to the committee process, who would have had the opportunity to examine the effect of the numbers in this open door for perhaps 125,000. 
   So we can talk about process here, Mr. Speaker, and we can debate about the right way to bring legislation through so that we have an opportunity to perfect that legislation. But I think the bottom line is there's a consequence to this that weighs poorly for the Iraqi people in general. And that is if this legislation is technically corrected today, if this legislation passes and receives the signature of the President and becomes law, perhaps 125,000 Iraqis, perhaps more, can come to the United States under a standard that's looser than the refugee standard that the Secretary of State has to uphold today, and a Nation of about 26 or 27 million people could lose 125,000 of its best citizens and its best people. The allies of the United States of America and coalition forces, the people who believe the most in freedom, those who stepped up and did put their lives on the line, those that will be the vitality to rebuild a country that's emerging from the surge and continuing day by day, and the numbers and the data that we are looking at look more and more optimistic, they need good people. 
   It's people that are policy. We know that in our own offices. We know that within our companies. We know that within our own military, within our own government. People are policy. Good people in Iraq will rebuild Iraq. We need people there. I want to see Americans go there to help. I want to see the Iraqi people stay there and rebuild their country. That's a high level of patriotism for them to show. 
   This is a bill that discourages that and actually works inversely to the best interests of the United States and the best interests of Iraq. So I urge its defeat. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RECOGNIZING THE 100TH BIRTHDAY OF LYNDON BAINES JOHNSON -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of House Concurrent Resolution 354, honoring the birth of former President Lyndon B. Johnson. This resolution accompanies the LBJ Foundation's upcoming centennial celebration. 
   Lyndon Johnson was born on August 27, 1908, in central Texas, not far from Johnson City, which his family helped settle. He endured rural poverty in his younger years, working his way through Southwest Texas State Teachers College, now known as Texas State University, San Marcos. 
   President Johnson's well-known commitment to civil rights began early in his political career. When he was elected to Congress, Johnson worked to get  black farmers and school children equal treatment in his congressional district, and in 1938, secured Federal funding for housing in Austin, Texas, for those who lived in poverty. 
   After six terms in the House, Johnson was elected to the Senate in 1948. In 1953, he became the youngest minority leader in Senate history. The following year, he became the majority leader. 
   During his 24 years in Congress, Johnson garnered unprecedented experience in the passage of legislation, experience that materialized into the many civil rights laws he signed as President. When Lyndon Johnson took office following the tragic assassination of President John F. Kennedy, he spearheaded passage of the 1965 Higher Education Act, which quadrupled the number of African American college students within a decade. He did the same with Medicare and Medicaid legislation, and within another decade, African American infant mortality was reduced by half. 
   Johnson also played a crucial role in ending the de jure segregation in America by signing the landmark 1964 Civil Rights Act into law, which banned discrimination in employment. As a proud Republican, I stand here, Mr. Speaker, I remind you and this body that that was with a majority of Republican votes in the House and in Senate that passed the Civil Rights Act in 1964, and President Johnson truly worked in a bipartisan fashion across the aisle and could not have passed that without bipartisan support and a majority of Republicans in the House and Senate. 
   After Martin Luther King, Jr.'s voter registration campaign in Selma, Alabama, President Johnson said that even one American's disenfranchisement, ``undermines the freedom of every citizen.'' In that spirit, he signed the 1965 Voting Rights Act. His efforts allowed more African Americans to vote, and to run for office. 
   As a result of President Lyndon B. Johnson's historic efforts in the fight to end racial segregation, we now live in a more representative America. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (GAS PRICE RELIEF FOR CONSUMERS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself so much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, it's painfully obvious to the American people that the price of gasoline is going up. This week the national average price per gallon of gas hit $3.77; that's up 63 cents from the same period last year. At every fill-up, American families are reminded that driving anywhere is going to cost them more than ever. 
   Higher gas prices cause a real drain on family finances, and if they remain high, they could serve as a drag on our economy. In fact, I believe they do serve as a drag on our economy. 
   Rising gas prices and subsequent congressional interest are not a new phenomenon. It seems that every year Congress conducts a new investigation of the oil industry. By my estimation, in this House, House committees have held no less than 20 hearings, and that's on the gas prices. In the House Judiciary Committee, alone, we've held two hearings just this year, and there's another one scheduled for this Thursday. Those hearings were last year, one more scheduled for this Thursday. 
   Despite all of this, all this oversight, the price at the pump continues to rise. As the Federal Trade Commission has reported, though, changes in world oil prices have explained 85 percent of the changes in the price of gasoline in the U.S. The price of gas at the pump closely tracks the price of a barrel of oil in the world market. 
   Further, the FTC has repeatedly found that there is no broad-based collusion to fix prices or engage in price gouging in the retail sale of gasoline. 
   Another factor impacting the price at the pump has been the decline of the dollar. While the cost of oil has gone up worldwide, its impact has been felt more in the United States because of the lower value of the dollar, vis-a-vis other countries. For example, while the price of West Texas intermediate crude, in dollars, has increased almost 109 percent since January of 2007, that would be the beginning of the 110th Congress, Mr. Speaker, it has only increased 78 1/2 percent if it's calculated in euros or 84 percent in yen. ``Only'' seems like an interesting phrase to put in there. But a 109 percent increase in dollars, 78 1/2 percent in euros or 84 percent in yen. 
   So what can Congress do to reduce fuel prices? It can expand the domestic supply of energy. Yet time and again, the Democratic leadership has rejected opportunities to increase that supply and bring gas prices down. 
   What has the majority brought to a vote? 
   Well, this is the second time in this Congress that we're considering NOPEC. Everyone knows that the world oil price is dictated mainly by the quantity of oil that the organization of petroleum exporting countries is willing to supply and, of course, in relation to the demand for that oil. 
   Most would argue that the presence of this cartel, controlled in large part by totalitarian or hostile regimes, is not helpful. The question is, though, what could or should Congress do about it? NOPEC is one possible solution to this problem, but because of the Act of State doctrine and the concept of sovereign immunity, Americans are precluded from suing the cartel that controls a good portion of the world's oil supply. This bill would change that or at least attempt to. 
   However, there is no certainty that enabling the Attorney General to sue OPEC for an antitrust violation will result in lower gas prices for Americans. Given the instability that such a suit might create in the world oil market, this legislation would be long on psychic compensation, but short on actual returns to America's pocketbook. 
   I'm concerned about the unintended consequences of this bill. Moreover, this particular bill has no consideration, has had no consideration in the House Judiciary Committee. In addition to the NOPEC provision which the House considered last year, it also creates a task force at the Department of Justice to study the anticompetitive aspects of the oil and gas markets. Yet the Federal Trade Commission has studied this area repeatedly and found no widespread collusion. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, what we are doing here is administratively burdensome on the Department of Justice and at best is duplicative of efforts that already take place at the FTC. 
   I recognize this bill will likely pass the House again today, but I urge the majority to quit with the cheap theatrics and easy votes. This Congress  should be considering legislation to actually expand oil supply such as drilling in ANWR. We're not seeing a vote on drilling in ANWR in this Congress, in this 110th Congress, or drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf, where I happen to know there are 406 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. But, rather, these bills are brought up that might prompt OPEC countries to turn off their supply of oil to the U.S. or to squeeze it down. 
   That's my opening statement and my view on this bill. 
   I would reserve the balance of my time, Mr. Speaker.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (GAS PRICE RELIEF FOR CONSUMERS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I have no further speakers, and Mr. Speaker, I'd yield myself so much time as I may consume. 
   I would remind Mr. Speaker and remind the body, the substance of this bill and what it really does; that is, it outlaws OPEC. It outlaws the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, and it removes the sovereign immunity for these countries and establishes a task force in the Department of Justice, and then, additionally to that, it produces a GAO study to study mergers. That's how I go through and read the bill, those three things I think we should keep that in mind on what the bill does. 
   What it doesn't do, this bill doesn't outlaw the congressional cartel that has blocked our energy production in this country. I take us back to the 109th Congress when we had almost all Republicans that were ready and did come to this floor and voted to drill in ANWR, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, which by the way you'd be hard-pressed to find wildlife up there, and I've been there to look. 
   But we had almost all Republicans that voted for it. A small group of them joined together with the Democrats and blocked drilling in ANWR. That was the 109th Congress. That's when we were pushing to put more oil on the market, more energy on the market, instead of this effort, the 110th Congress, this Pelosi Congress, to take energy off the market. 
   The same kind of situation prevails with drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf. Well, within that definition of the Outer Continental Shelf, with the exception of borders between us and Cuba, the Chinese are drilling for natural gas at 45 miles off of Key West. And we aren't willing to go out and drill the Outer Continental Shelf, either off Florida or off of California, as Mr. Lewis talked about in his presentation. 
   Instead, we're here sending a message to the rest of the world that we want to set up the scenario so the Department of Justice can step into this and file a suit against sovereign countries that are conducting business. 
   Now, I don't know how someone on the other side can be for unions collectively bargaining and against OPEC collectively bargaining, but that is one of the ways to define this. 
   Another thing that's going on is an attempt to suspend, maybe, logic, but attempt to suspend the law of supply and demand. We rail away against high gas prices. We've heard that over here. I'm opposed to high gas prices, but I'm for putting more energy on the market, more Btus into every form of energy that comes in, but instead, we intimidate and send a message. 
   Even if this bill gets vetoed, which I believe it will, we're sending a message over to the OPEC countries that we want to litigate. Rather than develop our own oil supplies, we want to litigate? What does that say to them? If you're sitting on a board of directors of a corporation, you get that kind of message, you make a decision about what to do with the capital. 
   Now, if you're an OPEC country, you're going to be making a decision on what to do with your oil. If the United States Congress says we're going to sue you, OPEC countries, what are those countries going to do? They've got about three alternatives. They can hurry up and hustle up and put more oil supply out there, which is what I think the majority hopes they will do. Or they can say, wait a minute, I'm going to hold this the way it is because we've got a good business plan here; I'm offended but I'm not changing anything. Or they might just decide a little bit out of spite to turn the spigot down a little bit to say we'll show you.  
   Now, the gentleman from Virginia said the President went over to the OPEC countries with hat in hand, and he did, and I'm sorry to see that. I'm sorry to see the President of the United States ask and get the response that he got, but that's driven because we have not opened up the energy supplies that we have in this country. We haven't moved ourselves towards energy independence. Instead, we're paying the Pelosi premium on gasoline. 
   And the gentleman from Wisconsin, when he spoke of $65 a barrel oil and the last time this bill came up and $3 gas, and today, by his numbers, and it moves pretty quickly, $125 a barrel for oil and $4 gas, and I wondered about this level of outrage then versus now. And so I just did a little math. At what percentage of the price of gasoline then, the last time an OPEC bill was here on this floor, what percentage of that was wrapped up in the cost of crude oil, oil at $65 a barrel and $3 gas? If you take a gallon of crude oil, the cost of a gallon of crude oil was 52 percent of the cost of that gallon of gas. $1.55 a gallon was the cost of the crude oil. Today, the cost per gallon of crude oil, according to the gentleman from Wisconsin's numbers, which I don't dispute, is $2.98 a gallon just to buy the crude oil. That relates out to 75 percent of the cost of a gallon of gasoline is tied up in the cost of the crude oil, if you rate it accordingly. 
   We're getting a better bargain now in relation to the cost of crude oil than we were then. It's a higher percentage of the overhead of our refineries and distributing companies. They are doing, I think, a good job of getting it here, but the oil markets are high. They are high because of the cheap dollar. They're high because we have sent the wrong message out there, and speculators are taking advantage of this. This sends another wrong message out there. 
   So if you're an OPEC country, what do you do? You can, as I said, provide the same or less oil on the market. One thing you might do is maybe pull some investments out of the United States to send another message, don't be trying to intimidate us from Congress; let us do some business. Or another thing that happens is that it erodes, Mr. Speaker, our relationship with those Middle Eastern countries. Those countries that are our allies, those countries that are our friends, those countries that we need strategically in that part of the world, and they need us, this makes it harder for us to work together strategically. 
   So everything in this Pelosi Congress has taken energy from the market. Instead, now we have legislation that outlaws cartels and would set it up so the Department of Justice could eventually bring suit and presumably freeze the assets ultimately of the countries that are invested here in the United States of America. 
   Because of the cartel in Congress, this cartel that says if it is green, it's good; if it's energy, it's bad; a cartel of people in this Congress that believe that the cost of energy going up is a good thing because people will burn less gas; if they burn less gas, then somehow it saves the planet, you've convinced me. You've convinced me that a significant element of the Democrat Caucus really doesn't care about high energy prices except the higher the prices go, the less gas will be bought and burned and there will be less carbon emissions into the atmosphere. That's the wrong priority. 
   We need more energy on the market, not less. We've got to grow the size of the energy pie. That pie chart that shows the 360-degree circle, that's got the slices that are gas, diesel fuel, ethanol, biodiesel, solar, wind, hydroelectric, nuclear, coal, all of those, and one slice of the pie for conservation as well, Mr. Speaker, all of those things is what we need to do. More energy on the market, not less, not litigation. 
   We need to have a vote on ANWR, and I'd challenge the majority to produce that vote so the American people can understand where they stand. 
   I oppose this bill. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (LET OUR VETERANS REST IN PEACE ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3480, the Let Our Veterans Rest in Peace Act, provides increased penalties for the desecration of the graves of America's fallen soldiers. 
   It is fitting that we consider this bill today on the eve of Memorial Day, a national holiday to honor those who died in defense of our country. Sadly, last Memorial Day weekend in Washington State, the graves of 97 war veterans were desecrated. American flags honoring those men and women were burned or replaced with homemade swastika flags. 
   Last year, in Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, over 700 markers were stolen from the graves of American soldiers. These bronze plaques and flag holders were placed at every veteran's grave as a memorial to honor their service. In Texas, the grave of Purple Heart recipient Lance Corporal Jeremy Burris was desecrated only 2 days after his burial. Flower arrangements, personal notes, and flags decorating the grave site were torn down and destroyed. All of this destruction to steal and sell wire flower stands. 
   In Georgia, a bronze statue depicting a Marine's boots, rifle and helmet was ripped out of the ground at the grave site of Corporal John Stalvey. Other graves have also been vandalized to steal the bronze plates traditionally placed on the grave sites of fallen service men and women. 
   With the price of bronze on the rise, thieves are stealing these markers to sell as scrap metal. The cost of brass markers has risen to $28 each. Some counties cannot afford to replace the metal markers, so they are being forced to turn to cheaper aluminum markers. 
   Whether these acts are motivated by greed or protest, destroying the grave of any person, let alone those who have died fighting for our country, is inexcusable, and these crimes must be met with swift and strong punishment. 
   Mr. Speaker, the desecration of these graves not only disrespects the men or women that rest there, it dishonors those serving in our Armed Forces today. H.R. 3480, the Let Our Veterans Rest in Peace Act, directs the U.S. Sentencing Commission to review and amend its sentencing guidelines to provide a sentencing enhancement for any offense involving the desecration or theft of, or trafficking in, grave markers of veterans. 
   Our Nation's fallen heroes fought and died for their country, for our country, and their memories deserve better. I urge my colleagues to support this bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (EXTENDING PROGRAM RELATING TO WAIVER OF FOREIGN COUNTRY RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL GRADUATES -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, aliens who participate in medical residencies in the United States on J exchange program visas must generally leave the U.S. at the conclusion of their residencies to reside abroad for 2 years before they can be eligible for permanent residence or status as H-1B or L visa nonimmigrants. The intent behind this policy to encourage American-trained foreign doctors to return home to improve health conditions and advance the medical professions in their native countries. 
   In 1994 Congress created a waiver of the 2-year foreign residence requirement. The waiver was available if requested by State departments of public health for foreign doctors who committed to practice medicine for no less than 3 years in a geographic area or areas designated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services as having a shortage of health care professionals. The number of foreign doctors who could receive the waiver was limited to 20 per State. 
   Congress has extended this waiver on multiple occasions and has also expanded the numerical limitation on waivers to 30 per State. The waiver is set to expire on June 1 of this year. In fiscal year 2007, 768 foreign doctors received waivers. 
   H.R. 5571 will further extend the waiver until June 1, 2013. I support this bill. The waiver program assists people in rural and inner-city communities in getting good quality and accessible medical care. As I look at the problem of access to health care and the way we have addressed it in this Congress, it gives me a foreboding feeling to see where we will be in 10 years or so. I think it's an important piece, a small piece, but an important piece of our health care plan. I urge its adoption. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (EXTENDING PROGRAM RELATING TO WAIVER OF FOREIGN COUNTRY RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL GRADUATES -- (House of Representatives - May 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I have no further speakers, and I will yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill. I think reauthorizing the J visas for access to health care across this Nation, allowing people practicing medicine to come in at the rate of 30 per State, and look around to see which States utilize that and which ones don't, it is easy for us to see those States that need that access to health care. This will help. It will help in a lot of the States. In fact, it will help in all the States, if they use it. 
   I urge its adoption. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONSTITUTION CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlemen from New Jersey and Utah; and Mr. Speaker, it's a privilege again to address this House and you and talk about the integrity of our voting system that we have here in the United States. 
   I start my opinion and my view out on this focused long before the year 2000, but really focused on the 2000 election. I recall watching that drama unfold in Florida, and at the time, I was chairman of the Iowa State senate, State government committee, and I knew that it was my job to be sure that Iowa could be set up and structured in such a way that they never became a State like Florida was, going through the throes of those decisions that were being made down there by their State supreme court and ultimately by the United States Supreme Court. 
   It was an agonizing thing to watch, and I watched it intensively for 37 days in front of the television and my Dish TV, and everything I could pick up in all the print, off the Internet and my telephones. I worked them constantly because I knew the next leader of the free world was going to emerge from the system that Florida had, and that, of course, was the catalyst that created HAVA, the Help America Vote Act. 
   I came to some conclusions, too. I chased all those rabbit trails on the Internet down to the end, and I uncovered what I believe to be a significant amount of corruption within our electoral system across this country, flat out open, intentional fraud committed in a number of States without a lot of prosecution to back it up, kind of a blind eye. 
   I will speak one State discovered the laws were set up in such a way if you came in and presented yourself as Joe Smith, and even if Joe Smith was actually working the election board and knew very well that it was his registration you were pointing to and you alleged to be him, Joe Smith himself couldn't challenge the person who presented themselves as Joe Smith because the election laws prohibited challenging the identification of someone whom you know to be misrepresenting themselves. Can't ask for an ID, can't ask for a picture ID. You can't even prohibit them from voting in your name, and you can't ask for a provisional ballot in some States, and those kind of things open up this system. 
   So I came at this with a little bit different view than I think the gentleman from Utah has from this perspective. Yes, I want the States to have the maximum amount of autonomy. I want to see that in the hands of the States. I don't want the Federal Government to run this; but by the same token, a State that has a faulty electoral system, without true integrity then, also can be the State that chooses the next leader in the free world, which affects all Americans. 
   So if you could envision a scenario of Florida that resulted in an altered election result for the President of the United States, you can also envision an interest that this Congress has, but it should be very narrow. It should be very limited, and it should be consistent with our constitutional views. 
   The voter registration that the gentleman from Utah (Mr. Bishop) mentioned, I looked across the voter registration rolls, Iowa in particular, and found them to be replete with duplicates, deceased, and in our State, like the case of Florida, felons. Duplicates, deceased and felons; and yet there we sat with all that software, that database with all those registered voters, and we couldn't even run that database to sort out when there were duplicates,  just simply leave the registration of the most recent activity. We couldn't even get that done. 
   I brought legislation through the Iowa Senate that required the Secretary of State to sort that voter registration list to certify that the list be free of duplicates, deceased, and felons and that the Secretary of State certify that they be citizens. Not a very high standard that they should be a citizen of the United States to vote here in America. Those things were all met with the stiffest opposition by the members of the other party, which convinced me that they believed that they had an advantage with a system that was full of those kind of contradictions and integrity, I can put it that way. 
   I recall running across a significant amount of information that was compiled by the Collier brothers in Florida, and neither of these brothers happen to be alive today, for different reasons I understand. But one of the pieces of their documents, and they did a movie and there's a fair amount of print material out there. They had gone into the warehouse where the vote counting machines, the punch card vote counting machines were stored, and they asked the fellow how is it that you rig a vote here. He said, well, it's simple. He opened the drawer and pulled one of the plastic gears out of there and said we just grind one tooth off of these plastic gears, put them in the voting machine, and that puts in one extra vote for our guy out of every 10 votes that are cast. 
   Well, that will change most elections, Mr. Speaker. Something that open, that blatant in the annals of the public record of the United States. And so HAVA was passed here in Congress, the Help America Vote Act, all with good intention. I think they went too far with HAVA then and provided a lot of help for the local election boards. 
   One of the things that they did was require that there be the electronic voting machines; and the purpose of that, one of the foundational reasons for that was so that they could be operated by the blind, which means they need to be able to plug in earphones into that machine so that you can listen to the tones and vote. There were a lot of successes in blind voting with absentee ballots, and that wasn't a concern that ever came to me; but it was an accommodation that actually was a significant component that altered these requirements that came out for HAVA. 
   So it would be nice to be able to accommodate the blind. They ask for very, very little. By the same token, it opened this system up now where we have electronic voting machines across this country where there is no legitimate means to audit the votes that are recorded on them. We have thousands and thousands of electronic voting machines that simply have a software trail, not a paper trail. 
   And as I mentioned about how the grinding a plastic tooth off of a plastic gear can change the results of the counting of the ballots, the punch card ballots in a place like Florida and many other places at that period of time, the software can do the same thing. We have something like 900 software engineers that have said that this software can be hacked, it can be altered; and of course I believe it can be. 
   Now, the most important point of this is one thing is that we to have a lot of integrity in our system, Mr. Speaker. It can be altered, it can be hacked; but if we got to the point where the American people lost their confidence in the integrity of this system, our entire constitutional Republic comes crashing down around us because no one would accept the results of an election. They would challenge it like they do in Mexico, or I was there last month, and the President of Mexico wasn't allowed to even give the state of the union address to their own congress because they had rejected the results of the election, among other reasons. 
   But here we respect the integrity of our electoral process. We held it together through the 2000 issues, and Florida cleaned up a lot of the things that went on down there. I need to say that for the benefit of my brethren from Florida. But if we ever lost confidence in this system, our entire constitutional Republic is at risk. 
   So whether there's a Republican majority or a Democrat majority, whether there's a Democrat or Republican in the White House, whether one side dominates the other side, it's important to both sides of the aisle that we have a maximum amount of integrity in our electoral process. 
   So what I have done is drafted legislation that's called the Know Your Vote Counts Act. It is very simple. It isn't this expansive thing that adds a lot of conditions on and makes it so that the voting machines that are out there now are obsolete and have to be retooled and cost a lot of money. What it does is it requires a paper audit trail in all precincts. So the electronic voting machines that are touchstone or touch key voting machines now can easily be retrofitted with a mechanism that scrolls that ballot out there so you can see it through a piece of Plexiglass, records your vote on it, and touch a button and say, yes, I like that vote, that's how I voted, boom, drops down into the box. That is part of the paper audit trail. 
   It's that simple. That's the purpose of my bill. The purpose of it is to give that voter the complete confidence that the way they have cast their ballot is also the way that that ballot is recorded on the paper which becomes the audit trail; and then if there is an audit, the paper ballots are counted. That simple. 
   I mean, in Canada they just put a little X on the piece of paper, count those pieces of paper, and really don't have a lot of problem. We need to have the paper trail because electronically you just simply cannot guarantee an audit trail. 
   And we've lived with some unreliable audit trails in the past. The old lever voting machines, I don't think any of those are actually functioning at home anymore, but I voted with those old lever voting machines, and I didn't realize at the time that you simply can't really do an audit. You can go back, take it apart, look at that entire paper scroll that's back there, but you really can't do a legitimate audit. 
   And when something falls apart, when you have a meltdown, when you have a software failure or a hardware failure or you simply have a challenge to the integrity of the system, you have no way, Mr. Speaker, of knowing whether the electronic record that may remain on that hard drive, no matter how many redundancies you put into it, you can never assure that it hasn't been hacked. 
   As much as you want to trust the system, you still can't be sure of that. The only thing that you can trust is paper. We designate paper to be the trail. We stay out of the business of the States beyond that, but I believe it is to the interest of the Federal Government and the Congress and the people in this country to go to that step to ensure that when the next leader of the free world is selected that it is done with a process that has a maximum amount of integrity and the minimum amount of imposition of regulations on the States.     
   One of these pieces of the whole bill versus the Know Your Vote Counts bill that is the King bill is that it requires also that not only there be a paper audit trail but that the machines spit out a receipt that tells you how you voted. 
   Once you walk out of the room with your little receipt like your credit card receipt that says here is how you voted, it has absolutely no connection to the process in the voting booth. It does you no good. It is simply an expensive component and serves no purpose, except I will say that there is no machine that is manufactured anywhere that I know of certainly in the world, certainly in the United States, that at this point can comply with the language that is in the whole bill. 
   So I am submitting, Mr. Speaker, the bill that is Know Your Vote Counts Act. It is a very, very simple bill that simply requires a paper ballot to be generated, and that that paper ballot be verified by the voter, and that that paper ballot becomes the audit trail. It is that simple. It is something we need to do. This is 2007. 
   So I thank you for your attention, Mr. Speaker, and I yield back to the gentleman from New Jersey. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONSTITUTION CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. If the gentleman would yield. I think you have made the most salient point about the flaw in the whole bill, which there are two pieces of paper generated with every ballot. One of them becomes the audit trail that you can see through the Plexiglass, and when you push the button and say, I accept this as my vote, and it drops down into the lock box for the audit trail. And then of course the chain of custody of all of that is another subject we can talk about. 
   But to walk out of there with a receipt that says ``I voted this way'' does open up the door for the walking around money that we know goes on in some of these precincts to be handed over in exchange. And I can see where subcontractors could be hired to work within the neighborhoods, that you would pay a commission on how many ballots or how many receipts you could collect, so many dollars a vote. And you could say, okay, it is $20 for a vote and my commission is 5 bucks. So $25, $5 of which the contractor would get; that opens up the door for all kinds of vote buying. And that is the strongest, most compelling reason to reject the whole bill. And I will have this bill in and it will be available for Members to sign on to, and hopefully we can move it on the Know Your Vote Counts Act. It is a very much more narrow bill. 
   But there was another component that I left out of that in my earlier piece that I just want to inject into this discussion briefly. And that is, I said that we needed to have voter registration lists that are free of duplicates, deceased, and felons, and, that the 
   registrants be certified to be citizens on that list. But also, the requirement for a picture ID. I mean, they do that in places like Venezuela, a picture ID to go and vote, and that is a method by which you match up the name with the name on the registration. It is a small thing to ask for. And when I advocated for that, I ran into the opposition that said, well, no, that is a poll tax because everybody doesn't have a picture ID. My grandmother doesn't have a driver's license; therefore, she doesn't have any way to identify herself with a picture on it. 
   Well, I would argue that the Department of Transportation will issue one of those picture IDs for $5. But then that is charged to be a poll tax. And every argument will work in any port in a storm, but if you want integrity, those are the things you have to do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONSTITUTION CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Well, Mr. Garrett, first, I think in terms of if I needed to follow an electronic trail of, let's say, if I made a deposit that was an electronic deposit into, maybe it was an electronic automatic deposit into my bank, and the distributions that went out from automatic payments that go out of the bank, and in conjunction with credit card bills that flow around the country and come back, a full electronic trail, I have not run into an experience where I can't actually track all of that money, because someone is accountable at every level. 
   If the deposit doesn't show up in an automatic deposit, I can go back to the people that were to make that deposit, say, do that in the form of a paycheck or a purchase item. Well, where's your distribution record? Where's your transfer records? And if they don't have any, one can presume they never transferred the electronic deposit into my account. If there's money missing from my account, I can track and see where did it go. But I can have that confidence of doing that through the banks, through the credit cards without a lot of problem.  
   But we never know. We never know how a person actually votes. That secrecy of the way you vote cannot be tracked. Once you walk out of that voting booth, there's no connection between the voter and the actual ballot that was cast. So that requires a different level of integrity. And as far as an audio receipt that would say to you I just cast a ballot for SCOTT GARRETT, I ask, do you agree with that and push enter and walk out of there, the audio receipt that you might hear or electronic receipt that you might hear, does not preclude a hacking that could register a different kind of result. Those are the reasons why I track an audit trail, a paper audit trail. 
   And I would submit also that this bill that I have, the Know Your Vote Counts Act, is very, very simple language. And I want to applaud the folks in Utah and anyone who's mirrored their leadership for the integrity that they've put into their system with a picture ID and a paper audit trail. But it simply says the system shall provide an auditable paper record showing the vote that was cast and recorded by the system. And so the paper is the audit trail. And we don't prescribe how that is actually transferred, the records are transferred. That's also part of the whole bill. Requires certain methods of transfer of those records from the precinct on to the county and there on. We don't interfere in that. We just say, paper audit trail. Produce it. You can retrofit the existing machines. 
   I actually like the optical scanning ballots where you fill in the dot. And those have the, as far as my understanding of the technology, and I have looked at a lot of it, the highest level of accuracy. And we also have the auto mark ballots that will take the ballot, the paper ballot on the screen and you can push the button and it'll actually fill in the dot on the paper, and then that paper becomes the audit trail as it goes through the scanning device and counts the ballots. 
   So I'm for those things that are simple. But I do also know that human beings are fallible, and we need to have an audit trail for the machines that might well fail us and the people that might well fail us, and we need the highest accuracy that we can get. I think this bill provides this. And I do think they've got to get it right in Utah. Of all the things I've written for letters and articles, I must have sent one out there some time a long time ago and you guys picked up on that. No. I really want to compliment Utah. You've driven that yourselves for good reason, and I appreciate that, and I appreciate the fact that you have yielded to me, Mr. Garrett, and I'd yield back. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONSTITUTION CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New Jersey's yielding. 
   I just had a lingering question that I wanted to pose to the chairman of the Constitution Caucus, that being the issue that was raised here a half hour or so ago, Madam Speaker, and that is the issue of the electors who are chosen. And I would ask the chairman if he would opine on as to whether the electors are bound to vote as directed by the voters within the State or are they bound to vote according to their own conscience if push comes to shove? And do you know of instances where the electors have actually broken their faith with the voters and voted the opposite way within the States? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONSTITUTION CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. And I would concur with the gentleman from New Jersey, Madam Speaker. My recollection, and it is not recent research but dustbin recollection, honestly, of several instances where the electors, when formally casting a ballot for the presidency, have broken their faith with the voters, broken their pledge, and voted the opposite way. Not enough in our history to compel us to make that a mandatory vote, but enough of it in our history to ask us to be vigilant about that particular vulnerability, because that hangs upon the integrity of those who were chosen as electors who formally cast that ballot for President of the United States and could, if there were a small group or, under certain circumstances, even one of them that decided to take the destiny of the country and ultimately the world in their own hands, flip their vote the other way. 
   This system that we have, though, I appreciate a great deal. I know there has been an initiative more than once that has been offered generally, or, in fact, in all cases that I know of, from the Democrat side of the aisle to turn this Presidential election into a popular ballot as opposed to an electoral ballot. And I for one think that would be a horrible circumstance if we have such great difficulty down to 527 votes in a State like Florida with recount after recount. 
   And, by the way, history has established clearly that it was a proper result. All of the recounts, including the Miami Herald's audited analysis of that, came to the same conclusion that it was a Bush victory in 2000 over Al Gore. 
   Still, if we had a popular ballot for the United States, we wouldn't be able to settle the ledger for each State, for example. We would simply have tens of millions of votes all cast into one pot, and you could come down to one vote in the end. And it would be impossible, I believe, to do an audit trail of all of those ballots and come out with a national consensus on a popular vote. And as the President said, if he would have needed to win the popular vote in 2000, he would have campaigned to win the popular vote in 2000. But he campaigned to win the electoral vote because that's the rule that we operate under. And I think the Founding Fathers had a significant amount of wisdom and foresight to give us this electoral system. 
   No system is perfect, but this system does have a slight vulnerability, and that is the integrity of the electors themselves and then the integrity of the electoral process, which is significantly, I believe, more vulnerable. So that is why I advocate the Utah plan for the States in America and the No Your Vote Counts Act nationally so that we can have a paper audit trail to keep the integrity up so that people can have confidence and stand behind this system so our constitutional Republic will last for another couple of centuries anyway. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONSTITUTION CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. If the gentleman would yield, and I know we only have 2 minutes left, in that era, also, it wasn't contemplated that there would be essentially a two-party system that would so polarize the opinions on who should be the next President of the United States. I think the Founders envisioned more flow and flexibility between the two competing philosophies that were there surely and that we have in this day that are more distinct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONSTITUTION CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - September 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. If the gentleman would yield, John Quincy Adams has given me a significant amount of comfort the times that I have been in the small minority on the losing side of the votes here on the floor because he said, ``Always vote for principle, though you may vote alone. You can take the sweetest satisfaction in knowing that your vote is never lost.'' John Quincy Adams, a man of principle.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY POLICY -- (House of Representatives - May 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I thank you for recognizing me to address you here on the floor of the House of Representatives. 
   As a means of transition, and in fact it is not normal practice, but I would ask the gentleman from Texas if he might still be available to perhaps enter into a colloquy. If the gentleman from Texas would be interested in entering into a colloquy, I would be happy to ask him if he would yield for a question. I have been interested in listening to the presentations by the folks here, and I would ask if the gentleman from Texas would be willing to enter into a short colloquy just as a matter of clarification on our energy position? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY POLICY -- (House of Representatives - May 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Thank you. And I know you have been here on the floor talking about energy for the last hour. Just as a matter of transition, I would just ask a few clarifying questions. 
   The first one is, as I heard discussion about the Outer Continental Shelf, is there a nuance there? Are you for or against drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf for more energy? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY POLICY -- (House of Representatives - May 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Let me just if I could then thank the gentleman and go through a list of things that I think that we should engage expand the supply of energy. Drill the Outer Continental Shelf, gas and oil. Drill ANWR. Open up nuclear. Drill non-national park public lands. Expand ethanol, biodiesel, solar, wind, clean burning coal. And then out of this whole piece of the energy pie, then add another slice to that, which I presume you have talked about tonight, and that would be the slice called conservation. 
   Would that be the picture you are looking at that I think I heard as I listened to your presentation tonight? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY POLICY -- (House of Representatives - May 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. So for those reasons I asked for those clarifications, that helps me in my transition as I go into the presentation that I hope to make tonight on energy. I just want to make those clarifications, because it does provide for a transition for us, and it also identifies some common ground that we have. 
   I would state to the gentleman from Texas that my view is that the free market does prevail and that more Btus of energy on the market will help to hold down the increase in prices, and, if all goes well, to actually reduce those prices of energy. That is the approach that we should be able to arrive at in a bipartisan fashion. If the gentleman would agree? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY POLICY -- (House of Representatives - May 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time, I thank the gentleman from Texas and the gentlewoman from Texas. I know it is a little bit irregular to engage the people that have just completed a special order, but I think it is important for us to engage across the aisle. 
   I will transition to the things I came here to say, but I will be looking at the proposals that you have made here tonight and the language that you have. And I have been relatively aggressive on this energy issue, and I think we need to be very aggressive on this energy. 
   In fact, as we look across the spectrum of all of the components of energy, I wouldn't make anything off limits. I want to drill the entire Outer Continental Shelf, and I know of no natural gas spill that has affected the environment in a negative way. In fact, I don't know an Outer Continental Shelf oil drill that has affected the environment in any lasting negative way. 
   We did see a lot of stability in the Katrina hurricane and the subsequent hurricane that came after that. There was one oil platform that was broken loose in the Gulf, and it was pushed 60 miles and came upshore down by Mobile, Alabama. However, there wasn't a significant spill. We can do this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY POLICY -- (House of Representatives - May 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time, I appreciate the gentleman's remarks from Texas. I believe also that, at the very minimum, we ought to go out there and tack some wells in right up against those Chinese Cuban wells that are going in within 45 miles of Key West. I am all for that. And let's at least build a little barrier and get our share of that well and start pipelining it back in here if we can. I would be significantly aggressive on all of this. 
   I would say on the upside too, Madam Speaker, and to the American people, there are a couple of good things going on in America. One is that we have the structure put together where we can produce the first refinery since 1975. There will be a vote that comes up, it will be primary night, June 3rd, and if the people in Union County, South Dakota, decide they want to have a refinery in their Hyperion refinery, then very likely that will be the biggest roadblock for a large refinery to come in that would deal with the pipeline coming down from I call it the tar sands in Northern Alberta, a tremendously large oil supply up there. A pipeline would come down, and the crude oil would be refined there and then distributed across the area in a network of pipelines. That is something that we will find out here in a few weeks, if that is going to happen. 
   Another thing that America doesn't seem to know is that there is a nuclear plant that is being constructed--thanks again to the gentleman from Texas, Mr. Lampson--there is a nuclear plant that is being constructed in South Carolina. I am not certain when that goes on line, Madam Speaker. But those are two large milestones that are being driven by the market and by the need. 
   It is not being driven by this Congress. It is not being driven by this Congress, because this Congress has not taken any action to open up opportunities for refineries or open up opportunities for nuclear power plants or any other kind of power plant to be built. 
   This is happening because market forces are driving them, and the regulatory resistance is being overcome by very high energy prices. It is not because Congress reduced the regulations. It is not because Congress provided incentives. It is because the costs of energy are so overpowering that it is now starting to roll over the top of the prohibitory regulations that have been put in by this Congress and signed by more than one President. 
   So, the overall picture, Madam Speaker, is this: This is what I call the energy pie. It is a pie chart, and this is energy consumption 2007: 101.6 quadrillion Btus. Now, I could explain what all that is. That is a lot of Btus. It is important to look at it proportionately. Let's just say that is 100 percent of the energy consumption by British Thermal Unit in the United States. 
   This pie chart represents the percentages of their consumption that comes from each of these sources of energy. Natural gas, 23.3 percent of our energy consumption in the United States is natural gas. We use that for heating energy and for production energy and a lot of other ways. Natural gas is clean burning and it is environmentally fairly friendly. Also the coal is 22.4 percent. So coal and natural gas comprise about equal amounts, very equivalent amounts of energy consumption in the United States. 
   Then we go to nuclear. It is larger than most people will think. Even though we haven't built a nuclear plant since 1975, 8.29 percent of our energy consumption in the United States is produced by nuclear. That is a piece that in France, for example, their electrical generation is produced by nuclear. 78 percent of their megawatts of electricity are produced by nuclear. If the French can do that and do that without incident, do that without fear, do that without concern, we can produce a lot more energy by nuclear here in the United States. Now, that is environmentally friendly. It is clean burning. It is the safest form of electrical energy that we have, and we have been remiss in not continuing to develop our engineering capability to produce nuclear. 
   That slice of the energy pie could get a lot larger. It could take up some of this going to coal, it could take up some of this going to natural gas, because there is electrical production generation in each of these, natural gas and coal, and actually a lot of it, and the nuclear could be a bigger piece of this pie. 
   As we go around the chart, the hydroelectric is 2.4 percent. That is probably not going to get any bigger. That requires we build more dams. There are a lot of regulators in the way that don't want to see that happen. 
   As we go around the chart, you can see small pieces, geothermal, wind, solar, all less than 1 percent of the energy consumption. Fueled by ethanol is almost 1 percent is all. We would think that would be a lot more, Madam Speaker. 1 percent, but a growing number. Biodiesel is a tiny .06 percent of the energy there. Biodiesel is a fledgling part right now, and it may well become significant. Today it is a small piece. Wooden waste is bigger than we would think.  
   Then we get to gas, 16.9 percent, and diesel and heating oil, et cetera, is 8.84, and jet fuel, 3.31, and other petroleum projects, asphalt and heavy oils and those, 10 percent. That is the energy consumption. 101 quadrillion Btus of energy consumed in the United States. 
   Now, if we are going to look at how we address this energy situation, Madam Speaker, we need to look at it from the whole pie chart perspective. So often we are here debating on whether we should be drilling in ANWR or whether we should drill the Outer Continental Shelf or whether we ought to grow ethanol from corn or maybe grow ethanol from cellulosic, which is a big part of what is in the farm bill that maybe we will see again tomorrow. 
   What do we do with solar? There is plenty of solar power that cooks the United States, especially in the summertime and especially in the Southwest. Can we collect that and turn that into energy? Perhaps. 
   But as we have this debate, we can debate the relative merits of these sources of energy. But what I am not hearing the Members do or the leadership do or the American people or the business world in America, no one is out there pitching the big picture, pitching this picture that we had the conversation with Mr. Lampson, and that is the entire picture of energy, the holistic picture of energy, this energy pie. What is our solution? No one thing.     
   No one thing is the solution. And there are some parts that need to be bigger on this pie chart and there are others that need to be a little smaller on this pie chart. But maybe, maybe our solution instead is let's make all of these pieces of pie a little bit bigger and let's produce more BTUs of energy out of every source that we can. 
   As that happens and as market forces dictate, we will see, I believe, fuel from ethanol get up above 1 percent. I think actually from a gasoline standpoint we can take it to 13, 14, or maybe even 15 percent of the energy that today is being consumed by vehicles that burn gasoline or that burn generally a 10 percent blend of ethanol. So maybe this 1 percent here of the overall can become as much as 15 percent of the gasoline component, say 15 percent of this, 16 or 17 percent of the BTUs which is in gasoline today. That is one of the ways that it might change in proportion. 
   And so then another way that we can look at this is if we can produce a little more biodiesel, we can take a bigger piece out of the diesel fuel on this side. If we can increase nuclear, as I mentioned, then we can take a bigger bite out of the electrical production. And if we can produce more electricity with nuclear, then the pressure comes on natural gas and comes on coal to give up a little bit of that market share to nuclear. When that happens, it puts the coal and the gas in different areas and different markets, and perhaps keeps the price from going up or maybe even can get us a little bit lower price on our energy. 
   I think this: If we are consuming 101.6 quadrillion BTUs of energy and we are producing--this is the chart behind here, this is the energy that we are actually producing here in the United States--71.7 quadrillion BTUs of energy. 
   And so, Madam Speaker, just roughly speaking, we are producing about 72 percent of the energy in the United States that we are consuming here in this country, 72 percent of the energy. The balance of it presumably is imported. 
   Now, we can import it from Canada, we can import it from Venezuela, we can import it from Saudi Arabia and the Middle East; in fact, we do that from all of those places. But when we do that, it does a number of things to us. It makes us vulnerable and dependent upon Middle Eastern oil, for example, and makes us also dependent on Venezuelan oil and energy, and it makes us dependent upon the Canadians. Which is the least of my concerns. I am very happy to be doing business with the Canadians. If we are going to be importing energy from the western hemisphere or anyplace on the planet, I think from the Canadians is as good a place as there is. And we do import some oil from Mexico as well. 
   But if we are only producing 72 percent of the energy that we are consuming, that means then that we, just by simple math, are importing 28 percent of the energy that we are consuming. And I believe that we are importing 61 percent of the oil and gas or the crude oil, the products that we are using here in the United States, 61 percent of that imported. And as you see, we are producing I think all or very close to all of our own coal, we are producing a percentage of our natural gas. Not all of it, because a fair amount of that is imported into the United States. If you look at the hydroelectric, we are producing all of that, the geothermal, all of that. There are a number that we are doing, wind, solar, ethanol, as it goes around the corner. We are producing most of that. 
   But these other energies, the ones that we are most dependent on, Middle Eastern oil, 61 percent of our crude oil products imported, much of that from the Middle East. 
   We are very dependent upon it, and that needs to change, Madam Speaker. 
   So my policy is this. And I don't know, I haven't identified the distinctions between my approach and the gentleman from Texas who spoke in the previous hour. But my policy is this. Take this pie chart that we have, let's produce a lot more natural gas. Let's go offshore, drill the Outer Continental Shelf. Let's drill everywhere offshore in the United States. Let's first rush down there and set up our drill rigs right up against those Chinese drill rigs 45 miles from Key West and tack those wells in there and start pulling that oil out and work our way back. We will build a fence between us and them of oil wells right there on that line between Key West and Havana. 
   There is a lot of natural gas on the Outer Continental Shelf. And in that region from the gulf coast around Florida and back again, there are known reserves of at least 406 trillion--that is trillion with a T--cubic feet of natural gas that can be tapped offshore down that way. And there is a lot of gas in the gulf coast altogether. 
   We can produce a lot more natural gas. We can punch holes around the Outer Continental Shelf. We can do that offshore almost anywhere in the United States. There is natural gas almost everywhere offshore in the United States. But we need to expand that where we can develop the fields and be able to transport that gas effectively and efficiently. And the most promising region is offshore in the Outer Continental Shelf of Florida. 
   Now, I have a growing list of Florida Members of Congress who are willing to support drilling offshore in the Outer Continental Shelf, because they understand that this Nation is vulnerable to other countries for energy supply. And they are understanding more and more that if they are going to build generating plants in Florida, and they increasingly want to build them as natural gas fire generating plants, that they are going to have to go along with the idea of tapping into the resources that they have offshore in Florida itself. 
   So, they are concerned that people sitting on the beach might see an oil rig out there and not come back to the beach and sit down in the sunshine. Beautiful State, beautiful beaches. I don't think they are matched anywhere. But if you cannot see an oil well 200 miles offshore, you can't see a gas well 200 miles offshore. 
   To give an example, somebody in the Midwest that might think like me, if I am sitting down between Iowa and Missouri on the Missouri line, on the State line at say Lineville, for example, a little town right there on the Missouri line and Iowa, and I am sitting in my lawn chair gazing off to the north up to the Minnesota border, roughly 200 miles, maybe a little less, that is about what we are talking about. If we are worried about drilling offshore in Florida, 200 miles offshore in Florida, roughly the equivalent of sitting on the Iowa-Missouri border and wondering about whether you are going to have something mess up the scenery that is going to be a drill rig that would be up on the Minnesota border that far away and perhaps even a little further away, as I say, a growing number of the members of the Florida delegation willing to tap into this. 
   But truthfully, I say this to the good members of Florida, both Republicans and Democrats, those resources that  are offshore are American resources, not Florida resources, not Alabama or Mississippi or Louisiana or Texas resources. These are American resources, the resources that were claimed by President Reagan on the Outer Continental Shelf out to that 200 mile limit, I think the year was 1983. It seems as though Jimmy Carter made a move in that direction, too, and I can't remember exactly what he did, but I believe President Reagan declared our influence and declared the mineral rights out to the 200 mile limit. It wasn't a declaration of the Governor of Florida or the Governor of any other State that is a coastal State. It was a declaration by the President of the United States that claimed those resources for all the people in the United States. 
   And so as much as I like to see coalitions and like to see us get along and cooperate with each other, Madam Speaker, I will submit that the good people in Florida and the rest of the way around the coast, really, let's bring them into the dialogue. But this is an American situation, not a Florida or a Louisiana or a Texas situation, and we need to make a decision for America. I am increasingly hearing the Florida delegation make such decisions and take such stands. 
   If push comes to shove, I am going to say that it is America that will decide; it needs to be this Congress that decides. We need a President that will help us decide to do that, drill the Outer Continental Shelf. If we do that, natural gas gets more plentiful, and the law of supply and demand keeps these gas prices from going up and in fact pushes them down. If we can put a lot more natural gas into the marketplace, that means Florida can have the electricity that it needs to run its air 
   conditioners, and it means that they can have the natural gas that they need to generate their electricity, and that natural gas can be delivered to the rest of the country, heat our homes, run our generating plants that we need, too. 
   But, Madam Speaker, I would submit this. Let's put more natural gas into this marketplace. Let's put a lot more natural gas into the marketplace. But let's not turn a lot of it into electrical generation. Let's use this for the things we need it for. Let's use it for industrial production, plastics, for example. Mr. Peterson from Pennsylvania has given speech after speech on those necessities. 
   But let's also use the natural gas for fertilizer production, because that fertilizer is what is necessary in order to provide food for the American people and the people of the world. You simply can't produce food without nitrogen, the nitrogen that either is drawn from the air naturally through a crop or nitrogen that is put into the ground through the fertilizer. And 90 percent of the cost and of the feedstock that goes into the production of nitrogen fertilizer is natural gas itself. And so more natural gas available on the marketplace means that we will come back and rebuild the fertilizer production industry in the United States, and it frees up a lot more gas for the production of the things that we need as far as industrial production is concerned. Home heating is another way we can use natural gas. 
   And if we increase the production of the natural gas and we start taking away from the generation of electricity by natural gas and replace that with nuclear, you can start to see how the pieces of this pie will shift. American production can increase for natural gas, but actually the share of the overall consumption of energy could actually diminish even though we increased it because we will have more energy on the marketplace and more energy in the form of nuclear, which is here; the 11.73 percent of our production of energy is nuclear. But if we are down to the other chart, then it is 8.29 percent of our consumption is nuclear. That gives a sense of what we can do with this energy, grow the size of the energy pie. 
   Madam Speaker, this chart, this is energy consumption, 101.6 quadrillion BTUs of energy consumed in the United States, which tells us that about 28 quadrillion BTUs of energy is imported into the United States. So this energy pie that I just sat down here on the floor needs to be at least matched by the production energy pie chart here. And another thing that we can do is add another slice to this pie called energy conservation, so that on this consumption side we can replace some of that consumption of energy with the conservation of energy, efficient homes, efficient vehicles, and efficient generating plants, efficient plants of all kinds. 
   That is the view of the energy situation here in the United States, Madam Speaker. 
   And then I have another bar graph right here that helps lay out the proportionality of the different kinds of production that we have. I started on the bottom. For petroleum, it is 39.14 percent of our production. So we are dependent upon petroleum products significantly. It is almost 40 percent. 
   We go to natural gas. That is another well product, another petroleum hydrocarbon product, 23.25 percent of natural gas. These two things of course come out of the ground, deep wells, not quite of deep of wells as a rule. And coal. Coal has traditionally been a big part of our energy consumption here in the United States. And you see how, as we go to nuclear with 8.27 percent energy consumption, now it goes down 2.5 percent, hydroelectric about the same, ethanol less than 1 percent. And it gets down to where these other pieces, biodiesel, solar wind, geothermal and that are all tiny in comparison. 
   Another way to look at this is as we grow fuel by ethanol, that bar gets longer. Hydroelectric probably stays the same. And wind can get bigger, solar can get bigger, biodiesel can get bigger. But we are in the early stages of this, Madam Speaker. We have a lot to do, and we have a lot to do to expand each one of these kinds of energy that we have. 
   We are a Nation, we are a Nation that is sitting on a significant amount of natural gas. We actually have a wealth of natural gas. And I recall a statement made into the Congressional Record by a Member of Congress from Colorado about 3 or 4 years ago, and that is that we have enough natural gas in the United States underneath the non-national park public lands that if we would drill that natural gas in the known reserves, there is enough there to heat every home in America for the next 150 years, Madam Speaker, 150 years of heating every home in America just with the gas that is underneath the non-national park public lands, Bureau of Land Management lands, primarily. 
   And why can't we do that? Why can't we open up all those areas to drilling? We have do so in an environmentally friendly fashion; We have done so without spillage in a significant way without any kind of permanent environmental damage. And we need to open up our non-national park lands for drilling and for distribution. We can't be shutting people out of there by shutting off roads and not allowing them an ability to deliver the product. We have got to open this up and get the energy into the marketplace. 
   We do that, drill our non-national park public lands and we drill the outer continental shelf for gas and oil and we drill ANWR. And ANWR is the piece that I asked the gentleman from Texas about. I have long been an advocate for drilling in ANWR. I took a trip up there a few years ago because I had listened to the rhetoric about ANWR.     
   And the constant statement was that this is a natural, beautiful arctic wilderness. It's a place that wildlife needs to be able to roam without being disturbed by man, pristine wilderness area. 
   And so I remember seeing commercials on television that showed a beautiful alpine forest, a beautiful alpine forest represented as Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. And so I'm sitting there, like any American would be, thinking, boy, if we go up there and bulldoze those trees and start putting roads in and pipelines in and drilling into that beautiful alpine forest, it'll never be the same. 
   And I wasn't really totally shocked or surprised when I got up there, but I started to put all the pieces together. I was looking around for trees. And as we flew north, it was a long flight from where I saw the last tree out the window of the plane before we got to the place up there in ANWR where they want to drill. In fact, it's about 700 miles from the most northerly tree approaching the Arctic circle. It's about 700 miles south of the area they want  to drill in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, and then in a region with that Eskimo town called Kaktovik. That's about 250 to 300 people that live up there right on the Arctic Ocean. 
   So as we flew over that area, we flew over the north slope of Alaska, which had the pipeline. The Alaska pipeline was built beginning in 1972. And the wells were drilled up there beginning about that same period of time. And so for all these years we've watched crude oil be pumped down out of the north slope of Alaska into that pipeline and down to the Port Valdez, where it's been loading tankers, and the tankers have then gone down to the refineries along the West Coast. 
   Madam Speaker, the question continues, and that is that comments continually come to my office about allegations that that crude oil from Alaska is being exported to places like Japan. And once again, I looked into that. Once again I got the answer back that says no, that oil is going to the United States. It goes down for United States production. 
   Early on there were some market forces that sent some of that oil across over to Japan. It has been a long, long time since any of that oil has gone anywhere except into the U.S. marketplace. So I think we can be confident that the oil that would come out of ANWR would also come into the U.S. marketplace. In fact, it would go into the same pipeline. 
   And as the oil wells in the north slope start to wind down and start to slow in their production, we need to ramp up production next door in ANWR to bring that oil on-line and keep that Alaska pipeline full. If we fail to do that, the line will corrode on the inside and, as it starts to, it'll take a fair amount of renovation work to get it back up to speed again if we don't keep it working most of the time. 
   And so, as I looked at the ANWR region, and flew over that 19.6 million acres, I was looking for caribou herds that would be scattered out all over the place, and perhaps a lot of musk oxen and birds and polar bears, et cetera. 
   But, Madam Speaker, as much as we flew over that area and looked, from end to end, out and back, as low as we could safely fly, all of us looking out the window, the pilot finally spotted four musk oxen, four oxen standing out there in 19.6 million acres. And I'm sure we missed some animals. We didn't see them all. They were standing there with their head down, doing nothing, just standing there, four of them all in a little group. And we saw that, and two big white birds. I don't know what kind they were. That's all we saw for wildlife across that whole region. 
   But what we know is this, that there is not a native caribou herd in ANWR, in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. It is a kind of a maternity ward where caribou migrate in from Canada in the spring, starting perhaps a week or 10 days into May, and they have their calves in there in that region around the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. And once those calves get big enough, then they migrate back to Canada mid June or the latter part of June. That's the extent of the caribou herd. 
   Now, if we're worried about caribou, we ought to look and see what happened to the caribou herd on the north slope of Alaska where we have about, let's say, 36 years of experience up there building pipe lines, drilling oil wells and delivering oil onto the marketplace of the world. 
   And so the caribou herd that was 7,000 head of caribou back in 1970 today is over 28,000, and the herd is growing. That doesn't tell me that the work that's been done on the north slope has been detrimental at least to the caribou herd which is more than four times what it was back in 1970 when they first began the operations. Court injunction shut it down for 2 years, and then the work really began in 1972, as I recall. 
   But from 7,000 caribou to 28,000 caribou on the north slope, I don't think we ought to worry about the caribou, if that's our issue, and any kind of environmental reason that they might come up with on the other side of the aisle not to drill. So all the indications are that the caribou are going to do just fine with the pipeline running through them and some oil rigs that are drilling. 
   We think, somehow, that wildlife just simply is not compatible with man and not compatible with machines, not compatible with oil drilling or pipelines or road construction or populations. So Madam Speaker, I would submit that there are a number of examples that would beg otherwise, and that would be-- 
   Well, one of those easy examples would be, let's see, I get my days right. Night before last, as my wife and I were walking down the street at about let me see, pretty close to Sixth and Pennsylvania Avenue Southeast, there a furry raccoon ran down the sidewalk on the other side of the street, almost in the heart of downtown Washington, D.C. And a raccoon figured out how to live inside Washington, D.C. It's the first one I've seen running around on the streets. I was quite surprised, but there he was. 
   Another example, Madam Speaker, would be, I recall my wife and I were doing a little road trip. We had driven up to the end of the road in northern Ontario. And there's a paved highway that goes up to a city by the name of Red Lake, Ontario, actually a fairly small town but along the shore of the lake there, a beautiful region. And it's vast and it's wild, and it's open wilderness. 
   But I'd always been concerned about how the eagle would adapt to humanity. And I recall working on a job in Southwest Iowa where the Department of Natural Resources, in a heavy timber, discovered one of the earliest eagle nests in modern times in the State of Iowa. And this would be back in, I believe, 1986. The game warden told me about the eagles nest, but would not tell me where it was because he said that if I would walk down there I would scare the eagle off the nest and the eagle would fly away and the eggs wouldn't hatch. That was the concern about scaring an eagle out of their reproduction operation. And that was things we heard many times, that these animals do not, and they're not very compatible with humanity. 
   Well, Madam Speaker, I don't know what happened to that eagle out in that heavy timber in Southwest Iowa. I presume she hatched out her eaglets and they flew away, because we've got a lot of eagles living in the country side now, these 22 years later. 
   But what I did see up there in Northern Ontario were the highway, a paved highway that actually has a reasonable amount of traffic going north and south. It's two lanes. But it's split around a high line pole, a big tall high line pole that was perhaps over 100 feet high. And as we drove by, we had the top down, and I looked up on top of that pole and there was an eagle nest with an eagle sitting in it, keeping an eye on all the traffic that was buzzing by right directly underneath its necessary. 
   Now, that tells me that animals are fairly compatible. All of them maybe are not. And the argument about the spotted owl, I don't have quite the personal experience rebuttal to that. But we do know that peregrine falcons live pretty well in the city if they can prey on the pigeons that also live pretty well in the city. 
   And so time after time we find out that animals adapt to their environment, and a lot in the same way that people do. They will find a way to find some feed and find some shelter and reproduce and hatch some little ones out. The caribou found out how to do that in the 
   north slope. 
   There's not a problem in ANWR. No one can create an environmental scenario that tells me that we should go without energy in America. 
   But we do have the situation where the Secretary of the Interior has put the polar bear on the threatened species list. Now, this polar bear that has watched its population over the last 2 decades go from about 7,000, maybe as low as 5,000 polar bear, now up to about 25,000 polar bear. That would be the world population of polar bear. We've watched polar bear numbers that are blossoming, anywhere from 3 1/2 to five times the population of polar bear that it was 20 years ago. 
   And yet, for the first time in the history of the country, the Secretary of the Interior has put an animal on the threatened species lists because of the predictions from the global warming enthusiasts of what will happen to its environment if they are right. 
   Now, Madam Speaker, I will submit that that polar bear will become the  tool and the pawn and the toy of litigation after litigation after litigation that will be designed to shut down the development of energy exploration and production in all of those regions where the polar bear might roam or might have roamed. That's what we can expect coming, because this debate isn't really about the well-being of the polar bear. 
   This debate is about people on that side of the aisle, not all of them, but I do believe the majority of them, Madam Speaker, that really in their heart of hearts don't mind seeing expensive energy. They don't mind seeing $4 gas. In fact, I don't think they'd mind seeing 6, 8 or $10 gas because they believe that the higher the cost of energy, the less of it we will use. 
   If gas goes to six bucks or 10 bucks, more people will park their car, more people will ride their bicycle, more people will walk, more people will take mass transit, and more people will stay home. If all of that happens, their calculus is that we'll use less energy per capita, instead of more energy per capita, and the net result will be that, in their mind, that they saved the planet from global warming. 
   Well, this is a long ways from subtle science, and we should not be handicapping the economy of the United States of America for the purposes of people who believe we should have a more expensive energy policy. 
   So in spite of what I heard the gentleman from Texas say, and I don't discount his word, nor do I challenge his integrity. I will submit that his party has only brought energy issues to this floor of Congress that have raised the cost of energy by making it more scarce. 
   They've tried to bring windfall profits taxes on the energy companies. They're the ones that are keeping our energy at least as low as it is today. They're slowing the increase in prices, companies like Exxon, for example, that are putting billions of gallons of gasoline out there in the marketplace. 
   If they stop producing because we punish them, gas is going to go up, not down. We don't get cheaper gas prices by punishing energy companies, and we don't get cheaper gas prices by taxing companies after the fact in windfall profit taxes, Madam Speaker, because what will happen is they'll sit around the boardroom and they'll decide, wait a minute. We paid our royalties to the Federal Government for the energy that was there. We entered into these agreements in good faith. We're an efficient company, an efficient company that drilled and explored the leases that they paid for, put that energy on the marketplace for a fair market price and paid the royalties to the Federal Government for that. 
   Now, how do we come in and change the deal? 
   How do we say, if you don't renegotiate those lease agreements with the Federal Government, we're not going to let you enter into another lease agreement. We're going to hold a gun to your head and make you capitulate and change. The deal's not a deal, according to some folks on this side of the aisle, and a lot of them are driving the agenda. 
   And so, Madam Speaker, I submit this, that a deal must be a deal. And we can't be penalizing energy companies that are out there exploring, risking billions of dollars in capital, and putting gas and diesel fuel and oil and kerosene and jet fuel and asphalt for our roads all out there on the marketplace, keeping the price as low as possible. 
   They're competing in this marketplace. And yes, they are making some money. But if their Board of Directors are listening, they're hearing what this Congress is saying to demonize the people that are producing the energy, and they're starting to wonder, shouldn't I take some of that billions in profit and invest that in some other industry someplace where Congress isn't going to come in and tax me after the fact? 
   If they play by the rules, every company that plays by the rules should be able to count on the Federal Government keeping their part of the bargain. And whatever the tax structure is when they enter into the agreement should be the tax structure that they comply with, at least for that year that they've entered into and the corporate tax and the royalties that are designed to be part of it. 
   I've spent my life in the business world, 28 years meeting payroll, doing construction work, entering into contracts, some written, many written actually, many more verbal contracts, sometimes a hand shake, sometimes we didn't bother, sometimes it was over the phone, sometimes it was just simply eye contact, nod, and we have the kind of relationship where we know we'll each keep our deal.     
   I respect a contract. I respect a deal and an agreement. That's what makes the economic world go round. People that have integrity that understand that a deal is a deal are what keeps this world going. And we have verbal agreements that go on up into the hundreds of millions of dollars, and in the end, we're evaluating the character of the people that are entering into those. 
   I would also submit that one of my favorite energies here on this chart, the energy production, which is the fuel by ethanol, this .94 of a percent here, is getting a bit of a bad rap. And it's getting a bit of a bad rap by the folks who just simply don't like the competition of ethanol. I think it's become a political argument rather than a rational scientific argument. 
   I know a couple of scientists in this Congress who are working and tracking the three laws of thermodynamics, and I hope they're paying attention when I make this argument, Madam Speaker, and that is this: according to Argon Labs out of Chicago--first the argument that comes from ethanol's critics is it takes more energy to produce ethanol than you get out of it. Madam Speaker, I submit that's factually incorrect. 
   If ethanol from corn can only be calculated if you take a bushel of corn and you say, All right, now I have this bushel of corn here sitting here at the ethanol plant, I want to convert it into ethanol. How much energy does it take to convert this bushel of corn into ethanol compared to how much energy do I get out of this bushel of corn? And if you're going to be fair about it, if we're comparing it to gasoline, we have to also measure how much energy it takes to refine the same amount of energy from crude oil into gasoline, because it takes energy to do that, too. 
   Here are the numbers, Madam Speaker. To produce one Btu of energy in the form of ethanol from corn, you will consume, according to Argon Labs, .67 Btu as the energy that it takes to get an entire Btu out of corn in the form of ethanol from shell corn sitting at the gates of the ethanol plant. That's the equation. 
   But if you go down to the oil refinery, let's just say in Texas, and you have a barrel of crude oil sitting at the gates of the oil refinery of Texas, how much energy does it take to get a Btu, a British thermal unit of energy in the form of gasoline out of that crude oil? That, Madam Speaker, is 1.3 Btu's; .67 to get one out of corn ethanol, 1.3 Btu's to get one out of gasoline refined from crude oil. Almost twice as much energy to craft gas out of crude as it is to convert corn into ethanol, Btu to Btu. 
   Another way to look at that is a gallon of gasoline is, for round purposes, is 100,000 Btu's of energy. Let's just say it takes a little bit more of a gallon in the form of ethanol, but let's say we had two jugs sitting here, one has ethanol in it and one has gasoline in it, each are 100,000 Btu's. Well, to produce 100,000 Btu's of ethanol it took 67,000 Btu's of energy to convert corn into ethanol. 67,000 Btu's to get 100,000. And to convert crude oil into 100,000 Btu's, roughly a gallon of gasoline, it takes 130,000 Btu's to get your 100,000, roughly a gallon's worth. 
   So there's your answer, about twice as much energy to convert gas from crude oil as it is to convert corn into ethanol. 
   Those are laboratory scientific facts, Madam Speaker, and those are facts that ethanol's critics cannot get around. And so let me take us to another level. 
   Since it doesn't take more energy than you get out of it, .67 Btu's to get one full Btu of energy out of corn, since it doesn't take more energy, it does for gasoline, it doesn't for ethanol, then the only other argument that remains is well, food versus fuel, Madam Speaker. 
   And the argument that we're using this corn for fuel instead of feeding the world population, well, we have a lot of folks who think we take field corn and, I suppose, set it on our plates and cook  it up and feed it. Now, that may well be how we make grits. I don't know that. We don't make any grits in Iowa, but I do have a little sack on my shelf. And other than that, our corn goes to about some 300 products, maybe a little bit more than that. Corn sweetener and a whole variety of products including, I think, the forks, knives, and spoons at the Longworth cafeteria are today now made from corn. 
   But we produced 13.1 billion bushels of corn last year in the United States. Now, that's the annual crop for the 2007 crop, 13.1 billion bushels of corn. Now, if we're going to argue that food prices went up, I'm going to take that argument away also from ethanol's critics, and here's how it is. We produce 13.1 billion bushels of corn. We exported more corn than ever before. We exported 2.5 billion bushels of corn. And so more corn exported than ever before, and you subtract that 2 1/2 billion from the overall crop of 13.1, you end up with 10.6 billion bushels of corn left over after we exported more than ever before. 
   Then we converted 3.2 billion bushels of corn into ethanol, roughly 9 billion gallons of ethanol, 3.2 billion. 
   So remember, we were at 13.1 billion bushels, overall production, minus 2 1/2 billion bushels for export, leaves us 10.6 billion. Then from that we subtract 3.2 billion that went to ethanol. That takes us down to 7.4 billion bushels of corn left over for domestic consumption. 
   Now, that happens to be the exact number that is the average of our corn that's available for domestic consumption for all of the other years of this decade is 7.4 billion bushels of corn. 
   So one would say by this argument we didn't really take any corn out of the availability for food for domestic consumption in the United States because we still have 7.4 billion bushels left over after we exported 2 1/2 billion bushels after we converted 3.1 billion bushels into ethanol, we still end up with 7.4 billion. But additionally, we have to add back in half of the bushels that we converted to ethanol because at least half, Madam Speaker, of that corn has a retained feed value in the protein that we did not use, the protein that goes back in livestock feed in the form of DDG, dried distiller's grain. 
   So you add 1.6 billion bushels back in, and that says last year, 2007 crop, the average annual domestic corn crop for the decade is 7.4 billion, but the 2007 year, there's 9 billion bushels of corn that were available for domestic consumption. That says the supply for domestic consumption went up, not down. If the supply went up, then we can't be arguing that the food-versus-fuel argument, although I will say that if you dump 3.2 billion bushels of corn into the domestic market, and it would push the price, and that would be a lot better for our livestock producers, especially our pork producers. 
   But that's not the case. It's 9 billion bushels available where 7.4 normally are available. I think that takes that argument away that the high costs that are there today that are putting so much pressure on our pork producers are at the burden of ethanol, yes, it's part of it. It's part of it. 
   But, Madam Speaker, I will submit that the low dollar is a bigger part of it. And according to some financial experts that I have met with, people whom I respect, their judgment is sound and they're well respected in the country, the cheap dollar has more to do with high grain prices and high gas prices than most people will calculate. 
   So, for example, if about 35 percent of the value of our commodities, such as crude oil, is wrapped up in the cheap dollar, we could take $129 crude oil and say well, about two-thirds of that is where oil would be today if our dollar were shored back up and it was more traditional values than it is right now. And I know that some think that we should try to encourage the European Union to devalue their Euro. I don't know that that can be done from the United States any more effectively than we can convince the Saudis to put more crude oil out on the marketplace. 
   But we can shore up the value of the dollar, Madam Speaker. We can and we should shore up the value of the dollar. And we ought to take some dollars out of circulation. We ought to make an announcement that we're going to hold a tighter money supply and push the value of the dollar up. If that happens, and we can get the dollar back to its traditional values, the gas that we're looking at today that on the streets tomorrow or by next week will be $3.80 a gallon, would only be, with a more traditional value of our dollar, about $2.47 a gallon. 
   That's still too high in my view, Madam Speaker. 
   So the combination of these things, the combination of the speculators that expect that energy is going to be more scarce in the future, is driving up the price of energy, the intimidation effect of windfall profit taxes and higher regulations and the constant beating that the energy supply companies take here on the floor of this Congress pushes up the energy prices. 
   The bill that passed today that was debated yesterday, the NOPEC bill, the bill that says it's unlawful for the organization, the petroleum export companies, OPEC, the bill that says it's unlawful for OPEC to exist and grants the authority to the Department of Justice to sue those OPEC countries, and if they successfully bring suit, one could presume that they could freeze the accounts of the investments of those oil companies here in the United States, at least the sovereign wealth accounts that they might have invested in U.S. products. It is a move that drives up more energy prices. 
   The Middle Eastern countries that are part of OPEC, because when we passed NOPEC here in this Congress, they are not going to produce more energy to get Congress off their back because they know Congress doesn't know how much energy they produce. They know this, that the oil that sits underneath their land is their oil, and they will market it in a way that serves their interest best. That's the bottom line. That's free market capitalism. And even though a lot of those countries don't have the level of freedom that we have, they do understand the market system. 
   So if we say to them that we're going to turn the attorney general loose, create a task force to study this and then give the attorney general the authority, the Department of Justice the authority to bring suit against the OPEC countries, I'll submit this, Madam Speaker, they're not going to produce more energy; the best we could hope for is they produce the same amount of energy, and we have to hope that they don't reduce that energy supply, and we have to hope that they don't pull their capital out of the United States out of fear that their assets could potentially be frozen in the aftermath of a suit that could be brought by the attorney general. 
   Only bad things can come from the NOPEC bill that passed the floor of this Congress. It's going to make energy either the same or more scarce. Just like every other piece of energy legislation that's been brought in this Pelosi Congress that's made energy more scarce, more expensive, provided more regulations and more intimidation, more taxes on our energy producing companies. That's wrong. 
   And what we have been doing is growing an industry. We've been growing the corn-based ethanol industry. This piece right here. This probably, by now, exceeded 1 percent of our overall energy consumption in the United States. 
   We need to, Madam Speaker, grow the size of the energy pie. This is the energy production chart, 71.7 quadrillion Btu's of energy produced from all of these sources, and they come with crude oil, liquefied petroleum, natural gas, coal, nuclear, hydro-electric, geothermal, ethanol, biodiesel, solar, wind, all of these sources. This is the energy production chart, 71.7 quadrillion Btu's. This is the energy pie that we need to grow. 
   We need to grow this energy pie to the size of this energy pie, Madam Speaker. This one that is 101.6 quadrillion Btu's. Now this circle should be bigger in proportion to the one behind it. We will get our graphics down a little better later on, Madam Speaker, but this is what we need to do: grow the size of the energy pie so the energy-consumption chart, which is behind here, excuse me, the energy-production chart, which is behind here, equals or exceeds the size of the energy consumption chart which is this one here, the 101.6 quadrillion Btu's. 
   If we do that, we will see energy prices go down in America, we will see gas at a price that a working man and woman can afford it again, and we will see ourselves become significantly less  dependent, in fact independent from foreign sources of energy and oil and, and if we do that, the prospects for America's balance of trade, the prospects for the stability of our currency, the prospects for the future of the United States of America, of our children and grandchildren and each succeeding generation, gets greater and greater. 
   That is our responsibility, Madam Speaker. It is our responsibility to advance the American dream. Advance it for our children and advance it for our grandchildren. We need to do that with a comprehensive approach to the big picture in every way that we can. We cannot do it by increasing the cost of energy by making it more scarce and intimidating our energy-producing companies. That's the theme that the American people understand. 
   And I will submit, Madam Speaker, that the clearest thing for the American people to understand is drill ANWR. Drill in ANWR, drill now, drill as fast as we can. It doesn't take any 10 years to get that energy on the marketplace.     
   How can we, on the one hand, how can we say, well, there's only enough energy up there to last for 5 years and we can't get it into the marketplace for 10? That doesn't make sense to me, not in a Nation that can have a Manhattan Project that can, in a few very short years, produce an atom bomb and deliver it, or in a few very short years, from the time John F. Kennedy said we're going to the moon, by 1969 we were on the moon. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE -- (House of Representatives - May 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Texas for organizing this Special Order and each of the Members of Congress who came down here to the floor to stand up for our he brave men and women who defend our freedom. And I know you will be there when they need you. 
   I just would add a few pieces to this, as I have listened to the dialogue that has gone on here tonight, and one of them is that we all have constitutional responsibilities. And 435 of us come down here to this floor, and we take an oath together to uphold this Constitution of the United States. Now, you would think that would mean something to everyone, ``So help us God.'' 
   And by the way, I bring my Bible here to make sure that I am swearing on a Bible at the time. But I also carry with me this Constitution. And you don't have to be a constitutional scholar to read this, you can read it pretty well with a sixth- or eighth-grade education. But what it says in here is Congress has three responsibilities when it comes to war. One of them is to declare war, which we haven't done since World War II. The second one is to raise an Army and a Navy and, by implication, an Air Force. And the third one is to fund it. 
   And, yes, there are conditions in there that allow us to regulate some things that go on within the military, like how they're going to run their military courts and how we are going to do promotions and things of that nature, but there is no provision in this Constitution for micromanaging a war or for being a general if you're in the United States Congress. In fact, the experience that our Founding Fathers had with the Continental Congress and the Continental Army brought them to draft into this Constitution the office of Commander in Chief because they wanted to avoid the very circumstances that we are fighting off here in this Congress. 
   So if anyone thinks they ought to be a general, they 
   ought to be in the military to do so. You can't be a general here from Congress. Your job is to be a generalist, someone who stands up for this Constitution, and someone who adheres to your oath to uphold this Constitution. That means maybe on a very sad day we may someday be obligated to declare a war. 
   Let's keep raising the Army and the Navy and the Air Force, and let's keep funding our military men and women that are out there in harm's way with their lives on the line for our freedom. That is the constitutional responsibility. 
   As I look back through the history of this country, I find no place where we have come to a constitutional challenge where the President had to make a decision to veto a funding bill and  have to face a veto override, which everyone knew was not going to pass, and now held the line. And I am really glad that it isn't coming down to the line where we are mothballing some of the development of our military equipment just so we can play this political game out here. That's not our job. 
   Even if you go back to the Vietnam War, the President signed the appropriation bills that took the military out of North and South Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia, out of the skies over them and out of the seas around them and said not 1 dollar will be spent in support of the military effort of the South Vietnamese and defending them themselves. And there are 3 million lives that paid in the aftermath of our lack of keeping our promise with the South Vietnamese. 
   That is on the conscience of the people of this Congress that didn't adhere to this Constitution. We don't need that on our conscience, and we don't need the enemy of Iran with a nuclear weapon in their hands on the control of the valve at the Straits of Hormuz, where they control the economy of the world as well as the development of the military within themselves. They can buy as many nuclear scientists as they want if they can just put their hands on the valve of the oil that goes to the world. 
   So that is where the problem is. We must succeed. There is far more at stake than the people on the other side of the aisle understand or will admit. 
   I will yield back to the gentleman who organized this Special Order, Mr. Neugebauer of Texas, and thank him for organizing this meeting. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word. 
   Mr. Chairman, the timing of this discussion, I really asked to be recognized to address the Drake amendment, but as I listened to the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, I think there are some things that we need to take up and add to this particular discussion that he's opened up. 
   And that is, what do we do about this conundrum of earmarks? First of all, we do have too many earmarks, and I've not been one that's said that that solves our spending problem here, but I think it puts bait out there for people to do things that, first of all, if the bloggers could see the things that are going on, they would weigh in on us, and perhaps that would be some of the regulatory function that the bloggers could perform. 
   But a couple of nights ago, I sat down and went through two appropriations bills. One of them was the omnibus spending bill for 2005, 1,600 pages; another appropriation bill, 400 pages; all together, 2,000 pages. And I didn't read it all, wouldn't have been possible, but I leafed through that appropriations bill, and I find in there earmarks that wouldn't be identified as earmarks. I find in there language that says this funding shall go to this company as funded in previous years. 
   And my recommendation to the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, who hopefully would hear what I would have to say, that being a bill I introduced last year called the CUT Act, ``cut unnecessary tab,'' as in a bar tab, unnecessary spending. But what it does is it solves the problem that's been identified here and, to some degree, described by the chairman of the Appropriations Committee and articulately addressed by Mr. Pence and others here on this floor. 
   It puts us all up to public scrutiny. Sunlight is the antidote, and we ought to have enough pride in every earmark that we ask for that we would allow the public to see what we're doing with our spending. 
   And when I look through an appropriations bill, 2,000 pages of them, and I see that even if you knew what you were looking for, you couldn't identify that earmark, you couldn't identify the amount. You might identify the company that it goes to, but unless you had an in with the committee staff and you could trace back through that paperwork, and no one outside this Chamber that I know of can do that without favors by a Member, and a lot of Members couldn't walk in there and get that information, including myself. We need to set this all up for the public scrutiny. 
   So I spent a couple of years working through my proposal, and I'll hopefully be able to introduce the language again so it's here and goes into this discussion. But the CUT Act makes in order a bill to come to the floor once a quarter that is a rescissions bill and a rescissions bill only. It might just be a blank title offered by the majority leader or the minority leader on the  other side, but every Member could bring an amendment down to that. 
   And it takes this idea that once you go to the conference report and you offer it to the House and the Senate, up-or-down vote, no amendments, no one can know what's in there and no one can read it all, no one can analyze it if they can read it all, but if we put that all up and post it up on the Internet and let the world look at what we're doing and then bring a bill to the floor that's a rescissions bill and let any Member bring an amendment to strike something like the reference was to the ``bridge to nowhere,'' put that up on an up-or-down vote and accumulate that list of rescissions. Then, in the end, we've got an appropriations process that everyone in this Chamber, no one will have an excuse to say I couldn't find that amendment; I couldn't find that language; I couldn't take it out; it wasn't my responsibility. We all become collectively responsible for every dollar spent by this Congress, and if we do that, we truly have sunlight and we truly have a full responsibility. And that's the step that we need to take. 
   The rest is rhetoric. The rest is hiding behind one side of political argument or the other, but if we're willing to put our earmarks up for an up-or-down vote and let this Congress go on record for any line item, then we truly have the sunlight on this that we've asked for; and I'd ask that consideration from the chairman of the Appropriations Committee. 
   The people that want to stand up for reform, here it is, the CUT Act. 
   And then in the moments I have left, I would add that I stand in support of the Drake amendment. And I grew up in a law enforcement family. You cannot enforce laws effectively if you're going to have local government or State law enforcement that decides that they can't engage in enforcing Federal law or vice versa. This has got to be a kind of working, compatible relationship so that the city police, county sheriffs, highway patrolmen and Federal officers all work in a collaborative arrangement. And we need to have the resources to train those local officers. 
   When we have people on the streets that are picked up two, three, four, five or six times for a traffic violation or an insurance violation, or in an accident or a minor misdemeanor, and they're released back into society and then someone is killed or someone is raped or someone is robbed from, the price to this economy and this society is horrible and horrendous. 
   And we can't get government to tell us what those numbers are, but I commissioned a GAO study here that was released in April of 2005 that produced those numbers, and I'll bring those numbers back to this floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONDITIONS AT WALTER REED ARMY MEDICAL CENTER -- (House of Representatives - March 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Texas for organizing this Special Order hour and for gathering together a lot of patriotic Americans and shedding some objective light on the health care situation with our men and women; and like many of the Members who have spoken earlier in this hour, I am one who has also made consistent trips over to Iraq, Afghanistan, the hospital, Landstuhl in Germany, and, also, I make it a point to be one place or another to visit our wounded, at either Walter Reed or Bethesda or Landstuhl. So I have been to Walter Reed a number of times, and saw nothing like I saw described here on the floor of the House of Representatives, and make no excuses for that. In fact, like everyone else, I believe we needed to fix it and we did fix it as quickly as possible. 
   The people that come down here to the floor night after night after night with the same poster that had the words cockroach, mold and mice on it have been repeating the same mantra, but they have not seen anything like we are describing here night after night after night. This was, as I understand it, two rooms out of 300 and some altogether in a place where no one goes. The people that were there were ambulatory patients that liked it there because they were a little off campus, they had a little more freedom. So those were the circumstances. They have been fixed. 
   But I will say what this needs to be: this needs to be a message to us, a kind of reminder, a wake-up call, because what I saw here demonstrated by Mr. Burgess, which is that there are patients there whose care is too bureaucratic, we can use this as a launching pad to bring software into place and to put into place a patient tracking system that will compare the tracking of these patients and the timeliness of their care with that in the private sector and have red flags come up on those files if there is a time they are not being dealt with in a fashion they should be. We can get this set up. It needs to be managed in that fashion. 
   I will also say that the VA hospitals have taken a fair amount of criticism on this. The ones that I go visit have modern health care and a modern tracking system and a bar code that goes on the wrist of the patient. When they go in there, they read that bar code and within seconds their full medical record is there; any pharmaceuticals that have been prescribed by them are all right there. It reduces and almost eliminates mistakes for prescriptions, for example. 
   There are a lot of modern pieces that have been put together. Most of our VA hospitals, and the ones I know, do a good job. They shouldn't be dragged into this, and the Walter Reed piece of this, we can do a better job. More of it has to do with patient management and timeliness of care and modernizing the recordkeeping system. Little of it has to do with putting plaster up on the wall and putting carpet into place. Let's use the need to do this to get this place, put Walter Reed back into the 21st century and give these men and women the very best top-notch care that is possible. 
   We can do that. The people doing the work, we need to applaud them, not criticize them. They give their hearts and their minds and their energy to our brave men and women who have given their life and limb for our freedom and for our liberty. 
   The only thing that they are short of is they suffer from compassion fatigue, and they get burned out on these jobs. But what I see, selfless Americans are doing the best job they can. We can give them some better tools to work with, which has to do with tracking the patients and being more timely in the service we provide. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - March 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I appreciate the privilege and the honor to be recognized here on the floor of the United States Congress this evening and the chance to pick up where some of my colleagues left off here. But I pretty much had my say about Walter Reed, and I support and endorse the remarks that were made over the last 60 minutes, and I intend to move on to another subject matter here. 
   I do just simply want to restate that the care that they are provided is good and it is solid. And as I talked to patients at Walter Reed, Bethesda, Landstuhl, continually, they are very, very grateful for the quality of the care. We have some of the best experts in the world treating some of these kinds of injuries; and to look them in the eye and see the level of their commitment, you just know that they are giving it everything that they have. 
   I am not hearing patient complaints about the care, but about sometimes the timeliness of the recordkeeping and the timeliness of the treatment that is there.     
   There will be always be things that fall through the bureaucratic cracks, and it is our job to try to seal those cracks up and do the best job that we can. I think we are going to get that done. Certainly, though, I want to make sure that America, Madam Speaker, understands the commitment that is made on the part of the medical care providers for our military men and women, and that is what we must do in order to support their effort and support their sacrifice. 
   Madam Speaker, I came to the floor tonight to talk about an issue that I have been here before to raise, and hopefully I will be back again to raise, and that is this broad, overall immigration issue that has captured the debate field in the United States for the last 3 years or more. And what brings me to the floor tonight is a sense that there is a growing effort on the part of the White House, on the part of the Senate and on the part of some here in the House, to build a kind of a critical mass coalition that would bring what they would call a comprehensive immigration reform bill through the Senate and then quickly over here to the House, which I would consider to be a steamrolled or a stampeded bill, something that we don't know what is going on behind the scenes, or there has been hardly anything leaked. And I believe it is their effort to try to get enough Members, a majority, and that would be something or a filibuster proof majority in the Senate and a significant majority here in the House to buy on to a policy that they have never seen, one that is not in print yet, or at least not filed, not dropped, in the fundamental sense, but only get people, people, and I mean Members and Senators, to sign off conceptually, and say I conceptually endorse a comprehensive immigration reform bill. 
   Well, first, Madam Speaker, the American people need to understand that when the word ``comprehensive immigration reform,'' when that phrase is used, that means we don't like to admit amnesty. But comprehensive is a substitution for the word ``amnesty.'' It has been that way for 3 years. It will be that way until this debate is maybe over for this cycle. 
   But I recall when the President gave his first immigration reform speech was January 6 of 2004, 3 years and a couple of months ago. There he brought out a lot of the same things that he is standing for now. And the President says that he is opposed to amnesty. But I will say that Ronald Reagan signed a bill that Ronald Reagan called amnesty that is very much the kind of policy that is being advocated by the White House. 
   I am greatly concerned about this moving so quickly with so little information that the American people would not have an opportunity to weigh in, would not have an opportunity to call and write and e-mail and fax their Senators and their House Members to be able to try to move the center, I guess, of the Republican and Democrat House of Representatives and the Senate. 
   And so it is important that I call upon Members, don't sign off on something till you read the fine print. The devil is in the details. The devils were in the details last year when the Senate moved their immigration reform bill and the details turned out to be tens of millions of people. Just a small detail, Madam Speaker, of tens of millions of people that would be legalized and granted amnesty in about a couple of decades period of time. That is the backdrop. That is the foundation of this. 
   I have a lot to say about this, but I also recognize the gentleman from Texas who has been on this floor for a while has some things he would like to say about it, and I would be very happy to yield to Judge Carter as much time as he may consume. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - March 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Texas. 
   As I listen to you talk about this, Judge, and you live down in that territory where it has been part of your life and the flow of our life, from my background in the work that I have done, there have been some times in my life when there was something that was so complicated, so convoluted and so unpredictable in its elements and so many hypotheticals that came out of each of those elements that no matter how hard I tried to chart a course through that and lay out contingency plans on, I call them if-then formulas which you can put on a spreadsheet, if then, we will do that; if that happens, then we will do this. And it threads through the whole equation. 
   This immigration issue is so complicated, so unpredictable and has so many hypotheticals that I contend that it is impossible for a body of 100 Senators or 435 House Members or a President to chart a course through that and be able to put law in place that deals with all of the contingencies and ends up with the kind of product that if we can even agree on what that is, we could not get there. It is beyond human ability to put that into a law  and make that work; too many hypotheticals. 
   So what I will submit is that we need to take this, as you suggested, one step at a time. I am for let's go ahead and get things under control at the border. Stop the bleeding. As Dr. Gingrey has often said from Georgia, we have got to stop the bleeding before we can decide how we are going to stabilize the patient and give him rehab. That is step one. And we started on that, as you said. I have been down to look at that. In fact, a couple weeks ago I went down there and helped build some wall with Secretary Chertoff down south of Yuma on the border. It occurred to me that probably the only person in America that actually has gone down on the southern border and put border fence up with Chris Simcox or the Minute Men, and then turned around and welded steel wall on the border was Secretary Chertoff. I don't think those two guys are going to get together and do this together. I had the privilege of doing it on different occasions with each of them. But we can control this at the border; in fact, we must. And if we can't do that, then all the rest of the policy we talk about goes for naught. 
   And another fundamental principle that I stand on is that of all the discussions that come out of the House and the Senate and the ideas about guest worker, or temporary worker, how we will give them a card, how that all might work; how you do background checks on people and then legalize them here, I don't hear anyone address what you do with those that don't come forward. Because those that come forward with a clean background record, they would then get their pass to either guest worker card or a path to citizenship, depending, they might feel pretty comfortable if all they did is come into the country illegally and that this government should write up a law, which I would oppose, that would be amnesty, too. But those that have a criminal record beyond that, those that have run afoul of the law for whatever reason, they are not coming out of the shadows because they don't want the hook of the law in them, they don't want to go off to prison and they don't want to be deported. 
   So we will not be uncovering the bad elements of society by trying to do background checks on people. And those elements of society, those slackers that don't want to come forward for whatever reason, those that have reasons not to come forward, they still remain in the shadows an illegal core in this civilization, and the only way you get them out is to actually send people back home again. 
   So I submit that we should use all of our local law enforcement. We should end all sanctuary policies. The local police force, county sheriffs, the highway patrol, the Texas Rangers, all those folks that are involved in law enforcement at all levels, and have them cooperating at all levels. 
   I grew up in a law enforcement family. And it was not something that we could have conceived of, but there would be a city police officer that would be prohibited from cooperating with a Federal officer on a law in this Nation because it happened to be Federal law as opposed to a city ordinance. So by that rationale, city police would only enforce city ordinances and State highway patrol and State officers, DCI or whatever, could only enforce State laws and then Federal officers could only enforce Federal laws. And I don't know what the county sheriffs are going to do except maybe they are just going to serve warrants and papers. 
   So we need to cooperate on all levels and we need to reestablish the rule of law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - March 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Texas. 
   And I know that there are some people in this Congress and across the country that will say, well, what about two sticks and no carrots. We may hear about that from the gentleman from Virginia, Mr. Goode, who I would be happy to yield as much time as he may consume. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - March 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Virginia for a clear message. 
   The American people appreciate straight-talking, clear messages. There have been far too many of these messages that are muddled and confusing, and those muddled and confusing messages cause more problems with more people coming across the border. And I am not hearing people stand up and say it would be wonderful if everybody could wake up in their own country one day in a legal fashion and not have to look over their shoulder and rebuild their own nation, rebuild their own society, rebuild their own economy. 
   I had this conversation with the ambassador to the United States from Mexico. And I say, If you encourage your people, the vitality of your nation, to come here to the United States, who is going to be there to reform Mexico? Who is going to be there to rebuild Mexico? And he had to concede that is no way to run a country. 
   At this point, Madam Speaker, I would be very happy to yield to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Jordan). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - March 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Jordan). 
   I did appreciate the privilege to travel with you. And there is some extra value in that, and that is you see what it is that people notice and you understand what their priorities are and you begin to understand how people rearrange their priorities and the basic values that come together. And you have heard some of these basic values flow out from Mr. Jordan here this evening, Madam Speaker. And I look forward to a lot more of these kinds of events in helping to shape policy for the American people. 
   I look at this overall immigration policy that we have, and I think there are some great big blanks out there and questions that are asked and not answered, seldom asked and never answered. The first question that one should ask is, Is there such a thing as too much illegal immigration? Or let me put it this way: Is there such a thing as too much immigration? And if the answer to that is ``yes,'' then you need to divide that between legal and illegal. And for me illegal immigration, any of it, is too much. All immigration should be legal. We shouldn't tolerate illegal immigration, and we surely should not reward it with an amnesty plan, which I believe is being worked on right now in the offices over in the Senate and perhaps on the House side, preparing to reach that kind of an agreement between the House and the Senate and the White House to quickly bring a bill that we don't have time to scrutinize and time to debate thoroughly. 
   If you look at what happened last year, there was mistake after mistake after mistake made in the Senate's version of the bill. And first they had a bill on the floor that would have legalized between 100 and 200 million people. And then there was, I believe, a Bingaman amendment that reduced it and put a cap on one or two of those categories that took that number down under 100 million. Different numbers came back and forth. The Senators voting on that didn't know how many numbers they were talking about. You could ask them point blank, and they would not answer. But the best numbers, the most reliable numbers came from Robert Rector of the Heritage Foundation, and the numbers that I saw there near the end of that debate were 66 million people that would be brought into the United States under the policies that exist and the ones that the Senate would have added in their reform bill that they passed last year. A lot of that same sentiment; 66 million people, Madam Speaker. 
   And so I went back and looked, and I wondered how many people were naturalized into the United States legally in all of our history. And it turns out that we began keeping records in 1820. Not at the beginning, but in the 1820s. The numbers were small prior to that. They were small in 1820. And we tracked this thing up until the census of the year 2000. So between 1820 and the year 2000, the complete totals that we have, the number is 66.1 million people have been naturalized into the United States in all of our history. And this Senate version of the bill last year would have matched the pot all in one fell swoop. And they did this all with a straight face, Madam Speaker. 
   I recall the amnesty in 1986 that Reagan signed, and it was supposed to be 1 million people. I was appalled that 1 million people would get a pass on the rule of law. Well, I was triplely appalled when I realized how bad it was because that 1 million turned into more than 3 million by most accounts because, first of all, they underestimated how many people would apply. Secondly, they underestimated how persuasive the fraud would be with people that raced across the border and jumped in line so they could get their amnesty. 
   I have met some of the people that received amnesty in 1986, and they are almost universally in favor of amnesty in 2007. And the reason is because they were a beneficiary of amnesty. When they had amnesty, it was good for them; so, of course, they advocate that for anyone else. Certainly their children were taught: amnesty was the best thing that ever happened to you, sons and daughters of mine, and we need to make sure that everyone else can take advantage of this same thing. 
   But amnesty comes with a price, and the price is you sacrifice the rule of law if you grant amnesty. 
   So the 3 million that received amnesty in 1986 became great advocates for more amnesty. And then each generation after that, more people have come into the country, that 3 million, and today the most conservative number of illegal immigrants in the United States is about 12 million. Many of us believe that number exceeds 20 million. Some believe it exceeds 30 million. I am in that above-20 million category, and it is anybody's guess up in that territory. But if there is an amnesty bill that comes out of the Senate and through the House and to the White House, then you are going to see tens of millions of people that take advantage of this, and we will be sacrificing, Madam Speaker, the rule of law. 
   And I have talked about why would we do this, what would be the purpose for this kind of a policy. Well, first of all, the Federal Government has failed to enforce adequately our immigration laws. And as we got more and more illegal immigrants into the United States, it became a magnet for more and more to follow. They began to recruit in their communities. We had companies that put up billboards in Mexico encouraging people there to illegally come to the United States and apply for a job. Some of them recruited them down there and brought them across the border to go to work in their factories and in their plants. And this is commonly known in the communities that utilize this kind of labor. So what kind of a Nation would do that and why would we? First of all, the Federal Government didn't enforce the law. 
   Secondly, employers took advantage of that because they could hire illegal labor cheaper than they could local labor. And capital is always rational. Capital is going to do the smart thing. Capital is going to follow the path of least resistance like electricity. So there wasn't a resistance on the law enforcement side; so capital then hired illegal labor, brought them into the United States or hired them when they came here. Regardless, that was the magnet.     
   They understood that they could pay illegal labor less and there were far fewer contingent liabilities that went along with the illegal labor. 
   So if you have to pay $15 an hour as a going rate for an American citizen or someone who is lawfully present in the  United States to do a job, but you can hire someone who is here illegally because they are in the shadows and have to scurry around and hide away from the law, if you can hire them for, let's say, $8 an hour, and then if you have to provide health insurance, retirement benefits and take on the contingent liabilities of legal employees, the $15 an hour, plus the health insurance package, plus the retirement package, plus the worker's comp piece, which is going to be higher because they are more likely to file the claims, plus the litigation risk of filing a suit against an employer, and then the unemployment claims that would come if you lay people off, none of that exists in any significant quantity when you are hiring someone who is illegal. 
   So you hire them cheaper, maybe at $8 an hour, compared to a $15 an hour legal person, but then that is all you are really ending up with, was 8 bucks an hour. But if you hire somebody at $15 an hour and they are legal, then you have to add on to that so much for health insurance, so much for retirement benefits, so much for worker's comp, so much for unemployment, so much for contingent liabilities. What if this employee turns around and sues me for something? You add that all up, it is far cheaper to hire the illegal laborer than the legal. Then that magnetized and brought more and more into this country. 
   Americans have allowed it to happen under their nose. The administration hasn't sounded the alarm. They could seal the border more quickly than they are, and they are accelerating their efforts here, and I want to compliment them for that effort. But I am also watching closely to see if this effort is a real, sincere committed effort, or if it is an effort that is designed to help clear the political groundwork so that Members of Congress will be lulled to sleep, so-to-speak, and adopt a comprehensive plan, which again the word ``comprehensive'' is the substitute word for amnesty plan. 
   So do we do this because we need the labor, is one of those questions. The statement is made over and over again, well, we have to have the labor. After all, we have willing employers and willing employees. That should be the standard. 
   Madam Speaker, if you can give me cheap enough labor, I want to hire them all. If you can get me reliable workers, I want the first 100 at a buck an hour I can get. I probably want the first hundred at $2 or $3 an hour, or in fact $5 an hour. We will find a way to make some money. I want them legal. They have to be for me. 
   My point is though the cheaper labor gets, the more demand there is. Kind of like if gas goes down to 50 cents, people are going to drive more, or if porterhouse steaks go down to 50 cents a pound, a lot more people are going to eat the fancy steak instead of eating the hamburger. Cheap labor, the same thing; the lower the price, the more consumption there is. 
   So it isn't an equation of willing employer-willing employee, because the employer is always going to be willing if he can make money off of a willing employee who will work cheaper than the going rate. It is an advantage for the employer to do that. 
   I hear from Member after Member, think tank head after think tank head, they get on the media airwaves every day, Madam Speaker, and they say a willing employer, a willing employee. We have people that need this labor. There is a demand for it. Therefore, we have to find a way to provide it. Otherwise, what happens in America if we don't flood the cheap labor market? 
   Well, one thing that has happened from flooding it is we have seen the unskilled purchasing power drop by 12 percent over the last 10 years, that is because there is a flood of cheap labor on the market. And it should go the other way. We want a broad middle-class. We want an ever more prosperous middle-class. Instead, the pressure that is coming here is those that are making money off of the cheap labor are becoming an aristocracy. They are part of nouveau rich in the United States of America. And our upper-middle class, or upper class, for that matter, is growing, and so is our lower class growing, because we are importing it, and that is putting a squeeze on middle America. 
   One of the principles of a free society is you need to have a broad and prosperous middle-class. We have been growing and broadening that middle-class for generations and becoming a stronger Nation because of it. But this last generation it is going the other way, Madam Speaker. This last generation, we are growing the aristocracy and we are growing the lower class, importing a lower class, all at the expense of the middle class, which is being squeezed in between the two. 
   But in the middle is the real America. In the middle is the real America that understands truth, justice, the American way, the merits of hard work, the American dream. They have a tremendous work ethic, a sense of family and community. They are being squeezed, Madam Speaker, by the interests on the upper levels of our society and by the thunderous herds that are coming across particularly our southern border, on the lower end of our society, at the expense of our middle-class. 
   I would point out that if you envision this society like a barbell, and the middle-class would be the bar, and the weights on each end would be the bells, on one side you have the weight on the right side of that barbell, that is the business interests in America. A lot of them are Republican interests, but certainly not all of them. There are a lot of liberal elitists that sit in that category too. And they are clamoring for more cheap labor because they make money doing it, and they are not threatened, nor do they believe their children will ever be threatened by the competition in the labor market that takes place down in the lower end of the spectrum. 
   The people on the right side of that, the business side of that barbell, that interest, they will send their children to Ivy League schools, upper crust universities, they will get an education. They won't ever have to compete, probably, with the lower income people that don't have that kind of education, that kind of culture, that gives them a path to professionalism. 
   So they will end up living in their ivory towers and end up living in their gated communities and getting rich off the cheaper labor, and their children will be wired into that same kind of thing. And that is how you grow an aristocracy. That is how you grow a ruling class. That is how you grow an arrogance, that they have a birthright to a servant class, which they are creating. 
   That servant class that they are creating is the other end of this barbell, and that is this massive number of people who give especially the left a lot of political power. Even those who are in this country illegally give political power to many Members here in this Congress because we count people rather than citizens when he with redistrict in America. 
   As we count people, that means we count illegal immigrant in these districts. So illegal immigrants give political power to the Members of Congress who are here because they don't have to get their vote. They only 
   have to compete. 
   There will be a couple of seats here in the House of Representatives, where it will take about 110,000 votes for me to get reelected to my seat, there are a couple of seats that take around 30,000, 35,000 votes for the same thing, and the reason is because the illegal population is counted in the census, and the larger that number is, the fewer citizens are left to actually cast a ballot. And that is the circumstance. 
   So think of this barbell. On the one side is the ruling class, on the other side of the barbell, the political power of the lower class, the new servant class that is being created, and in the middle, the bar itself is the middle-class that holds it altogether that is being squeezed by the two. That is what we are up against, Madam Speaker. 
   So, do we need this labor? I would point out that if it is 12 million in the United States illegally, according to I believe it was a Pew Foundation study, that the illegal labor amounted out of that 12 million, 6.9 million workers are actually working. They don't all work, of course. Some are homemakers, some are too young. But 6.9 million working illegals in America. 
   Of that 6.9 million, that represents 4.7 percent of the overall workforce, and 2.2 percent of the actual production, because they are unskilled, they don't produce like a more highly trained worker does. So they are only doing 2.2 percent of the work.  
   Well, if you opened up your factory doors in the morning and you found out that 2.2 percent of your production, your work force, wasn't going to show up that day, in order to make up for the difference, I would send a memo out to my staff that said, you know, your 15-minute coffee break this morning and your 15-minute coffee break this afternoon, I am going to shorten that to 10 minutes. 
   If you do that, if you cut your two coffee breaks, morning and afternoon, by 5 minutes each, you will have picked up 2.1 percent of the production, almost the same thing that the illegal labor represents. Ten minutes a day out of an 8 hour shift of America, that is how much we would be missing. Yet I hear Chicken Little, oh, we can't get along without this labor. We must have it. If we don't have it, the economy will collapse. 
   It will not collapse, Madam Speaker. We can adapt to it easily. We have taken years to get here, at least 20 years to evolve into this circumstance that we are today, and we can evolve away from that, away from the dependency, away from this addiction, away from this methadone of illegal labor that we have in America, and it will not be that hard to do. 
   Also there are 6.9 million working illegals in America, but then the argument is, well, but we have unemployment at essentially record low rates of 4.6 percent. Well, that is nice. That is effectively a very low unemployment rate. It is not the lowest. It is not record low unemployment. In World War II, we had a 1.3 percent unemployment rate then. 
   But it is about 4.6, and they will say you can't get enough workers out of the unemployment rolls to fill the gap we need for this labor. Well, maybe you can't, and probably in fact I will say certainly you can't. 
   I will say also going into the welfare rolls, we couldn't hire all of them. Many of them would not be employable. If we could hire half of them and if we could hire half of those on unemployment, we still wouldn't put a very significant dent in that 6.9 million labor force. 
   But I can tell you, Madam Speaker, that going to look at the Department of Labor statistics, it shows an entirely different story. If you were going to place a factory in a location, you wouldn't simply look at the unemployment rate in that location and determine how many people there were to hire. You would hire a consulting company, and that company would go in and survey the area and determine the available labor force that was in the area. This is a standard known practice in all business and industry. The consulting firm would identify the available labor. 
   I went into the Department of Labor Statistics to determine the available labor supply in America, and I began to add up the different categories of age groups. 16 to 19 year olds, we have 9.3 million non-working 16 to 19 year olds in America. Now, not even part-time. Some of these are part-time jobs. And so I start there, because that is where young people learn their work ethic. 
   As I add up these age categories from 16 on up to 19, and then from 20 to 24 and the list goes on up the line, and I got to 65 and I had to make a decision, and I looked around and concluded that Wal-Mart hires up to 74 years old, so I added them all up to that. One of the reasons I am going to confess, Madam Speaker, is because it was a convenient number I could memorize. It is not substantially changed if you lower the number down to 65. 
   But it works like this: 6.9 million working illegal laborers in America could be replaced by hiring one out of ten of the 69 million workers in America who are simply not in the workforce. 
   What Nation would ignore 69 million people not in the workforce and go and bring people in from another country? That would be like having a lifeboat with that percentage of people on it, and deciding you needed some more people to pull on the oars, and having all of those people up there in steerage riding along, and no, it wouldn't occur to us to go up and say come on down here and grab ahold of that oar. Why don't we pull off on an island and see if we can't recruit some more people, load them in the lifeboat, and maybe 7 out of 12 of them will row. That is what it amounts to, Madam Speaker. 
   So we have not been very objective in this. There is also a tremendous amount of crime, and the victims of that crime, it has been a tremendous price paid here in the United States. We talk about it very little, but every day there are American citizens that die violently at the hands of criminal aliens who are in this country and who, if we had enforced the laws, with not be here. 
   I had a gentleman say to me today, there isn't a shred of evidence that illegal immigrants commit crimes at any greater rate than average Americans do. But the truth is, Madam Speaker, there is a tremendous amount of evidence that they do. 
   In fact, the numbers work out to be that in the United States, the violent death rate is 4.28 per 100,000 annually. In Mexico, it is 13.2 per 100,000. That is a solid three-plus times greater violent death rate in Mexico. And Mexico is the most peaceful nation south of our border that I can identify. Honduras has nine times the violent death rate. El Salvador's is not published, but we know it is very high. If you go to Colombia, their violent death rate compared to the United States is 15.4 times higher. 
   So if you bring people from that society, of course they are going to commit more crimes. They are committed in their home country. They bring that culture with them. Also, $65 billion worth of illegal drugs pour across that southern border every year, brought in by these elements. 
   I am not here to say that they are all bad people. No, the vast majority of them are very good people looking for a better life for their families. But they have a higher percentage of violence among them, even as good people, than the average American that is here, and we are paying a price of about 12 Americans a day who lose their life as victims of murder to criminal aliens, about 13 a day who die at the hands of negligent homicide, mostly the victims of drunk drivers, not the drunks themselves.     
   That is the magnitude of this, Madam Speaker. And I recognize by the clock I am in a position where I need to say thank you for the privilege of addressing you on the floor of the House of Representatives 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, this amendment would reduce the Chief of Staff account in the Office of the Secretary and Executive Management to the fiscal year 2007 level. It represents a $79,000 reduction, and it would go from $2.639 million to $2.56 million. 
   The bill's current funding level is a 3 percent increase over fiscal year 2007 as enacted. There has been at least $105.5 billion in new Federal spending authorized by the House Democrat leadership this year. The current Federal debt is $8.8 trillion, roughly $29,000 for every U.S. citizen.     
   And it grows by over $1 billion a day. Entitlement spending, being Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, is out of control and within a generation will force either significant cutbacks in services or benefits or massive tax increases. 
   The Congressional Budget Office and the Government Accountability Office have been warning Congress that the growth in direct spending, and that is spending that's on autopilot outside the annual spending process, is occurring at an unsustainable rate due to well-known demographic trends and other factors. Discretionary spending has also grown exponentially and must be brought under control. 
   This amendment is the first step of many necessary steps in forcing fiscal discipline and sanity upon the Federal Government and out-of-control Federal spending. We must restore fiscal discipline and find both commonsense and innovative new ways to do so, and we need to find ways to do more with less. 
   I have often speculated as to how this Congress would react if we brought a budget down here and presented a budget that would actually be a balanced budget without increasing taxes. We were on a trajectory to do that. And many of the things that have happened so far here in this 110th Congress have reversed that opportunity that we've had and made it far more difficult for us to be able to get to the point where we can balance this budget again. 
   Most of us will look back and remember that at the time of the beginning of this current administration, we were caught in a real flux, we had a dot-com bubble that was an unexpected growth in our economy. It brought in Federal revenues that surpassed the anticipated revenue stream and actually surpassed the ability of Congress to react to increasing spending with the Federal revenue increase. So, when the bubble burst, it slowed down our revenue, and at the same time, since we hadn't anticipated the increase, we ended up with some surplus in this budget, and we paid down some debt. 
   That was a good thing, and I would hope we could find a way to get back to that good thing, but the good thing didn't last very long because, at the same time we had the bursting of the dot-com bubble, we also had things we knew about that had to do with some corporate corruption. That was difficult on our economy and our adjustments. And nearly the same time, and from a national historical perspective it was the same time, we had the September 11 attacks, which in the end generated the very subject matter that is the appropriations of the Department that this bill appropriates. All of those things added together turned this increase or spending and slowed down our revenue increase. Now we've seen the growth in this economy. We have seen unprecedented growth in our Dow, for example. And we have a strong economy that surpassed my anticipation. It went beyond my optimism and exceeded that, Mr. Chairman. 
   So, what I would submit is that this Congress needs to have the discipline every step of the way, wherever we have the opportunity discretionarily, to take us back down to the level where we can one day come to this floor, Democrats and Republicans, and offer a balanced budget and then talk about how we spend that money within that balanced budget without increasing taxes. That's the key, and that's the thrust, and that's the message, Mr. Chairman, that I bring with this amendment that simply reduces the COS office by $79,000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (JAMES A. LEACH FEDERAL BUILDING -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Missouri for yielding. And I thank the gentleman from Iowa for bringing this resolution to honor our good friend and colleague. 
   And we are proud, as Iowans, to stand here today and ask for support for this resolution to name the building in Davenport the James A. Leach Courthouse. 
   I look back on his career, what a stellar career. All of these years, elected to Congress in 1976, served till the end of the 109th Congress, a couple of days into this year, actually. 
   And one of the things that stands out with Jim Leach is Jim Leach was a champion. He was a champion in 1960 as a State wrestling champion, and I'd point out to our wrestling champions here in this Congress, a State wrestling champion in Iowa is like being a national champion someplace else, just to set humility aside for the moment. 
   But that is a characteristic that Jim Leach had, the characteristic of real humility and the characteristic of a champion. 
   And as he came here to Congress and he began that long tenure that was here, he touched a lot of different issues. But his history and his experience in the financial industry was unparalleled in the contemporary Congress. And I know of no period in previous history when there's been someone that's been so respected, that has taken such leadership in the financial affairs. 
   And as chairman of the Finance Committee, and then later on as chairman of the Subcommittee on International Relations, Jim Leach was a leader that was respected on both sides. He was, some would call him a bipartisan legislator. I would say Jim Leach was a nonpartisan Member of this Congress. He evaluated each one of those issues that came before him, drew an independent judgment. 
   And if you might question his independence, I'll also make a concession on Congressman Leach in that he didn't always have every bit of his hair in place and he led sometimes with a sweater underneath his jacket, and it was only picked up by Senator Grassley as a stylish tip. But that's because Jim Leach followed his own mission, his own conscience, his own intellect and, in fact, he used his time to focus on those issues that were the good things for Americans, good things for Iowans. 
   So I'm proud today to stand in support of this resolution and proud to be able to call Jim Leach a colleague and a friend in the opposite order. It's with great admiration I ask support for this resolution of this Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - March 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I rise to express my support for Mr. RYAN's budget alternative. While I maintain that we could have done a better job balancing the budget in a shorter timeframe, it is a good first step in tackling runaway entitlement spending. 
   This debate is more that just a debate about numbers. It is a debate about who we are as Americans, what we believe and hold sacred, and what we want the future to hold for our children. It is also about how Congress spends hard working taxpayer's dollars. 
   Democrats and Republicans differ philosophically on these issues. John Locke, who inspired our Founding Fathers, wrote that one of the ends of political society is the preservation of one's property. 
   The Democrat budget violates this principle by redistributing your hard earned tax dollars to their favorite projects. They spend at a deficit rate, running up your national credit card, and the taxpayers end up getting the bill. 
   The big spending Pelosi budget maintains that more government is better government. In fact, if the Pelosi budget were a McDonald's combo meal, the Democrats would be saying--Super size me! And they are sticking you with the bill for their lunch. To protect taxpayers we need self-control and moderation. The Pelosi budget does nothing to curb the appetite for bigger government or trim Federal spending. True courage is taking a tough stand and choosing to cut spending. 
   I believe in limited government, not a government without limits on runaway spending and high taxes. I believe increased taxation chips away at our freedom to spend or save our own money. 
   As a small businessman who built his business from the ground up, I know that it is individuals who put their hard work and innovation to the test--not government. 
   I believe that the best way to balance the budget is to control spending--not to raise taxes. This Pelosi budget marks the largest tax increase in American history--raising taxes on the hard working American taxpayer by $400 billion. Each of my constituents in Iowa will have to pay an additional $2,777.00 annually in taxes. 
   One in five Americans has little to no personal property or savings. Additional taxation hurts American families who are trying to save for their retirement and children's education, to purchase a home, or to purchase a car. The Pelosi budget eliminates the 10 percent bracket that helps millions of low-income workers. Raising taxes on capital gains and dividends discourages investment and savings. Families will suffer from the Pelosi budget slashing the child tax credit in half and reinstating the marriage penalty. 
   We are told that when we die that ``you can't take it with you.'' This is true, but we all hope that we can pass on our nest eggs to our children without penalty. The Pelosi budget allows the elimination of the death tax in 2010 to expire. 
   We must keep American business competitive in the face of economic pressure from countries like China and India. Democrats, especially the gentlelady from Northwestern Ohio, like to keep a corporate casualty list of jobs lost, in the United States. They mention Hershey, Hoover, Stanley, Champion, Ford, Chrysler, Huffy, Zebco, Levis and Maytag, as companies who have shipped thousands of U.S. jobs to other countries. Some of these companies could no longer compete globally and were eventually bought out or shut down. 
   The Pelosi budget will accelerate this process and will burden American businesses, which employ and create new jobs for American workers. It will usher in the largest tax hike in history. It will raise taxes on our small businesses and the manufacturers making it that much harder for them to compete in the world economy. Our businesses already pay the second highest tax rates in the entire world. 
   Mr. Chairman, I implore my colleagues to stop this runaway spending, financed by a massive tax hike on American taxpayers. Let us turn around the ship and head for dry land. This Pelosi budget is a sinking ship, full of spending loopholes and budget gimmicks. I have no problem with Captain PELOSI going down with the ship--just do not take America down in the process.  
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. All time for debate on the amendment has expired. 
   The question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Woolsey). 
   The question was taken; and the Acting Chairman announced that the noes appeared to have it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (COMPREHENSIVE AMERICAN ENERGY SECURITY AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from New Mexico for yielding. 
   The Strategic Petroleum Reserve, I think it's named exactly what it is. Why, at a time when we have hurricanes that have hit the gulf coast, that's a time we might want to have to tap into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. When we've got Putin sitting over in Georgia, Ahmadinejad threatening to close the Straits of Hormuz and we're opening up the Strategic Petroleum Reserve for what, for political strategy? Not for strategy for the security of the United States of America. That defies logic, I would say. 
   And to swap out sweet Texas crude for heavy Venezuelan oil at the same time also defies logic to track this. Why would anybody come to the floor and defend opening up the Strategic Petroleum Reserve? 
   But, Mr. Speaker, I came here to address this overall energy piece. And first, I'm for all-American energy all the time. I want to open up all of it. And I'm also for an open process, not for a 290-page bill that hit the presses last night at 10 o'clock and the Rules Committee at 10:45. How in the world could they evaluate it? And furthermore, what's the purpose of this constitutional process if there is no subcommittee, no committee, no amendments allowed anywhere along the line, amendments denied at the Rules Committee as well, a closed process--yes, an open debate for 3 hours, but not a process that allows perfection? 
   So it seems to me that we've handed the entire authority of the United States Congress over to the Speaker from San Francisco, who writes a policy, 290 pages, that doesn't do anything for us. 
   And I would add, Mr. Speaker, that even the Outer Continental Shelf, if we do nothing, it opens up. If this bill passes and becomes law, then it blocks out the first 50 miles, and litigation blocks that out and all of the rest. 
   I have here a copy of the Federal Code. This is the legislation that ended litigation on the North Slope of Alaska in 1973. That's what it took. No one got through the environmental litigation; it was an act of Congress. If we don't have an act of Congress, we're not going to get through this litigation, and all of our energy is going to be locked up, Mr. Speaker. 
   So this bill does nothing for corn ethanol, coal, ANWR, nuclear, the first 50 miles, oil shale, natural gas, hydroelectric, or the litigation that's blocking it.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ARTS REQUIRE TIMELY SERVICE (ARTS) ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank Mr. Smith, the ranking member of the Judiciary Committee, and the chairman for his graciousness. 
   I appreciate the privilege to address this issue under these circumstances. And I make no pledge about taking advantage of the situation, but I will stay with the attitude and the comity that the chairman demonstrates always, and that is that I come to the floor here to rise in opposition to this bill. 
   First I want to explain that premium processing is in the event that the normal application for the visa isn't processed in time, then the performing arts organization, which is a 501(c) nonprofit organization, can then apply. If they want to pay $1,000 premium to turn that around quickly, they can do that today. 
   So, I'm looking at this thing from the perspective of this is a fee-based system that we have. We fund USCIS through fee-based, and we had hearings in the committee and we brought that forward and it's clear. So, it becomes a zero sum game. If you decide that you're going to provide a premium processing service for one organization, that means the burden of the cost of that gets distributed across all the other applicants. 
   So, I'm stuck with this image of, let me just say the Metropolitan Museum of Art. I'm very convinced, and have not been there, that people arrive there in limousines wearing tuxedos and formal gowns, and at the same time, I know that they have a foundation that is quite significant. For example, assets of $2,424,000,000 in the foundation, an annual revenue stream of $326 million. Now, out of $326 million in annual revenue or $2.4 billion in the foundation, it seems to me that those kind of very wealthy, not-for-profit wealthy organizations could come up with the extra thousand dollars, particularly because people are arriving in tuxedos and getting out of limousines at the expense of the poor person who is in blue jeans and sneakers. And that's my argument here. 
   I yield to the chairman. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ARTS REQUIRE TIMELY SERVICE (ARTS) ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time, I would submit that the wealthy foundations have the revenue to be able to provide for the premium processing in the event that they didn't plan far enough ahead to get their application in on time. I would think those with the highest wealth should be the ones that have the most ability to plan ahead or to pay if they fail to plan ahead. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ARTS REQUIRE TIMELY SERVICE (ARTS) ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the chairman and I appreciate his remarks. And there is probably some basis for him to make that argument. 
   Just to close this argument, I will argue first that I offered a series of amendments which Mr. Smith addressed, and I exempted those foundations with less than $1 million in annual revenues. Then I went up the line to $10 million and then $50 million. I was trying to find that place by which it would get to somebody's conscience on the Judiciary Committee or in this Congress that we should say, you have enough money to manage this yourself. We never found that plateau. I actually wrote one that would have been a googolplex, kind of an unlimited number, but I'm confident it would have been rejected as well. 
   So, I would just submit that the one organization that I've singled out here, Metropolitan Museum of Art, would have revenue in the 5 minutes we've discussed this to be able to pay for the premium processing of a single artist and accumulate in that hour about enough for 14 artists. 
   So, I think we should have drawn the line at taking care of our small foundations, and for that reason I am opposing this bring. And I appreciate the sentiment that brings it to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3074, TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, unfortunately I was detained due to official Congressional business. Had I been present, I would have voted ``yea'' on the following rollcall votes: ``yea'' on H.R. 404--Federal Customer Service Enhancement Act; ``yea'' on H. Res. 553--Mourning the passing of former First Lady, Lady Bird Johnson, and celebrating her life and contributions to the people of the United States; ``yea'' on H. Res. 519--Honoring the life and accomplishments of renowned artist Tom Lea on the 100th anniversary of his birth. 
   Additionally, had I been present, I would have voted ``nay'' on the following rollcall votes: ``nay'' on the Previous Question--H. Res. 558 for H.R. 3074; ``nay'' on H. Res. 558, the Rule for H.R. 3074--Departments of Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2008.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA AND THE PRESIDENT'S AGENDA ON IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - January 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the privilege to address you and of course all the Members here on this floor of the United States Congress. I would point out here in the beginning that it is about 8:15 here this evening, and the President will be giving his major address on Iraq at about 9:01 and so I intend to be asking for an adjournment just right before 9:00 so there is an opportunity to do that transition and that the President does have an opportunity to use this channel to speak to the American people. 
   To begin this presentation this evening, and we listened to the members on the other side of the aisle talk about supporting the 100-hour agenda, Mr. Speaker, I point out that this 100-hour agenda was a number just kind of picked out of the air or off the wall and it turned into a promise. And inside of that promise of 100 hours and to accomplish these five or six things within 100 hours are a whole series of other promises, and it appears as though the most important promise of all is we are going to do all this in 100 hours. The 100-hour promise. And not the promise for bipartisanship and not the promise for the most open Congress in history, and probably not the promise for the most ethical Congress in history. The jury is still out on that, Mr. Speaker, but this thing that preempts all, that trumps all is this idea of 100 hours. 
   Well, 100 hours to the American people might mean at midnight on December 31 when the ball dropped and hit the bottom in Times Square, the clock might start to tick on the 100 hours here in 2007, the new 110th Congress. But I don't take that position necessarily, Mr. Speaker. I take the position that when we gaveled in and went to work here, if you want to count 100 hours, that is fine; if you want to make a promise to get something done in 100 hours, that is also fine. But that 100 hours didn't start for the first week. It didn't start for the first week because we were voting on things other than the six things on the agenda to be accomplished in the 100 hours. 
   And so then the promise that it was going to be bipartisan and an open process, we found out, I guess after Congress began, this 110th Congress, that this open process couldn't be opened up until the 100 hours were over, or otherwise they couldn't get everything accomplished in the first 100 hours. So bipartisanship went out the window a victim of the 100-hour promise, and so did the open kind of a system. The bills didn't go through subcommittee. They didn't go through committee. They didn't go through rules. No amendments are allowed. And yet that was all decided before the 100-hour clock began. 
   So we set up a clock, a legitimate clock, one that actually keeps the time here that Congress is in session. From when we gaveled in this 110th Congress, we gavel in the morning, open with a prayer and the pledge, and we gavel out in the evening. That clock has got a tick on that. We are paying people here to work around this Capitol the whole time the 100 hours is moving. 
   So I set up this clock so the American people can keep track of what the hours are, and I point out this: When we started this morning, we were at 31 hours that ticked away since. And these are just business hours. It is not a stretch; it is not 24 hours a day. It is the hours that this floor is in operation. In fact, yesterday, it was scheduled to be at 10:00, so a lot of people made their plans to be here at 10:00. It didn't work on Monday because of the football game. And I will just reserve my opinion of that tonight, Mr. Speaker. But the 10:00 time to start got moved back to 10:30, got moved back to noon and then got moved back to first votes at 5:30 yesterday afternoon. So some of that is not taken into account here, but as of about now, this 100 hours has clicked up to 42 hours, Mr. Speaker, have ticked away. And there have been a couple of things that have been passed, and some will claim that to be an accomplishment. And I don't intend to take up that issue either tonight, Mr. Speaker. But I would point out to the American people that we are at 42 hours and counting. 
   If you can't count time, you also can't count dollars or people. And it is important to understand the cost to the United States of America and the taxpayers that fund it. And we will be doing some of these tallies after hours tonight to come back with some better numbers tomorrow, and I will bring this chart then to the floor every day until the 100 hours ticks over, and we can make this 100-hour promise something that goes into the dust bin of history. 
   But this 100-hour promise has trumped the other promises. It has been more important than an open system of government. It has been more important than allowing anyone to offer a single amendment to any bill that has come forward here, and each one of those bills are going to change the destiny of America. Maybe a little bit, maybe a lot. But each one will change the destiny of America some. And the people I feel sorry for, all of those new freshmen Democrats, the ones that were elected to office having promised that they were going to represent their constituents here, they would have a voice, they would be effective. They bring with them the vitality of America. They bring the new ideas into this Congress, the fresh blood. The best responsiveness to constituents that you ever will see on average comes with the freshmen. We are glad when they come here every new Congress because it adds new vitality. 
   But that large crop of Democrat freshmen and that smaller crop of Republican freshmen I think have gotten their eyes opened up a little bit. I think they believed they would come here and they would be able to come to  a subcommittee and do a markup on a bill and offer an amendment to improve the bill and see it go over to full committee, offer an amendment, improve the bill and bring it to the floor, where amendments would be offered and the bill would be improved and perhaps perfected and passed out of this Chamber, on over the Senate, where we would have negotiations working with them and they would have done the same thing. 
   The sad news for those freshmen is that they don't have a voice in this process. Not a single freshman had an opportunity to offer amendment to engage in debate in a subcommittee, to engage in debate in a committee; didn't have an opportunity to go before the Rules Committee and make their argument as to why their amendments should be made in order. None of that was allowed to the freshmen. And, in fact, the small little group of people that put together this policy didn't consider the wisdom of Congress; they considered the wisdom of the people within that room, and I guarantee you, Mr. Speaker, that didn't include the freshmen, either the Democrats or the Republicans, who now have to reassess what kind of a system they thought they had gotten elected to. 
   And I hope this 100 hours ticks away, and I hope it can be put away into the dust bin of history, and I hope those other promises can be rejuvenated and brought back to life, those promises about having an open system, a system that is bipartisan and a system that allows for amendments so that we can improve the legislation that comes. 
   We are at 42 hours, Mr. Speaker, and the clock will start again. Actually, it will shut off when we adjourn here about 9:00 and it will take up again tomorrow morning when we gavel back in. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, I come here to talk about a big subject. It is a subject that has been consuming the thoughts and the prayers of the American people since September 11, 2001, and that subject is a subject the President will take up here in a little more than 35 minutes. It is the subject of this global war on terror, and primarily the battleground, the main battleground, which is Iraq, in this global war on terror. 
   I have certainly been involved in this since the beginning of the operations in Iraq. I have been over there four times. I have traveled into Afghanistan as well. Each time I go over there, I always stop at Landstuhl in Germany and visit our wounded troops there. And the last time I was over was over Thanksgiving, just a little over a month ago, when I ate Thanksgiving dinner with wounded troops in Landstuhl at the hospital in Germany, and that was the most meaningful Thanksgiving I have ever had in my life. I don't expect to ever top that for a moving Thanksgiving where one can really be in awe of true courage, true patriotism and true sacrifice. 
   And I believe we are going to hear a speech from the President in a few minutes from now that is going to be, I think the tone of it could have been written by those people that have sacrificed the most, our soldiers and Marines and airmen that have perhaps given a limb, perhaps been wounded and crippled for life. I have not yet met a wounded soldier who said to me, ``This is a lost cause.'' They believe in the cause. They want to get back to the fight. They want to get back to the people they feel responsible for, and they want to complete the mission. 
   The wounded troops will stand with the President in the speech he is about to give and the families of those who have given the ultimate sacrifice, the Gold Star families, the families that have traveled across America and been here in Washington, D.C., a number of times and were in my office a week before I went over to Iraq. Some of those Gold Star families, those that have lost a son or a daughter over in Iraq or Afghanistan, some of them have also traveled over to the Middle East, also traveled into Iraq and got to visit the Iraqi people. And one of the fathers who lost his son killed over there in Iraq said to me: ``We cannot pull out of there. It is different now. We are committed to that cause. Lives have been lost. The soil in Iraq is now sanctified with American blood. It is not so simple that we could just walk away. We cannot. We must stay. We must prevail. We made the commitment to go there; we are invested in it; we must prevail.'' 
   As I looked him in the eye, I know what kind of pain he has been through, that soaked in with me, Mr. Speaker. And so I traveled over there in the aftermath of their trip, and as I went alone this time, I didn't go with a congressional delegation, I just went alone, and I had an opportunity to sit down with General Abizaid and close the door and talk and ask questions and probe a line of reasoning and then take on another line of reasoning. I had the opportunity to do the same thing with General Casey, although staff was in the room for that one. I also sat down with General Corelli and did the same thing. I had two meetings with Ambassador Khalilzad. And then each time I walked into a mess hall, or I would just holler out, ``Is anybody here from Iowa?'' And invariably there would be Iowans there. And there is an instant connection between you and someone from your State. You know where they are from. You know what they believe in. You have an understanding about their background and where they come from. You know what sports teams they support, or at least you can find out quickly, and we have those little arguments, Mr. Speaker. But when I index the things that I hear from our top officers that are in the field and what I hear from the people on the ground, and as I talk to people through all ranks and travel across Iraq and also Afghanistan in this last trip, put back together a kind of strategy and come to a conclusion as to where we need to go and what we need to do. 
   And let's look at this thing, Mr. Speaker, from two broad perspectives. One of them is the idea that I am hearing over here on this side of the aisle, and this is not a new idea from the people on that side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker; they slipped language into the Department of Defense appropriations bill that would have by now prohibited all operations in Iraq. And that was Mr. Murtha's language that went in there that prohibited any basing rights negotiations in Iraq, which would have meant, had that language prevailed that when our agreement on any of our bases in Iraq had expired, we couldn't negotiate a new one. So, over time, we would have had to give up base after base after base until we had to pull our troops completely out of Iraq. 
   That is not a lot different than the amendment that came out of an appropriations bill on this floor, Mr. Speaker, back in 1975 when a large Democrat majority took over and decided that they would take us out of the operations in Vietnam, and they introduced legislation successfully that forbid a single dollar from being used to support the South Vietnamese military. Not a dollar that can go for a bullet, for food, for a helmet, for a pair of khaki uniforms, no air cover, and nothing could go on offshore in South Vietnam either. So they shut down their operations in South Vietnam. And the South Vietnamese had defended their own country for 3 years, but when their resources dried up, their military collapsed.     
   Some of those things are being maneuvered right now, and I can hear this come out of the debate on the other side of the aisle. 
   But here are the scenarios: One scenario is listen to the people over here, Mr. Speaker, who would say, well, let's unfund this operation. Let's bring our troops home now. Let's get out of there because it is sectarian strife and you can't resolve a civil war and it is just brother fighting against brother and why do we want to get involved in a family feud? All of that that substitutes for rationale. 
   But what they are really looking at is if they get their way, the reality in Iraq is different than their perception, I believe, and I would like to have them pay a little more attention, maybe go over there with a real intention to learn. 
   But a year ago in Iraq there was violence over most of the entire country scattered around. And the argument I heard from this side of the aisle over here was, well, let's get out of there right now, get the Americans out because, after all, they are the targets and Iraqis just want to have their own country. They object to Americans walking on their soil. So if we would leave, there would be nobody for them to shoot at, and then peace would  break out all over Iraq, and the government would take over, and everything would be peaceful and fine. That was their argument then. Well, it was flawed, of course. But there was violence over most of Iraq. 
   A year later, now, most of the violence is confined to Baghdad. Eighty percent of the violence is in the Baghdad area. So peace has broken out over most of Iraq. And if you talk to the soldiers that have been over there that are running missions and convoys and doing patrols, they will tell you that most of Iraq seems very, very normal, that you go down the street and off on the road and the Iraqi kids come out and wave and the Iraqi people are open and friendly. The men are open and friendly. The women are a little more shy and a little demure. That is their culture. But they travel where they want to go, and the only thing that makes them realize that there is a war is when an IED goes off. So we are getting there, and the Baghdad area is the area that needs to be controlled and pacified. The rest of the country is pretty good. 
   If we pulled out now or if we pulled out in the near future, the involvement and the interference that comes from Iran would be imposed on the Shiia section of Iraq, which is actually a little more than the southern area of Iraq, which has got most of the oil in it. It would be Baghdad and some of the areas to the north of there and all the way south down to Basra, into the hands of the influence of the Iranian Shiia, who are right now funding and training, equipping and arming terrorists in Iran and sending them into Iraq and supporting some of the militia personnel there like Muqtada al Sadr. 
   I happen to have his picture here. This fellow has been a nemesis for a long time. And I put the date down here. That was the date that I was sitting in a hotel in Kuwait City watching Al Jazeera TV. Muqtada al Sadr, the head of the Mahdi militia, came on Al Jazeera TV, and as I watched that he said in Arabic with the English crawler underneath: ``If we keep attacking Americans, they will leave Iraq the same way they left Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left Mogadishu.'' Muqtada al Sadr. 
   Now here he is being supported by the Iranians, funding his militia, helping to train his militia, and paying some of them to plant IEDs and attack Americans. Iran is conducting a proxy war against the United States from the sanctuary of their sovereign nation of Iran and sending in the munitions and the militia and the insurgents to attack Americans there, and this man is their surrogate, and he must go. 
   It is more complicated than the people on the other side of the aisle would say. They would argue that it is just Shiia and Sunni that are fighting each other. There are six to eight different factions fighting each other there. Sadr is one. The Badr Brigade is another. Al Qaeda is another. There are Sunni criminal groups that are fighting. There are other groups, the former Baathists, that are fighting. 
   You can add these pieces up, Mr. Speaker, but in the end it is more complicated than just simple sectarian strife. It is a power struggle, a power to provide security and safety within some areas of the community, the effort on the part of Muqtada al Sadr and others to drive some of the Sunnis out of Sunni sections of Baghdad so that they can have their internal hegemony within the city of Baghdad. 
   But this all happened because there was somewhat of a vacuum there and we didn't go in and take this man out when we needed to do that. And he has been to some degree protected by Prime Minister Maliki, who this afternoon made a statement that essentially puts Muqtada al Sadr on notice. He tells the Shiite militias to give up. 
   ``Prime Minister al-Maliki has told everyone that there will be no escape from attack,'' said a senior legislator who is close to Maliki. ``The government has told the Sadrists,'' Muqtada al Sadrists, `` `if we want to build a state, we have no other choice but to attack armed groups,' '' this being the armed groups, Mr. Speaker. 
   So I will say there are two main points that I want to hear the President address tonight, and one of them is militias must be taken on and taken out and they are getting an opportunity to surrender right now because Prime Minister Maliki has put them on notice. They must be taken on and taken out if they don't surrender. This is the lead that has got to go. 
   The second one is Iran must cease and desist from their proxy war against the United States from the sanctuary of the sovereign nation of Iran by sending in insurgents who are trained, equipped, funded, and armed by the Iranians. 
   And, by the way, IEDs that are being detonated that are blowing up Americans and killing Americans are being made in Iran and smuggled into Iraq. If we pull out of Iraq now without a successful safe country there, the result will be Iran will control the Shiia section of Iraq. They will control most of the oil in Iraq. They control the Straits of Hormuz now. They would control the outlet, the mouth of the Tigris and Euphrates River, the Umm Qasr ports, the export area for Iraq's oil. They would have a stranglehold on 40 percent of the world's oil, which is a death grip on the world economy. 
   They would be in a position to continue to enrich themselves, and their money chest would be pouring over. They could then accelerate their nuclear weapons development. They could either build more and build them faster or buy them where they could get them, perhaps from North Korea, and you would see Iran much more quickly become a dominant nuclear power with an ability not just to put a nuclear missile into Tel Aviv but the ability to do so into Western Europe and within just a few years the ability to do so clear into the United States of America with a death grip on the oil and the world, 40 percent of the oil, which controls the market, Mr. Speaker. 
   That is what we are looking at if we pull out of there. The stakes are too high, and that is why the President rejected, I will say politely ignored, the Iraq Study Group's recommendations. 
   But we should keep in mind, Mr. Speaker, that there 
   was a million dollar appropriation here that went to the United States Institute for Peace and out of that came the Iraq Study Group. Now, why, if we wanted to figure out how to win a war, would we go to the United States Institute for Peace and ask them to give us some advice? That makes about as much sense as going to the Syrians or going to the Iranians and saying, can you help us solve this problem? Why don't you give us some constructive recommendations? 
   It is not in their interest to give us constructive recommendations. It is in the interest of the Iranians and the Syrians to undermine our effort there so that they can get us out of the Middle East and they can impose their influence on Iraq, not the other way around. We will not get constructive advice from Iran or from Syria any more than we got advice on how to win a war from the Iraq Study Group because I believe that they thought that their charge was how do we get out of this? Let's figure out how to get out of this. Not how do we win? 
   But the President, to his credit, went to the Pentagon and said, I don't want to hear from you how we get out of Iraq. I want to see a strategy for victory. 
   I wish he had done that a couple years ago, but I am glad he did it now. I am looking forward to his speech; and, as I said, I will be sure we adjourn here before the President's speech that will happen right at 9 o'clock. 
   But, at this moment, I would very much like to yield to my friend from Tennessee, Mr. Zach Wamp. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA AND THE PRESIDENT'S AGENDA ON IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - January 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Tennessee for his commitment to this country and the passion that he brings to everything he does. I point out, that meeting in Africa, we arrived from different locations and almost by coincidence, by providence, we arrived at the same location to address the things we were concerned about in South Africa at the time. I also note that Mr. Wamp shows up to address these issues spontaneously on occasion. I very much appreciate your leadership, Zach. 
   As we sit here tonight, I will review some of the things that Mr. Wamp addressed. He listed a number of books that he recommended that we read.  Among them was the book ``While Europe Slept'' by Bruce Bawer, and that is, I think, one of the most profound reads I have ever gone through. It tells the story how the author has traveled from New York City into Holland to make his life there, and realized he could never become a Dutchman in Holland the same way you can become an American in the United States. So he moved to Norway to become a Norwegian and found out that although he could develop his language skills and understood the culture and history of Norway, he would never be a Norwegian because they don't have a system of assimilation that we have or at least had in the United States. 
   So he traveled throughout the countries in Europe and gathered anecdotes and data and studies and compiled an understanding of what is happening with the ethnic enclaves that have been created in Europe, those enclaves that are Muslim enclaves. 
   Our idea has been in this country to promote assimilation. Everybody can become an American. That, we have considered to be multiculturalism. But the multiculturalism in Europe is different. That is, let us create an ethnic enclave here, and look at us. We are no longer this blue-eyed, blond society, or whatever it happens to be in the Scandinavian north or whatever the complexion might be in some of the other areas in Europe. We now have multiculturalism by ethnic enclave, and the ethnic enclaves being primarily Muslim have not integrated into the rest of society, and they have brought more and more from their home country and grown their enclaves to the point where Bruce Bawer's analysis comes down to that skepticism that France will ever be French again within the next generation, and that the takeover that takes place without the assimilation by rejecting the host country's culture and importing the culture of the newly arriving immigrants transforms these countries and explains why you can see second generation British of Pakistani descent setting off bombs in the subways in London. 
   It explains that, and it shows what is happening to the culture in Europe because they have opened up their borders and not promoted assimilation. When it is done, Bruce Bawer's analysis comes down to the choice for Europe will be either one of two things: total capitulation or mass expulsion. That is what Europe is faced with, and I am not optimistic that Europe will recover and come back to being a partner for the free world again because the people that are in those countries that are slowly by birth rate taking over don't believe in the freedoms that we believe in, Mr. Speaker. They reject them. They reject Western civilization and our Christian culture. The reject the Judeo-Christian belief system. The wahabists that Mr. Wamp talked about, they believe they have an obligation or at least a right to annihilate those who don't believe like they do. 
   That is the enemy that we are up against. And this geopolitical dynamic needs to be understood by the Members of this Congress, and I am thinking the best way they can understand it is when the American people study it and get their voice into the ears of their representatives, the 435 here in the U.S. States House of Representatives. 
   But to take on a little more of this, I would point out that a major question needs to be asked and answered, and I hope the President has asked the question and I hope he has answered the question, and that is: Can we live with, here in the United States, a nuclear armed Iran? That is part of this overall equation. It isn't just confined to Iraq. 
   As I spoke earlier, Iran is conducting a proxy war against the United States in Iraq by training and funding and harboring terrorists and sending them munitions and equipping them and also making IEDs and other munitions that go into Iraq that are being used against Iraqis of all stripes and being used against Americans. That has to stop. 
   But can we tolerate a nuclear-powered Iran, an irrational nuclear-powered Iran that has Ahmadinejad who is fuming and making allegations about the annihilation of Israel and the annihilation of the United States. 
   All we have to do is listen to these tyrants and believe what they say. Every action that they make makes it clear that they will develop a nuclear bomb. They will develop more than one. They are developing the means to deliver it now, as they are developing a bomb now. Why would we disbelieve them? Why would we think that we could talk them out of it? When you go into negotiations, you never get something for nothing. You have to have something to offer. 
   I ask the President, and I hope he will tell us tonight, that he has put the cross hairs on Iran, and directly on their nuclear capability and sent through a back-channel message to Ahmadinejad and the mullahs that run him that Iran's nuclear days are numbered and that there is a decision that has already been made that they will not have a nuclear capability. And if they cease and desist from their proxy war against the United States that they are conducting within Iraq, then they will be allowed, perhaps, enough negotiation time that they can save some face before they dismantle their nuclear endeavor. 
   Should they proceed, then the decision needs to be made whether to take out Iran's nuclear capability. We saw 4 days ago, there was intelligence or I will say a press leak that came out of Israel that they have a contingency plan to take out Iran's nuclear capability with limited tactical nuclear weapons. If they have to do that, I am afraid there is an all-out conflagration in the Middle East, and all Arab countries will descend upon Israel. If somebody has to do it, it is better if we do it. It is better if Ahmadinejad dismantles his nuclear capability. 
   That is where I would start: Cross hairs on Ahmadinejad, put the cross hairs on their nuclear capability, and then if they back out of Iraq, then we can have a peaceful Iraq. We still have to remove Muqtada al-Sadr and some other militia leaders. If those two things happen, that shuts off the money, the munitions and the operations of violence that are there. As long as there is money there, somebody is going to set an IED. I can see that. But most is controllable by the Iraqis. 
   I have watched as thousands of Iraqi troops have been trained, lined up in ranks. I first saw them and reviewed those troops in October 2003. Those troops were trained by General David Petraeus. He headed up the Iraqi military training operations when he was over there during the last deployment, and now he has been appointed to command all military operations within Iraq. He is the most impressive military person I have met in my life. If anyone can run this operation in Iraq successfully, it is David Petraeus. He has the love and respect of many of the Iraqis, the Kurds and Sunnis and Shias. And in Mosul, where the 101st Airborne, which he commanded when they went in to liberate Iraq, there in Mosul, they went in and liberated Mosul in the latter part of March 2003. By the end of May 2003, General Petraeus had held open elections in Mosul in those three provinces there, and elected a governor and a vice governor, and I also recall a business representative at the table in those discussions that we had. That was an impressive means to win the hearts and minds of the people, and also from a military tactical perspective. 
   But to give you an understanding of how effective General Petraeus has been, there is a sign, and I have a picture of it as a street sign on a broad street in the city of Mosul in Iraq, and it said: 101st Airborne Division. They misspelled ``airborne'' and ``division'' so I was pretty sure that it was a sign put up by the Iraqi people in appreciation for the 101st Airborne led then by General Petraeus who will be taking over and commanding all military forces within Iraq. 
   We can win this. We must win this. We do not have a tactical threat against us. We can and will prevail. The American people need to stand together. Mr. Wamp said that, and I agree with him.     
   We need to stand with our Commander in Chief. It isn't really up to the President to convince the American people that we should move forward on this, but it is up to us to support our military. And if we are going to support our military, we must support their mission, Mr. Speaker. 
   So I look forward to the President's speech. It is a pleasure for me to have the honor and privilege to turn over, I will say this network, to the President of the United States as he lays out a  plan for victory in the battlefield of Iraq, which will take us on to a final victory in the overall global war on terror. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. Hunter), who was the distinguished chairman of the Armed Services Committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DUNCAN HUNTER NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to offer an amendment asking the Chief of the National Guard Bureau to develop a report on the effectiveness of certain Guard ``empowerment'' provisions that were contained in the FY08 Defense Authorization Act. 
   Mr. Chairman, since September 11, 2001, the United States has increasingly turned to the men and women of the National Guard to provide much needed support in our efforts to prosecute a global war against radical Islamic jihaddists. Answering their Nation's call to arms, Guard units from across the country have faithfully and courageously served in harm's way on the front lines of this historic struggle. 
   The men and women of the Iowa National Guard are no different. Just last month, constituents from my congressional district in Western Iowa welcomed home members of the Iowa Army National Guard who returned from deployments in Iraq. As has been the case with many Guard units across the country, this is not the first welcome home ceremony that these units have enjoyed in the past few years. 
   And yet, while the Guard is deploying many of its members to distant battlefields, it is still expected to meet the many demands of its domestic mission. Despite the Nation's need for men and women of the Guard to serve on the battlefield, our State Governors must continue to have ready access to the Guard to respond to the emergency and disaster relief needs of their States. 
   There is no doubt that the services and capabilities of the Guard are in high demand. In many respects, this is due to the fact that both active duty commanders and governors know that when they call, the Guard will be there. They also know that Guard members can always be counted upon to complete their mission in the most efficient and professional manner possible. 
   The many demands placed upon the Guard, however, have begun to wear down its capabilities. To address this, Congress included several provisions in the FY08 National Defense Authorization Act intended to boost the standing of the Guard within the Department of Defense. The ``empowerment'' provisions included the elevation of the Chief of the Guard Bureau from the rank of Lieutenant General to the rank of full General. The bill also made the Guard Chief the primary advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs on Guard matters. 
   In addition to these important changes, the bill also made the National Guard a joint agency, charges the Secretary of Defense with writing the Guard's charter, and requires that the Deputy Commander of the Northern Command be a member of the Guard. 
   All of these changes, Mr. Chairman, were aimed at ensuring the National Guard would have a clearer voice in policy and budgetary discussions within the Department of Defense. To determine the extent to which these empowerment provisions have accomplished this goal, my amendment asks the Chief of the Guard Bureau to submit a report to the Secretary of Defense analyzing the effectiveness of the empowerment provisions. My amendment then requires the Secretary of Defense to submit the Chief's report to Congress with the Secretary's own comments on the matter. 
   Mr. Chairman, as we continue to wage a global war against radical Islamic jihaddists, it is imperative that we give the National Guard the resources and pull necessary to ensure it is able to remain an integral part of this fight and to ensure it is able to carry out its duties with respect to its domestic mission here at home. To do this, we must see to it that we are responsive to the needs of the Guard. With the passage of the empowerment provisions in last year's Defense Authorization bill, we have taken some important first steps toward addressing the 21st century needs of the Guard. But only the Guard itself will be able to tell us if these changes have hit their mark and are having their intended effect. 
   This amendment will allow Congress to get important, first-hand feedback from the Guard on this important issue, and I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting its passage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman, and ranking member, Mr. Smith, for yielding and for his leadership on this issue. 
   I come to the floor here to stand up for this Constitution. That is my oath as it is all of our oaths here. We all stand here on the floor of Congress and take an oath to this Constitution, Madam Speaker. And the language in this Constitution has been many times stated. It is utterly clear. But I want to draw a distinction here that has not been emphasized very much and that is that if you can rationalize that the District of Columbia can constitutionally be conferred a Member by this Congress, then you also have to rationalize that same rationale that two Senators can be conferred upon the District of Columbia as well.     
   And I point your attention to, Madam Speaker, Article I, section 2 and the operative language: ``The House of Representatives shall be composed of Members chosen every second year by,'' and this is the distinct language, ``by the people of the several States.'' 
   In Article I, section 3, when you incorporate the 17th amendment into it, reads: ``The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State,'' just like a Member chosen by the State, but elected by the people thereof; elected by the people thereof in section 3; chosen by the people of the several States in section 2. They each reference ``States.'' There is not a distinction. If you can constitutionally confer a Member of Congress, you can do the same thing for Senators. 
   And I would point out also that a couple of bright legal minds that have weighed in on this, Ken Starr and Viet Dinh, people whom I do respect, also I believe they made an argument that is taught in law school: How do you analyze both sides of the argument so you can make both sides or defend either side? 
   And I think it is just an utterly weak argument that they made. And the simple principle was that between 1791 and 1801, that 10-year period of time, Virginia and Maryland, those residents that existed and lived in this District that was contemplated by the Framers of the Constitution were granted temporarily the right to vote in their respective States until such time as this Federal jurisdiction was established. 
   Just because there is consensus agreement among the House, the Senate, and the President does not constitute a constitutional principle. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, as always, it is a privilege and an honor to be recognized to speak on the floor of the United States House of Representatives. I bit my tongue over the last hour and listened attentively to some of the dialogue that was taking place. It is important, I believe, to correct the record at least on the portion I was paying attention. 
   The issue that was being discussed by the six or seven on the other side of the aisle was about the eight U.S. Attorneys who were fired by the President. There are great, huge, yawning gaps in the description that came out. For the benefit of the people listening to that portion of it, I will attempt to fill in the gaps. 
   One is the President dismissed eight U.S. Attorneys. That runs about 85 short that were fired summarily by President Clinton. Talk about a chilling effect on your ability to prosecute if you happened to have been looking into Whitewater or if you happened to have been the prosecutor of Dan Rostenkowski and you found yourself immediately fired, and then subsequent to that, your successor achieving a conviction in the case of Rostenkowski, and then watching President Clinton pardon the very subject of your investigation, I would think that would be a chilling effect on a prosecutor. 
   But the allegation was made that ``the independence of our U.S. Attorneys is the hallmark of justice.'' Well, yes, I think that is true, but they serve at the pleasure of the President, and the President has the authority and he has the responsibility, Mr. Speaker, to ensure that those U.S. Attorneys are conducting their job, that they are actually prosecuting cases, locking people up in prison and not only taking them out of the crime job market, but also providing an example that keeps other people from committing crimes. When those prosecutions are not taking place at the pace they need to, if they are failing to distinguish themselves, then it is the responsibility and the duty of the President and subsequently the Attorney General to direct that they be removed. 
   The allegation that the firing of U.S. Attorneys for political purposes was a statement made by the gentleman from New Hampshire. Political purposes. There is no evidence that has been submitted on either side of the aisle that says they were fired for political purposes. There has been speculation, but that is an allegation that I think is a heavy allegation and it is an unjust allegation, and the people who make those kinds of allegations have a responsibility to come forward with some shred of evidence that they base their opinion on rather than wishful thinking.     
   This is no scandal, Mr. Speaker. It is not a scandal because it is eight U.S. attorneys. Eight U.S. attorneys, and there is not a partisan divide here that can be seen. It is not like there were eight Democrat U.S. attorneys that were investigating Republicans in office. There is no evidence of that. It is more like there were Republicans and Democrats who have been admonished in the past and challenged by Members of this Congress, at least in one particular case, for not being aggressive enough, for not providing the kind of prosecutions necessary to enforce our borders. 
   Now, that is something that is essential to our national security, and if the allegations that are made here on the floor of this Congress and the statements that are made in committee and the witch hunt that is going on by submitting and requesting, subpoenaing the White House's closest advisers whom the President relies upon to be able to give him unfettered counsel, and they cannot be intimidated. Talk about intimidation, a subpoena to come before Congress and be questioned on the record about your most private advice to the Commander in Chief of the United States of America is what is going on here. 
   This is an unjust, unbalanced overreach, and it is my advice to the new majority to start acting like the majority because you are going to have to take responsibility for governing. You have not shifted gears from demagoguery of the past into the responsibility to provide policy that is going to direct this country into the future. It is high time that that happened. Break the mold. Let us go forward with good policy, and remember, if you have the gavels, you have the responsibility to make statements that are precisely correct, accurate all the way, truthful in every way possible, and move this country forward in the right direction and provide solutions, not just criticism. 
   I expect that subject will come up a little bit more, Mr. Speaker, within the next 53 minutes or so. Hopefully that will dispatch that subject for tonight. 
   But I would raise also there are two more issues before us tonight, Mr. Speaker, and one of them is hanging in the balance here in an unprecedented move, and that is the effort to provide a voting Delegate for the District of Columbia here in the United States Congress. It is an astonishing thing for me. It is an astonishing thing for me to be one of 435 Members of this House of Representatives who comes down to this floor every 2 years, and I bring my own Bible down here to make sure I am not short a Bible because I want my oath to go before God and country, for God and country, and take an oath to uphold the Constitution of the United States, so help me God. I add those words to my oath, and I have done so every time that I have been here to take that oath. 
   I believe that if there is a bill before this Congress, and as we analyze it constitutionally, if any of us come to the  conclusion that it is an unconstitutional piece of legislation, it is our responsibility or our duty, our obligation, our oath to uphold such unconstitutional legislation. We have taken an oath to do so. Vote ``no'' and clearly articulate the reasons why that bill is unconstitutional. 
   So Mr. Speaker, I have clearly articulated that before the Rules Committee, before the Rules debate here on the floor, and with the case of the bill on the floor, and I will seek to do that again for the edification of those that were not paying attention and still think that they can come around here tomorrow or next week or whenever it is that the majority gets the votes lined up and vote for an unconstitutional bill because they think it fits their politics. That is not what this oath is about, and so this D.C. district sets this way. 
   The first unconstitutional provision is this. Article I, section 2 of the Constitution says that the Representatives shall be Representatives of the States chosen by the people of the States. So if D.C., the District of Columbia, is not a State, it is a clear constitutional provision that prohibits this Congress from bestowing a Member, a voting Member representing the District of Columbia into this Congress because the District of Columbia simply is not a State. 
   Now, there are a couple of ways to resolve this issue. One would be to adopt the District of Columbia as a State, in which case they would get a Representative for the House of Representatives and two Senators. If that could be done and this Congress could pass it and we adopt District of Columbia as a State, that would be a constitutional solution. 
   Another constitutional solution would be to simply to take the populated areas outside our Federal buildings, just a little bit outside the Mall, from the Potomac River all the way up here around to the east side of the Capitol, set that aside as the District, and the balance of the District then could be ceded back to Maryland. That then could be incorporated into the redistricting process, and the people that lived in the District would be able to vote for a Representative in Congress. 
   But the arguments made on the other side go something like this, Mr. Speaker, and that is, well, we think that it is a violation of the 14th amendment, a violation of the equal protection clause, for people to live in the District of Columbia and not have a vote, be able to elect a Member of Congress. 
   I would submit, if that is so compelling that one can ignore the Constitution's clear language, then, Mr. Speaker, it is equally compelling to demand two Senators for the same region, and some will acknowledge that that is the goal, and some will deny it. 
   But this Constitution has always been kind of an inconvenient thing, Mr. Speaker. What is inconvenient about it is it provides constraints, constraints for both sides, Democrats and Republicans, constraints for all of us who have a political reason or a policy need that does not consider the long-term best interests of the people of the United States. 
   This Constitution is the law of the land, Mr. Speaker, and I will submit that our Founding Fathers considered this when they established this constitutional Republic that we are in, and as they considered this, they looked at the democracies, the relatively pure democracies that they had in the Greek city-states 2,000 and 3,000 years ago, and they concluded that in the case of the pure democracy, the result was the same effect as if you had two wolves and a sheep taking a vote on what is for dinner. The majority rules, and the sheep is dinner. 
   So are we going to get let those kind of whims wave back and forth across the floor of this Congress, Mr. Speaker, or are we going to adhere to a Constitution that we have sworn an oath to uphold? I will submit that what I am seeing is the two wolves are taking a vote on what is for dinner, and the sheep is the Constitution here, and the minority in the United States House of Representatives, and I have pledged to uphold this Constitution, I will stand in the way to the last breath of an unconstitutional provision, no matter what it is. 
   But the arguments that were made here on the other side of the aisle primarily, Mr. Speaker, came down to this: That there are two very well-respected attorneys that have written opinions that will take the position that it is not unconstitutional for this Congress to ignore the Constitution and confer a voting right on a 
   Member from the District of Columbia. Yet, as I look at those two names, they are high and stellar names, Mr. Ken Starr and Mr. Viet Dinh. I have worked to some degree with both of them and read their opinions, and I recognize that when one goes off to law school, one of the first things they teach you, Mr. Speaker, is argue this side of the case, now argue this side of the case, take the position on the right side, take the position on the left side. 
   There are two reasons for being able to argue both sides of every issue, Mr. Speaker, and one of them is so if you are hired to argue one side, you are prepared to do so; you are not stuck in an individual ideology. The other one is, if you want to survive in the attorney business, you can provide for billable hours because you are a lot more flexible to be able to go on either side of an issue. 
   Well, I do not allege that these legal opinions that have been produced by Mr. Starr and Mr. Viet Dinh do not have a basis. They do. I just submit that it is a weak basis, Mr. Speaker, and as I read through that, there is the foundation of the Tidewater case. Their argument there is that because a court found in favor of allowing the people in the District to have the Federal court protection and conferred that kind of utilization of the court on the residents here in the District of Columbia, that that implies that they are citizens of a State. Well, that is an utterly weak analysis, Mr. Speaker. 
   Then the second argument, and that seemed to be even an argument that they hung their hat on even more, was the argument that, and believe me, the Framers understood there was going to be a District of Columbia. When this Constitution was ratified, they knew that. They defined it within the Constitution itself in Article I, but what they provided for was for the 10-mile-by-10-mile section that was laid out to become the District of Columbia for a period of time, that was from 1791 until 1801, that roughly 10-year period of time, until the Federal jurisdiction was applied here in this District, they allowed the people that before that time had been residents of Virginia to vote as residents of Virginia, and they allowed the people that had been residents of Maryland to continue voting as residents of Maryland. 
   So nothing changed for the people that were residents of the District for 10 years until the Federal jurisdiction was established, at which time then they did not have a Representative here in this Congress, and have not had all this time for this 200-plus years. 
   Well, the argument that was made by the two stellar legal scholars was because Congress allowed the people that lived here in this District to vote as residents of Maryland or Virginia, as the case may be, for 10 years, somehow that established a precedent or a constitutional right to have a Representative in the United States Congress, an utterly weak argument, and a precedent it was not. 
   Mr. Dinh admitted what the analysis comes down to, because there was an agreement between the House and the Senate, and the President signed the bill and let them vote conditionally for a 10-year period of time, that it was no precedent like you would get if the Supreme Court had made a decision. The only decision was no one disagreed with, so there was no constitutional argument to be resolved. In fact, no constitutional precedent was established either. 
   We go forward, and now equal protection under the law, Utah, to give a resident or a Member at-large so that if you are a resident of Utah, you can go and vote for your Representative in your district and the Representative that would be the Representative at-large in Utah. In fact, if you are a Member or a candidate, you could vote for yourself and somebody else to come here and do the same job. That is not equal protection under the law. 
   There was a case in 1961 called Baker v. Carr that tied this down to as close to an individual population balance as you could possibly get. That was the beginning of one man, one vote. There was a subsequent case in 1964 that speaks to it as well, but Utah also blows this Constitution sideways.  
   There are many reasons to vote ``no'' on this, and the difficulty that the majority has, and now unprecedentedly pulling a bill down as it was to go up for final passage and refused to allow a vote after days of building up to this with no explanation is unprecedented in this Congress, and that violates, I believe, the right of the people to be heard and the right of their judgment to be recorded here in a recorded vote on whether the District of Columbia will have an unconstitutional Member in this Congress or whether they will not, Mr. Speaker. 
   So that kind of cleans up the air here and gets us to this point where we are at the subject matter we came here to talk about, and what I would like to do to kick that subject matter off would be to yield to the gentlewoman from Tennessee, the tenacious Marsha Blackburn. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentlelady from Tennessee. Certainly I wish to associate myself with all of her remarks, and I appreciate the consistency and the persistence with which Mrs. Blackburn comes here to the floor and participates in committee in every way possible to move the right agenda here in America. 
   I reflect upon a thought that crossed my mine a week or so ago or maybe 2  weeks ago in committee, as I was listening to the kind of argument and debate that was coming from the other side of the aisle, and the discussion was about people who have food anxiety. We established food stamps for people who were suffering from malnutrition, and then we extended those benefits to those that were hungry, and now the effort is to extend those benefits, not to just those that, we can't make the argument that people don't know where their next meal is coming from any longer, so now the argument is made that people wonder where their second, third, fourth and fifth meal is coming from, and that is called food anxiety. Food insecurity is the more appropriate term they likely use, food insecurity. 
   It occurred to me, this Constitution, I waved it around a little earlier, provides some constitutional rights: life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. But as I read back through my history and recognize that FDR back in the 1930s made another speech, and it's called the Four Freedoms speech. Those four freedoms, as he defined them, are etched into stone down in FDR's monument. First is freedom of speech, the second is freedom of religion. Those are constitutional rights. Speech and religion are one and two, third and fourth are freedom from want and freedom from fear. 
   Now, those aren't constitutional rights. They are extra-constitutional rights, as articulated by FDR. But they were used to advance an agenda that grew government more dramatically than ever before, and it eclipsed the vision of most Americans. But they are really not rights. They are not constitutional rights. It's a vision or an image to have freedom from want and freedom from fear. Now, I don't know how you ever get to that point where you are free from fear. I don't think that can be guaranteed. 
   But we have gone another step now with the food anxiety or the food insecurity part. Now we have gone from our real freedoms, freedom of speech and religion, all of our Bill of Rights, to freedom from want and freedom from fear as articulated by FDR. Now, because of food insecurity language, now the argument is we need to make sure that people are free from the fear of want, freedom from fear of want. 
   So you should never have to wonder about whether you could pay your rent. You should never have to wonder about where your next meal is coming from. You should never have to wonder if you are going to have a job or if you are going to get fired, because government can be all things to all people. Government can take this safety net and turn it into a hammock, and no one has any anxiety. Perhaps we could cure ulcers if we could just have enough Federal money to do that. 
   If we are free from fear of want, we will also be free of the ambition to provide for our future wants and needs. If that's the case, the productivity in America will go down dramatically, and we will watch this work ethic in our culture collapse. One of the things that drove me to work my entire life was fear of want and not knowing, necessarily, even where my next meal was coming from, not knowing if I was going to be in business the next week or next month, but knowing I was the one in charge, I was the one in control. I had to not only work hard; I had to work smart. 
   That has given millions of Americans to succeed, freedom from fear of want, a new right in this new Pelosi administration. I offer that thought for edification and consideration. 
   But I also recognize that the gentleman who represents the vast majority of the State of Nebraska and some of those spaces out there are, indeed, vast, Mr. Smith. I appreciate your arrival in this Congress, the values that you bring here, and the principled stand that you take. Often there are many things that tie western Iowa to all of Nebraska, and particularly western Nebraska. I appreciate you being here on the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. If the gentleman would yield, and just inquire as you were working through that budget last night, what kind of message did you get from the majority party on how much support there was for the Department of Defense budget and how much support for military spending? We are having this debate here on the floor today and starting again tomorrow morning. Did you sense that there was a commitment to support our military financially, our troops, and their mission?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Nebraska, a Mr. Smith who has come to Washington to stand up for middle-American values, and to hold the line on the spending in the Budget Committee, hold the line on the constitutional issues with the micromanagement that is coming out of here with this supplemental spending bill, this emergency supplemental spending bill. 
   And I will make no such pledge that it isn't my job to challenge the people with whom I disagree with. In fact, I believe it is my job to do that, and I intend to step up every time and draw those bright lines when I think it is imperative that those bright lines be drawn. 
   So here we are with this bill on the floor being debated several hours today, with 1 or 2 hours left in the debate for tomorrow. And maybe it will go to final passage, maybe the votes won't be there, maybe the vote will get pulled down just like D.C. voting was pulled down today. They take it all the way through the process, and, at the time it is supposed to go up on the board, realize, we lost the debate, so now we can't allow a vote. That is exactly what happened here in the House of Representatives today. The people's voice wasn't heard. 
   We have got a little debate to go tomorrow. People are going to sleep on this tonight, and they are going to think about the President asking for $99 billion to provide for Afghanistan and Iraq, the surge in Iraq, the strategy that was part of the Iraq Study Group's recommendation, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group's recommendation, and the effort to succeed in Iraq. 
   And it is interesting that the President has retooled our approach here. We have a new Secretary of Defense, Secretary Gates; we have a new Secretary, at least an Acting Secretary of the Army, Mr. Geren; and we have a new Commander at Walter Reed Hospital, we have a new Commander of CENTCOM. And this is a new plan, a new plan put together by the individual who wrote the book on counterterrorism and the most successful general that I believe that we have seen come out of the Iraq theater, and that is General David Petraeus, I believe the most impressive military individual I have met in my time here, in fact in my life. And his strategy is part of the same strategy that the Iraq Study Group put out. And having written the book on counterterrorism and being endorsed without opposition for his confirmation for a fourth star by the United States Senate, and within a week the United States Senate is back trying to jerk the rug out from underneath his plan, trying to oppose the surge in Iraq and trying to oppose the 21,500 extra troops that go in there. And now we are seeing a little wavering, a little quavering, and some people going a little wobbly because they are starting to see the positive signs in the effort in Baghdad. 
   Now, the situation there is kind of interesting, Mr. Speaker. Baghdad and 30 miles around outside of Baghdad is where 80 percent of the violence in Iraq is taking place. And it occurred to me, it was actually back in December, I was reflecting back upon the 101st Airborne 62 years earlier had been surrounded at Bastogne during the Battle of the Bulge in World War II. Bastogne, a city that had seven roads leading to it and 
   through it, was the centerpiece of the transportation link. It was the key to success or failure in the Battle of the Bulge, and maybe it was the key to victory or defeat for either side in World War II, at least in the European theater. 
   And so, as the 101st Airborne was surrounded at Bastogne, mercilessly being shelled by the Germans, and the Germans demanded the surrender of the 101st, General McCollum's response is famous, and it should echo throughout all of American history when he said in his response to the Germans, ``Nuts.'' We understood what that meant, being Americans. The Germans didn't. They had to go get their linguists to try to understand what it meant, and they still, I don't think, have figured out to this day. Well, that was in one word, four letters, the American spirit of defiance, the American spirit of perseverance. 
   And there they were surrounded at Bastogne, hopelessly surrounded, and their response was, ``Nuts.'' We are hanging on and we are going to defend Bastogne. And shortly thereafter we had General Patton and the 3rd Army that came and relieved the 101st Airborne. They argue to this day that they didn't need the help of the 3rd Army, that they had the Germans right where they wanted them. 
   That was the American spirit 62 years ago, Mr. Speaker, and today 80 percent of the violence is within Baghdad or 30 miles from Baghdad. Baghdad is essentially surrounded; it is not a stronghold. We have always gone wherever we wanted to go in Baghdad, or any other city in Iraq for that matter, even though the press calls it a stronghold. We went wherever we wanted to go, and we go more now than we did before. Baghdad is significantly pacified, but Baghdad was surrounded by peace, a relative peace at least, and the violence was in there. 
   Now, if we had pulled out, or if sometime in the future this side of the aisle is successful in shutting off the resources so that our military can't succeed in their mission, and we pull out of there, I believe history will judge us nuts if we do such a thing, Mr. Speaker. 
   There is too much at stake. There is no discussion on this side of the aisle here about the consequences for pulling out. No one has a plan for victory. No one over there will utter the ``V'' word, the victory word. No one will define it. They are just a group of ``defeatocrats'' that can't get it out of their head that America's destiny is worth more than marking political points against your opposition. 
   So we sit here with more than 3,000 lives sacrificed for the freedom of the Iraqi people and the destiny of the world, because if we don't defeat this enemy here in Iraq, as Prime Minister Maliki said right here behind where I am standing right now, he said, ``If the terrorists can't be defeated in Iraq, they can't be defeated anywhere.'' 
   Now, if Mr. Murtha gets his way and troops are deployed out of Iraq, the bill doesn't say where, but he has said where: Okinawa. Okinawa. Over the horizon is Okinawa, and we can put our troops over there, and then we can fly them wherever we need them whenever we need them. I would say we might as well take them right to Afghanistan. And I am going to explain the reason for that, Mr. Speaker.  
   First, this is a poster of Muqtada al-Sadr. He is quite an interesting character. He started out in this conflict as a militia general, and he wasn't doing very well down south of Baghdad a couple of years ago when he suffered huge, huge casualties in the Madhi militia. In fact, the casualties were so heavy that he decided to become a politician instead of a general, and so he entered into and built a little coalition and picked up 30 seats in the Iraqi Parliament. He also took over the security on the civilian side of Baghdad International Airport, along with one portion of the Shia region of Baghdad and some of the area to the south. Muqtada al-Sadr, not a friend of the United States, an individual who has empowered himself by attacking the United States and denigrating the United States and inspiring his followers the same way, and this is how he did it. 
   And I was sitting in Kuwait City, the date is right here, June 11, 2004, waiting to go into Iraq the next day, and I was watching al-Jazeera TV, Mr. Speaker. Now, Muqtada al-Sadr came on, this burly face, and he was speaking in Arabic, so I was looking at the crawler underneath in English, and it read just like this: ``If we keep attacking Americans, they will leave Iraq the same way they left Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left Mogadishu.'' That was Muqtada al-Sadr, June 11, 2004. Al-Jazeera TV. I attest to that; I was there, I wrote it down; I saw it; I heard it. And that is the statement that he made. 
   Now, I went back and picked up the book written by General Vo Nguen Giap, and it is, ``How We Won the War.'' And he is writing about the Vietnam war, how they won the war. And very early in the book he takes the position that because the United States did not win a clear victory in Korea, they understood that we would maybe not have the will to win a clear victory in Vietnam. So their strategy from the beginning was to fight the war in such a way that it would break down and defeat American public opinion and encourage the antiwar activists all across this country and around the world. That was a part of their calculated strategy that is in the book, ``How We Won the War'' by General Giap. 
   Now, it hadn't occurred to me that because we settled for a truce at the 38th parallel in Korea at the place, the same line as the beginning of the war was the end of the war. But because we didn't push the Communists all the way out of North Korea and draw a new line, they believe that we could be defeated because we didn't demonstrate the will to succeed. 
   Carl Von Clausewitz wrote the treatise on war, and the name of the book is, ``On War.'' And he states in there, ``The object of war is to destroy the enemy's will and ability to conduct war.'' To destroy the enemy's will and ability, Mr. Speaker. And I believe Clausewitz lists will ahead of ability because it is more important here. Your will to succeed, your will to prevail is more important than your ability to conduct war. 
   In other words, if you are fighting an enemy, and you destroy their airplanes and their navy and their tanks and their guns and their ammunition, and they still have the will to fight you, they will come at you with IEDs or rocks or fists or boots or clubs, because they still have the will to take you on. 
   But here in this Congress, there have been dozens, there are scores, there, in fact, may be more than 100, there may be more than 200 that don't understand that when they stand here on this floor and they speak against our military's mission, they are encouraging people like Muqtada al-Sadr when he is inspiring his people by saying, ``All we have to do is keep attacking Americans, and they will pull out of Iraq the same way they did Vietnam, Lebanon and Mogadishu.''     
   And if we should do that, Mr. Speaker, I can show you the next poster you will see on this floor, the next quote that will show up in the news media. 
   This is another notorious individual: Osama bin Laden. Where is he? We are looking diligently for him. One day we will find him. 
   But the lesson from Muktadr al-Sadr, the lesson that needs to be understood by the Defeatocrats is that if we pull out of Iraq, we don't win there. You have al Qaeda taking over. You have Iran coming in and taking over 70 to 80 percent of the Iraqi oil. You have Iran with their hand on the valve that could shut off at the Straits of Hormuz, 42.6 percent of the world's export oil. Doing so let's them control the world economy, including that of the United States, including that of China, empowering Russia, empowering Iran, intimidating and controlling the entire Middle Eastern oil supply by Ahmadinejad. That is what is in store for us if we don't prevail. 
   And so Maktadr al-Sadr has laid it out, and he has got a clear vision. His vision isn't hard to figure out. General Giap has figured it out, just from seeing that we would settle for a truce at the 38th Parallel, and we have got Maktadr al-Sadr seeing that and Vietnam and Lebanon and Mogadishu, and several others, by the way. 
   But if we pull out of Iraq, our troops aren't going to be deployed to over the horizon, Mr. Murtha, or over to Okinawa, Mr. Murtha. They may get to go home for a little while and polish their boots, but they are going to Afghanistan, because that is the next stop for these terrorists that are going to keep coming at us until we defeat them or capitulate. 
   And so this will be the next quote you will see if we pull out of Iraq. It will be Osama bin Laden this time, and he will be saying, if we keep attacking Americans they will leave Afghanistan the same way they left Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left Mogadishu, the same way they left Iraq. That is what is in front of us if we don't have the will to prevail, Mr. Speaker. 
   And these kinds of unconstitutional supplemental or emergency spending bills that tie so many strings on to the hands of the Commander in Chief, that if he adheres to the language that is in here, ties his hands so he can't win. 
   Now, why would you not be for victory? Why would you send money over there and not provide a way for the troops to win? 
   This bill pulls us out of Iraq. That is the goal and they have said so. Their goal is not victory. Their goal has been defeat for a long time so they can say I told you so. To put a stain on this administration perhaps. To try to gain political favor, perhaps. But whatever is their motivation, I will submit that this appropriations bill is unconstitutional because it is micromanagement of the duties of the Commander in Chief. 
   And so I will submit that this Constitution gives this Congress three responsibilities when it comes to war. The first one is to declare war. We haven't done that since World War II. The second one is constitutionally to raise and equip an Army and a Navy, and by implication an Air Force. The third one is to fund the war. That is it. No other constitutional responsibilities. Declare a war, raise a military, fund military. But the President is Commander in Chief because our founders lived through the mistakes of trying to run a war with a whole series of micromanagers and trying to do so by consensus or majority rule within the Continental Congress. 
   The Continental Congress tried to micromanage the war that was fought by the Continental Army. And they were so stung by that painful effort, and the only thing that preserved them was they had the will for victory. They carried themselves through the hardest of times, barefoot at Valley Forge, because they were determined that they were going to defeat the British and establish a new nation. And that is the legacy that the founders have passed along to us. And they drew bright lines in this Constitution because they understood you couldn't fight a war by committee. You couldn't fight a war if a Congress was going to micromanage the Commander in Chief. So they drew the line clearly, and there is no equivocation, and there is no historical record about the founders wondering about who had what responsibility when it came to fighting a war. No. It was the Commander in Chief. And they gave Congress the authority, declare a war, raise the Army and the Navy, and then, I said by implication, the Air Force, and fund it. 
   So if you don't want to support our military, and if you don't want to support their mission, then you ought to have enough intestinal fortitude to  come down here with a bill that unfunds our military and face the wrath of the American people and the wrath of the United States military, who, by the way, are 100 percent volunteers, not just to join the military and put on the uniform, but for the mission that they are on. 
   Everyone there has had an opportunity to retire from the military in such time since the beginning of this conflict. Yet, Mr. Speaker, they step forward and they re-up and they volunteer in greater numbers than one ever anticipated. These are brave souls that are on a mission. And to say to them, after they have volunteered for one or two or three or more deployments, well, thanks a lot for the effort, but we are not going to let you finish the job, we are going to drag you home. 
   Well, I would say to that that I could quote a colonel that I went to Iraq with not that long ago, and he said, and I don't know if I will find it so I will speak from off the cuff and this will be close. It won't be probably an exact quote. He said, don't save me. I volunteered for this mission. Don't save me. I am here because I volunteered for my children. I am here to fight this war so my children don't have to fight this war. You are not doing me any favors if you try to pull me out of this mission that I am committed to. And I have children at home that I am here to defend. 
   Now, I would say, also, that probably the most profound statement that I heard from a military person over there was a major from Kentucky. And he is a farmer, a father, loved his cows, worried about his bull, wanted to see the digital picture of his new bull, and loves God. And he said to me, he said, we have everything we need. So when you pray for us, meaning the military, pray for the American people. Pray they understand the threat, and pray they do not lose their resolve. We will not lose ours. 
   That is the kind of personnel we have that put their lives on the line for the future of freedom in the world, for the safety of the American people so that we can ultimately prevail in this long, long war against these global terrorists who believe that their path to salvation is in killing us. 
   It is not going to be easy. It is not going to be over quickly. And, in fact, every time we step back and show weakness, it empowers the enemy and we are more likely to hear this statement sooner. 
   But this is not over if we pull out of Iraq, as General Pelosi and Mr. Murtha would like to do. It is not over. They will follow us here. And they will be more empowered. They will have a base that is protected that they can operate from out of Iraq. And you hand over that oil money to the Iranians, they will be spending it to buy missiles to deliver nuclear weapons, not just to Tel Aviv, not just to Western Europe, but within a few short years to the United States. And we will face an enemy that is a lot tougher than the one we are facing right now. 
   We need to resolve this issue in the Middle East now. This is the time to do so. Put the cross hairs on Iran's nuclear and tell them cease fighting this proxy war against the United States within Iraq. Resolve and pacify Iraq, and turn our focus over to Afghanistan. Because if we don't do so, this man and his allies turn Iraq into a terrorist base camp, and they turn their effort to Afghanistan to try to drive us out of there and destroy the freedom that has been established there, where people voted for the first time on that soil in all of history. 
   That is what we are faced with. This is a long war. We need to step up to it. We need to understand that. We need to let our voluntary military perform their mission and stand with them, because not only do we stand with our military, but we stand with them in their mission. I do so on this side of the aisle. I challenge everyone on that side of the aisle to do the same. 
   It is intellectually inconsistent to take a position that you can support the troops and not their mission. And it is constitutionally inconsistent, in fact unconstitutional, to micromanage a war from the floor of Congress and tie so many strings in there that they can't be met, so that it is certain that if this language passes and the President adheres to it that there will be an end to this sort of victory. 
   And I ask the President, Mr. Speaker, to stand on this constitutionally. He has the authority to do intra-departmental transfers. If the money goes to DOD and it is directed to an aircraft carrier and we need armored Humvees and Strykers and bulletproof vests, he can mothball that aircraft carrier and put the money where it is needed. That is why he is Commander in Chief. That is constitutional. This bill is not. And I urge that all Members stand up and vote ``no'' on this when it comes to the floor tomorrow. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1591, U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I come to the floor here, Mr. Speaker, to stand up for this Constitution, for our United States military, for our Commander in Chief and for the future and the destiny of America, because we need to take another level up along on our destiny. 
   But this Constitution gives this Congress only three things we can do with regard to war. One of them is to declare war, which we have not done since World War II, one of them is to raise an Army and a Navy, and by implication, an Air Force, and the next one is to fund it. There are no provisions in there for micromanaging the war, and that has been clear, and it is  a historical precedent, and there is no precedent throughout the last century, at least, that allows this Congress to assign 435 generals to this task. 
   And so, Mr. Speaker, I would submit that this is an unconstitutional appropriations bill. And if it should go to the President's desk, he should veto it in its entirety and bring it back here. Force this Congress to do the right thing that is constitutional and not be micromanaging in this war. 
   This is not a General Pelosi war to fight. This is a Commander in Chief, George W. Bush, fight. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1433, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Texas for yielding and to have an opportunity to address this issue. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the rule and the underlying bill. The first premise is that we all stand here on the floor of this Congress and take an oath to uphold the Constitution. Even the strongest advocates for this bill before the hearing in the Judiciary Committee testified that if we believe that a bill is unconstitutional before us, we are obligated to uphold our oath and vote ``no'' regardless of how much we might support the underlying policy. That is the stand that I take on this issue, Mr. Speaker. 
   I would declare this to be the first round, one step along the way in the D.C. statehood bill. But the discussion that has been here on the floor and the exchange and the colloquy with Mr. Dreier on Article I, section 2, article I, section 3 and then the reference was brought up also of article I, section 8, to address those, it works just like this: Article I, section 2 reads: ``The House of Representatives shall be composed of Members chosen every second year by the people of the several States.'' 
   Now, if D.C. is not a State, we can't have Members that come from places that are not States. It's a pretty simple analysis here. Read the Constitution. It also says in the bill that this doesn't include Senators. That was an amendment that was offered by the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Westmoreland). Statutory provisions aren't constitutional restraints. By the same rationale, and I mean exactly the same rationale that you can come to a conclusion that there could be a Member in this Congress that votes in full representation for D.C., you have to also conclude that there is a constitutional provision for two Senators as well, because I will argue that Article I, section 3, after the 17th amendment is applied to it reads this way: ``The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State elected by the people thereof.'' So the only  distinction between a District Representative, a Member in the House, and two Senators is the phrase ``by the people of the several States'' as applied to the Member and ``elected by the people thereof'' as applied to the Senators. 
   This is imperative and compelling. So if you accept a Member here constitutionally, you also accept two Senators here by the same constitutional rationale. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RENEWABLE FUELS -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate being recognized and the privilege to address you here on the floor of the United States Congress this evening. And I appreciate the previous speaker, who has brought up the issue of renewable fuels and the overall energy situation that America is addressing here. And this dialogue has got to be expanded and continued, and so this input that comes from the gentleman from Maryland is an essential part of our discussion and our debate. I know that when Professor Bartlett digs up some scientific information and lays it out here for us, we know that it is well researched and it is well founded and well grounded, and that it becomes a significant part of the overall debate. 
   And I would add some more things to this overall debate as we talk about energy and then, perhaps, Mr. Speaker, I will move into some other issues as well that are of important concern to the American people. 
   On this energy that we are dealing with, I have continually heard from the other side of the aisle, well, we can't drill in ANWR. I haven't heard why. We can't drill in the outer continental shelf. I haven't heard why. 
   I have heard that we have to conserve energy. I think that is good, but it is hard to do that without having the proper financial incentives in place. And one thing we haven't done is reward the companies for doing the exploration, particularly, the exploration for American oil, Mr. Speaker. 
   And so, as I look at this overall picture, I will submit this scenario that we need to do, and that is, we must grow the size of the energy pie, this overall circle pie chart that we use that is the 100 percent model. And in there are the components we have today called gasoline, diesel fuel, coal, natural gas, nuclear power, hydroelectric, solar, wind; the list goes on of those components, some hydrogen. But it is a smaller size of supply than we need, and that is why our energy prices are high. And that is linked with the rest of the world, certainly. 
   But here in the United States, we need to be looking at this from the perspective of reducing and eventually eliminating our dependence upon Middle Eastern oil. That is essential that we do that because the funds that are going into Middle Eastern oil, when we are buying oil on the market, those funds, some of them, end up in the hands of our enemies, in the hands of the terrorists, in the hands of the Islamic jihadists. And that is the strongest incentive to becoming more dependent upon domestic energy and less dependent on Middle Eastern energy. 
   But additionally, our balance of trade goes the wrong way for us. When we are importing energy from overseas in places like the Middle East, that transfers the wealth of the United States over to and puts it into the countries of the Middle East. And so our approach here needs to be the expansion and the continued promotion of these energy supplies that we have that we can develop here in the United States. 
   The most obvious of those are the biodiesel components, which have been expanding rapidly here in the United States, and particularly in Iowa and particularly in Iowa's Fifth Congressional District, the western third of the State. We are now and have been for some time the number one congressional district out of all 435 in biodiesel production. And that biodiesel production comes from animal fats and soybeans, and the extraction of that processed into diesel fuel, that has proven to be a very effective and reliable, and much of it a biodegradable type of a fuel, much more environmentally friendly than the diesel fuel that is on the market that comes out of the sands of Saudi Arabia, for example. And so our leadership there in the biodiesel production needs to be expanded, and we are on a track to do that. 
   We are also, in the district that I represent, ranking number two of the 435 Congressional districts in ethanol production. By some time this year, in 2007, we will be number one in ethanol production. That will rank us first in the Nation in ethanol production of the 435 congressional districts, and also first in the Nation in biodiesel production. 
   We rank currently today about fourth or at least tied for fourth in wind generation of electricity. That will go up to at least second time this year, and perhaps it will be first.  
   But some of the things that we are creating here is an intellectual property, Mr. Speaker, a knowledge base that, of the billions of dollars of capital that we have poured into renewable energy, primarily in the ethanol and the biodiesel, but also in the wind generation of electricity, that capital investment produces the energy out of our crops and out of our wind. But additionally, we are building a knowledge base, an understanding of what enzymes work best, what practices work best. We are squeezing more ethanol out of a bushel of corn than we have ever squeezed out of there before, and we will soon be up to that 3 gallons a bushel of ethanol production. And as the enzymes get better and the process gets better, we will also be able to extract ethanol out of the cellulosic, which is about any kind of plant product that is made out of cellulose and other products as well. But that would be the primary ones. 
   And as we develop our skills, I run into people around the country, especially in our hearings for agriculture, and they will come up to me and say, really, the future for our energy is in ethanol. We need to learn how to do that. We need to go to Brazil and see how they make ethanol in Brazil. And my response to that is, why don't you come to Iowa, see how we make ethanol in Iowa? I have been to Brazil to see their operations down there. They need to come to Iowa to see how we make ethanol in Iowa. 
   And, in fact, the United States has surpassed Brazil in ethanol production. They make most of theirs out of sugar cane. We make most of ours out of corn. But we passed up Brazil a couple of years ago in overall gallon production of ethanol. 
   And Iowa produces 26 percent of the ethanol that is produced in the entire country. And our plants are far more modern than those that you see in Brazil. Technology a little different because there they will some days make sugar out of the sugar cane when the market is right, and other days they make ethanol out of the sugar cane. But ours are still far more modern. We conserve energy. We have got efficiencies there. We have software packages that manage and control the flow of all the operations within the plant. We have one or two people sitting there monitoring that 24/7. But an impressive combination of technology and people and know-how pulled together. 
   And I often, Mr. Speaker, use the model of how Texas was the place where they discovered oil. And among the places, and Texas produced a lot of the oil back starting in the teens to some degree, but more like the 1920s and the 1930s. And as they, the boom State of Texas hit oil, and they began to develop and produce oil and distribute and refine it and distribute it around the country, they also developed the skills, the skills and the expertise of deeper drilling and other ways to extract oil out of the formations, fishing skills to fish broken bits out of wells, Red Adair's oil well firefighters, some of those examples, and then of course the seismic technology and all of the things that go along to making an oil industry profitable. 
   Well, as the oil began to play out in Texas, the expertise kept growing, and there is a tremendous amount of wealth in Texas that comes from the intellectual property that has been created, the common knowledge or the knowledge base that has been built. 
   We are doing the same thing in the Midwest in the renewable fuels category, Mr. Speaker. And as that knowledge base grows, there will be people that are brought up, educated in, work in and nurtured within this epicenter of renewable fuels that we are today in the neighborhood that I have the privilege to represent. And as they look around, they will move outside the area, and they will begin to add their skills to ethanol biodiesel production plants that move out to the limits of the corn belt and the soybean belt. 
   And as that happens, there will be, of course a center of knowledge, a center of technology and people, can-do people with know-how, that emanate from the epicenter of renewable fuels. That is a big future, I believe, for us. And that is one component in this overall energy pie that we need to grow. 
   So as we grow our ethanol production from corn and grow our biodiesel production from mostly animal fats or mostly soybeans, but also animal fats, that would be a processing product that comes from our plants. As that grows, we also are looking at developing the cellulosic ethanol, and that can come from any kind of plant. And we are 5 to 6 years away from being able to produce the cellulosic ethanol in the kind of volume where we can see how we might be able to add a lot more gallons to the overall supply of gasoline type products that are consumed on our vehicles on the roads.     
   And yet where we are, that cellulose comes in the form of corn stalks and cane products and switch grass and the list goes on, wood chips. Anything that has plant and fiber in it is cellulose that can be converted into ethanol. So we don't know to the extent that that will be built out across the country, but I believe this: I think you can draw circles on the map in the corn belt where there will be ethanol plants and they will draw corn from those areas. And then there will be other circles where the biodiesel plants draw soybeans particularly or else extracted oil from soybeans into that area. And the gaps, I think, get filled with cellulosic. And there will also be dual crops that come out at least for some time that convert the shell corn into ethanol and the corn stalks into cellulosic ethanol. That kind of thing will happen too to the extent that the economics will drive this. 
   Capital makes good decisions on where it goes. It will always being attracted to where there is profit. It will always shy away from places where there isn't profit. And right now the capital is being attracted to the renewable fuels. That is a piece of this overall energy pie, and the size of the piece that is ethanol today and renewable fuels needs to get bigger. 
   Also, we look out on the Outer Continental Shelf. There are 406 trillion cubic feet of natural gas that we know of offshore, a lot of that offshore in Florida. We opened up a tiny little sliver of that, I think it was Lease 181, to allow for a little more drilling way offshore in Florida, but we are wasting or ignoring a tremendous resource where we should be down there tapping into that massive supply of natural gas, pumping it into our markets here because of the foundation for a lot of our production in our plants, particularly plastic production, is in natural gas, is in feedstock, as well as natural gas is a feedstock for commercial fertilizer, and the control of that fertilizer will also be part of the control for the overall food production in the United States. 
   So it is essential that we keep at an economic and I will even say a cheap supply of natural gas on the markets. And it is foolish for us to ignore the supply that we have and not be out here extracting that natural gas out from underneath the seabed. There has never been a spilled natural gas that had any environmental damage. It has always been one of the safest things that we can do and certainly one of the cleanest things that we can do. Natural gas is a wonderful product, and that natural gas needs to be put into our markets to keep our fertilizer costs down, to keep our production costs down, and to be used more sparingly in the production of electricity because that is a higher cost type of an item, and that can be done more with coal or with clean burning coal. 
   And we need to also be expanding our energy use beyond the natural gas. We should look at our domestic supplies of crude oil, and offshore there is also a significant amount of domestic supplies of crude oil. One of the largest fields discovered is southwest of New Orleans, offshore in the Gulf of Mexico. And that supply down there, that find that is discovered by Chevron, can be something that will rival and perhaps exceed one of the large finds up on the North Slope. But the North Slope needs to be opened up too, and I mean specifically ANWR, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. That is an area up there that if God was going to put oil somewhere that we ought to go get that is not going to impact on very many species or on human population, that, Mr. Speaker, is the place. 
   I have traveled up there, and I have looked at the fields in ANWR. I looked at the oil that is developed on the North Slope of Alaska. And I can see, and I don't think there is a disagreement, that it has been a very environmentally friendly development that  took place up there in the 1970s, and we can do better yet just a little ways to the east in a similar type of a terrain, because we have the technology to allow us to do directional drilling. So we can sit in one spot and we can drill in an area out in multiple directions and extract that oil in a single location with a very minimal footprint on the area up there in ANWR. 
   There is no justifiable reason not to tap into that. Whatever the promise happened to be back in the 1970s that some people here on the floor of the House have said, well, there was a promise that we would never drill in ANWR or we would never let you drill in the North Slope, well, I don't know who made that promise. I don't see that that promise is in law. I know it is not in the Constitution. But even if it is in law, and I don't believe it is, Mr. Speaker, one legislature, one Congress can't bind a succeeding Congress. They can't make a decision in 1970 that keeps us from doing the right thing in 2007. 
   And our Founding Fathers would have never taken a position like that. So whoever thinks that they have been disenfranchised by a promise shouldn't have been willing to accept that kind of promise back in the 1970s, if it was ever made. But what would we get out of that, foolishly hanging on to somebody's idea that because it is called the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge that somehow we can't have a little spot there that is equivalent of a postage stamp on a football field to go set a rig there, drill some holes in the ground, and pull that back out and only have a little rock pad about 50 feet wide by 100 feet long that even Dennis Kucinich wouldn't recognize as an oil field except you would have to take him up there and show him. And that is the case for many people that oppose drilling up there. 
   The oil is there. It is there for a reason. We need to dump it on our market and do it now. A million barrels a day could be coming back down into this market here in the United States, and that is a million barrels a day that we wouldn't be drawing out from Middle Eastern oil, and the profit from that million barrels a day would not be going into the hands of jihadists or potential jihadists or neighbors to jihadists. It would be going into American companies, and it would be saving money in the pockets of the American people, Mr. Speaker. 
   And those are two logical things that we need to do: drill the Outer Continental Shelf for oil and gas everywhere that we can find it, go up to ANWR and drill up there because we have already found it. We know it is there. 
   And so those two are simple commonsense inarguable points that can only be addressed in opposition by emotionalism and hyperbole, not by rational logic or empirical data. 
   And as we look across at the rest of the energy that we need to produce, we are doing a great job with the wind energy. We have got the wind chargers pumping out electricity. One thing about it, the air really never gets where it wants to go. It keeps traveling around this globe. And we can harness that tremendous amount of energy, and we do so, and turn it into generated electricity, a very clean, a very safe supply of energy. I am glad to see those tall surrealistic windmills churning out all at an identical speed, pumping electricity down through the cables into the ground and on off to our customers. That is a very gratifying thing. 
   And we would have difficulty, with the political climate that we face today, in expanding our hydro-electricity capability. Whether we can do that or 
   not, I would like for any opportunities and be supportive of the rational ones, but we must keep alive the hydroelectric generation of electricity that is taking place across this country. That is some of the cheapest electricity that we have and some of the safest electricity that we have and some of the most environmentally friendly electricity that we have. 
   We will have flood control projects on these rivers, or we will have bottoms flooded out continually and, since we built those, particularly Pick-Sloan on the Missouri River when you take advantage of the gravity situation of the water dropping down off of the dams down through the generation plants. 
   Another place that we need to expand is going to be our nuclear capability. I don't believe we built a new nuclear plant, nuclear electrical generating plant, in the United States since the mid-1970s. And yet statistically nuclear power is by far the safest form of electricity that we have that we can generate. If you want to count the accidents, the fatalities, all the records about the safety of nuclear stand up to support that nuclear is safer than any other. And when you look across the world in places like France, we make a little fun of the French, but they made a good decision on their electricity. They have a different kind of demand than we have, different levels of resources. But their prudent decision sets up nuclear plants in France, and 78 percent of their electricity is generated by nuclear plants. 
   To the extent that we can generate more electricity with nuclear, that would take the load off the natural gas that is being used in particularly these new plants where they are burning natural gas to generate electricity. That, I believe, is an imprudent path to go down, to build generating plants that plan to burn natural gas, especially if you are doing so in States like Florida that oppose drilling off their own shores where there is gas sitting there in massive quantities but still are building gas-fired generating plants across the State of Florida. Those things add to the negative and make it harder for us. 
   And I know that there are States that have an ability and a confidence that they can produce cleaner burning coal, and coal-fired generators have been a very effective and efficient way to generate electricity, the base plants in particular, and there is coal that is hauled all across this country by rail from Wyoming all the way to Georgia, if I remember right, 16 million tons going into Georgia out of Wyoming coal because that is the most economical way they can generate electricity in those areas in Georgia that receive that coal from up in the Powder River Basin in Wyoming. 
   But the point is to continually grow the size of this energy pie, put more Btus on the market. One of those pieces of the pie needs to be conservation, to save the part that we are wasting, and then expand the size of the pie for the renewable so that there is more ethanol, more biodiesel, more wind-generated electricity, nuclear-generated power, more base plants for coal-fired generating plants and other means that we can use more coal; and in the process of doing that, we have taken the pressure off. There will be less pressure on gasoline, on diesel fuel, on the places we are most vulnerable, from the Middle Eastern oil and Middle Eastern energy. 
   That is the path we need to follow, Mr. Speaker, and I believe that is the path that is mostly going to be consistent with that that was presented by the gentleman from Maryland who spoke just ahead of me. 
   But I wanted to talk about the energy issue in the beginning because I intend to, in what is left of this presentation this evening, Mr. Speaker, talk about how we fix our problems here in the United States, how we address our global problems. And I have addressed the energy issue. And when we have cheap energy, we are going to have at least a foundation for a strong economy. That is why energy is important. We can't be hostage to other countries. We can't have someone else draining the profit and the lifeblood off of the workers of Americans by pocketing high profits because they happen to be sitting in a place where there is a lot of energy supply themselves with low input costs. That is the case today with Middle Eastern oil. That is why I raise the energy issue. 
   The second thing that matters is how we deal with our foreign relations. We are vulnerable to Middle Eastern oil today. Some 60 percent or more of our oil is imported from overseas. And whether you take that directly from places like Saudi Arabia or Iran or Iraq, other countries there in the Middle East, Kuwait, for example, or whether you buy it from the Canadians, and we don't have much access to markets from the Russians, but from the western shore of Africa, wherever that oil comes from, you are taking it from the world market, the overall supply of oil in the world market. And if you do that, it is essentially the equivalent of purchasing the Middle Eastern oil. And when that happens, of  course, as I said two or three times, that money gets into the hands of Islamic jihadists. 
   And so today we are in a global war against terror and these terrorists are Islamic jihadists. They live scattered across most continents, if not all continents. There are enclaves there, cells where they are training and planning to attack us. They believe they are called by Allah to kill us because they label us as infidels. It says so in their Koran. 
   Thomas Jefferson bought a Koran or acquired a Koran, and in there he studied it so he that he could begin to understand the Islamic enemy called the Barbary pirates. And the language is the same. It says the same thing today, and the extremists believe that directs them to kill the people that they define as infidels and infidels being described as nonbelievers in their religion.     
   So, that is the root of this belief. They believe they are commanded to fall upon us and attack us with every stratagem of war and to continue doing so until such time as the infidels either convert or pay tribute. 
   That was their demand at the beginning of the wars with the Barbary pirates that began in 1784. That war, the long-lasting war with the Barbary pirates, with the same kind of philosophical enemy and nearly same location, that lasted over 30 years, by my calculation 32 years before it was wrapped up. In fact, it may have been a little longer than that. 
   The resistance finally stopped in 1830 when the French went in and occupied Algiers. We did our part up to that period of time. It is my recollection the United States was in combat about 32 years, or through a drawn-out war for 32 years, about 6 years of intense combat through that period of time, beginning in 1784, the year after hostilities with the British ceased. 
   So this is not anything new for us. We just need to go back and read our history and understand that they believe they have to kill us, that that is their religious belief to do so. And Thomas Jefferson said so. All we had to do was read Jefferson. He studied. It reflects today about the enemy we are up against. 
   Now, this even my needs to have some bases to operate from. They had a base to operate from in Afghanistan. The Taliban and the al Qaeda working with the Taliban, they need anarchy. They need a failed state, a state that doesn't have the rule of law, that doesn't have security, that has a collapsed economy, a place where they can operate freely. They had done so with the Taliban, working with al Qaeda in Afghanistan. 
   When September 11 came, we went to Afghanistan and put an end to their terrorist camp. When it came time to liberate Iraq, it was a similar motive. And we know that al Qaeda has always seen Iraq since the victorious liberation in Afghanistan, they have always seen Iraq as the central battlefield in this global war on terror, Mr. Speaker. 
   So, this is the nature of our enemy. And wherever we fight them, they populate most of the continents all around the globe. We have seen the second generation Pakistanis rise up in Great Britain and turn around and plot to and ultimately attack the British people, their hosts in Great Britain. Those kind of cells exist in the United States, they exist in many countries of the world, and that is some of the nature of the enemy we are up against. 
   So, how do we deal with this kind of enemy? We have addressed it to the extent that we brought a measure of freedom to Afghanistan. We are surely not done there. There is more violence there in the last year, not less. That is a bad sign. We are more aggressive than we have been in the past, not less. That is a good sign. And we have NATO in there now working directly with us, and that is also a very good sign. They have started a spring offensive, and that is going to keep al Qaeda back on their heels. But we may not for a long, long time put this enemy a way to where they quit attacking us. 
   They don't really have a head leader. They don't have a capital city. They don't have a definable military that we can attack and destroy. But they do attack us with whatever they have, with the resources that they have, and we know that they are in Iraq in significant numbers and we have been fighting there, along with somewhere between five and eight different factions that are engaged in the violence there in Iraq. 
   But the most pervasive concern that I have, Mr. Speaker, is that Iran has been fighting a proxy war against the United States in Iraq. I have known for approximately 2 years that the Iranians were funding the insurgency there, that they were making munitions, that they were shipping those munitions into Iraq, that they were training and supporting the insurgency in Iraq and committing and fighting a proxy war against the United States within Iraq, from Iran. 
   Yet the information that we had at the time wasn't quite solid enough to go public, not quite solid enough to accuse the Iranians of what I have known for 2 years they were doing. But today we know. We know they have infiltrated people, military personnel and trainers into Iraq. We know that they are making sophisticated devices to knock out our armored personnel carriers and our tanks and armored Humvees. And we have had at least 170 Americans who have been killed because of these devices, these sophisticated improvised explosive devices. That is an act of war against the United States troops that is taking place in Iraq at the hands of the Iranians. 
   Now, the downside, the worst case scenario of this is, as I listened over on this side of the aisle a couple of weeks ago, 2 1/2 weeks ago when we had our debate about the resolution that did this contradictory thing, respected the troops and opposed their mission, a disgraceful debate that we had on the floor, but many Members on that side of the aisle said it is a civil war, that we should get out, we should not be engaged in a civil war. 
   First of all, Mr. Speaker, it is not a civil war in Iraq. There is not a force in Iraq that is seeking to unseat and depose and replace the duly elected democratic government of Iraq. You have not heard that out of the mouths of the leaders of the insurgencies that are there. They are not there to destroy the government in Iraq. So, that is rule number one. If they are not trying to depose the government, probably it is a pretty good sign it is not a civil war. 
   Rule number two is there are hundreds of thousands of Iraqis in uniform today that are defending and fighting for Iraqis. These uniformed Iraqi military and security personnel are not choosing up sides to shoot at each other. If they did that, we would maybe have a definition of a civil war. So, since the Iraq military and the Iraq security personnel are not fighting against each other, but they are fighting to provide security in Iraq, that says there is not a civil war. Because no one is trying to depose the legitimate government of Iraq, that says it is not a civil war. 
   So that puts the argument I think away on that. You can argue there is unrest, and there is, and there are 
   fighting factions that are competing against each other for power in a relative vacuum in some of the areas, but that doesn't constitute a civil war. 
   But even if it were, Mr. Speaker, I would point out the United States has engaged in a number of civil wars to try to put down the kind of unrest and been successful to some degree. One of those places would be in Kosovo. We have been in there now for more than 10 years. We have suppressed a civil war there and saved a lot of lives and had a measure of safety because of that. 
   So, it is not a civil war, but if it were, that is not a reason not to be there, Mr. Speaker. There is a very good reason to be there, and I will point out that very good reason, and that is the Iranian hegemony is pervasive in Iraq. They are bonded with and are a powerful, strong influence with the two largest Shia organizations in Baghdad and the areas outside and south of Baghdad, all the way to the southern border. 
   The Shia region of Iraq would be taken over by the influence of the Iranians. If we pulled out of there, the Iranians would fill that vacuum. Yes, there would be some fighting amongst the other factions, but I believe the Iranians fill that vacuum. 
   If the Iranians fill the vacuum through their relationships with the  Shia leaders that they have already been nurturing and funding and supporting, one of them would be Moqtada al-Sadr, who has absconded to Iran with his leaders, with the commanding officers of his militia, if that happened, those people get propped up. Sadr gets propped up, Hakeem gets propped up, and the Iranian influence gets ahold of the 70 to 80 percent of the oil in Iraq that is in the area of the Shias today. Maybe eventually all of it, but almost immediately they get their hands on 70 to 80 percent of the Iraqi oil. 
   Mr. Speaker, if that happens, then you have the Iranians sitting there where their cash boxes will be flushed, their war chest be full. They will be overflowing with cash. They will be able to will buy any kind of nuclear power that they want to buy, any kind of nuclear material they want to buy. They will be able to accelerate and buy more centrifuges and process fuel and develop nuclear weapons at a faster pace, and they aren't far from having that accomplished now. 
   They will be able to develop a means to delivery that nuclear capability in the form of missiles, and if they aren't able to develop that technology there in Iran, they can pay for it and accelerate their research to get that done. If they aren't, they can turn around and buy that on the open market somewhere, the means to deliver, from places like North Korea, which has demonstrated a propensity for marketing off their nuclear capability. 
   But I think we are not many years away from Iran having a nuclear capability. And a cash flush Iran with a nuclear capability and a means to deliver it doesn't mean it just threatens Tel Aviv, Mr. Speaker. It isn't just that Ahmadinejad has declared that he wants to annihilate Israel. That is a big deal. They are the only democracy in the Middle East, aside from Iraq today. But Ahmadinejad has vowed to destroy Israel and the United States. 
   But those missiles and that nuclear capability that they would acquire if we withdraw from that area would give them also the ability to reach Western Europe, the ability one day not very far down the line to reach the United States, and it becomes a far more difficult equation for us to deal with. 
   This time, this place, right now, is the opportune time to resolve the issue of the conflict in the Middle East. We have invested blood and treasure, precious blood and valuable treasure, and we owe it to the memories of those who have committed their lives and given their lives to this cause to get the issue resolved in Iraq. 
   We are far from not being able to win there, and anyone who thinks that this is a difficult military situation hasn't read back through American history to see some of the circumstances that we have come out of in the past, Mr. Speaker. 
   But thinking of the concept of a cash-flush Iran with their hands on the valve that controls 42.6 percent of the exportable world's oil supply, control of Straits of Hormuz, to be able to fill their coffers up with cash until they overflow, buy their nuclear capability and buy their missiles as a means to deliver it, and then look around the world and say, well, I am called upon by Allah to annihilate you infidels, and I want to start with the Israelis over here, so what I am going to do is maybe not fire off the missile right away, because it might start off a kind of a nuclear firestorm. I will just turn down the valve on the oil and starve the Americans out. 
   Think what happens Mr. Speaker, if as vulnerable as we are to imported Middle Eastern oil, if we let Ahmadinejad crank down that valve at the Straits of Hormuz and shut down or shut off 42.6 percent of the world's marketable oil supply. It wouldn't take anywhere near that amount to bring this economy in the United States to its knees, because we are too dependent. 
   If they did that, and our economy would shrink down into at least a recession, most likely a severe depression, and us going into a recession or depression immediately impacts China, China is dependent upon our economy because we are buying a lot of their goods, and China is also dependent upon foreign oil to provide energy for their growing demand that they have. They have a voracious appetite for oil and they are reaching out across the world to purchase more and more oil reserves and find ways to keep that oil flowing into their country. 
   But if Ahmadinejad gets his hands on that oil, that 70 to 80 percent of the Iraqi oil, and flush with cash cranks that valve down on the world's exportable oil supplies, the United States economy could be pushed into a collapse, Mr. Speaker. The Chinese economy could be pushed into a collapse, Mr. Speaker. And the winner would be Iran, who into have free sailing all over the Middle East, and the winner would also be Russia, who has a tremendous supply of oil. They would become more and more cash flush, more and more rich, more and more able to buy the things that strengthen them militarily. 
   This equation that I have described, Mr. Speaker, describes why Putin in Russia has been taking a more and more belligerent posture as the weeks and months unfold. He sees this chess game folding out on the world's chess board. I don't know why we can't see it here in the United States Congress, Mr. Speaker. But that is the reality we are faced with in that scenario. 
   So, we must put our cross hairs on the Iranian nuclear capability today. We must say to them, you will never be a nuclear powered country, you will never have a military means to have nuclear power and a means to deliver it, and we have made a decision that that won't happen here in the United States and we are going to go through every diplomatic channel possible, try every kind of sanction, every kind of blockade, every kind of diplomacy that we can, to convince Iran they should stop, back off, dismantle their nuclear effort. But that would be the only option for them. The other option would be to eliminate their endeavor to become a military nuclear power.     
   That is where the negotiations need to start in Iraq. Iran has to back off. They need to understand that their involvement in the proxy war against the United States and Iraq accelerates the day when they will, with a thunderous response, lose their nuclear capability should they persist down this path they are heading down. 
   That is where the crisis is today. But the people in Iran have something to say about what kind of a country they are. And they have something to say about what kind of country they will become. 
   I am hopeful that the people in Iran will look at their leader, who appears to be an unstable and very much a vindictive, violent man, and come to the streets of Iran and find a way to replace him with someone who can bring Iran back into the 21st century so they can become a moderate, Islamic state that can deal with science and technology and education and use their oil wealth to help support the people in the country rather than the kind of violence being planned by Ahmadinejad. 
   That will help a lot, if Iran should become a free country. For example, Afghanistan today is a free country. Iraq today is a free country. Iran sits in the middle. They are a geographical link between the two. If Iran can be flipped over and become a regime-change free country, we will have the core of the Middle East, the center for the kind of Islamic jihadists that are coming after us from around the world, after Western civilization itself. The center would become a free territory where there are far less odds that they would be raising the jihadists that they are in the environment that they have today. 
   There would still need to be some things done in the mountains of Pakistan and within Saudi Arabia. There needs to be things done in Great Britain, for that matter; but that would take us a long way towards a final victory in the global war on terror. And being able to eliminate real estate and places where they could train and foster terrorism would be an essential key in a final victory against these Islamic jihadists. 
   Mr. Speaker, I have spoken to the issue of energy and why we have to do something about energy, and that is take the money out of the hands of our enemies and put it into the hands and the control of the American people. But at the same time, we must succeed in the Middle East. We have come this far. We are very, very close to being able to see an Iraq that can be an ally, a trading ally, a military ally, a partner that will see us as a friend to them in the Middle East.  
   It has been a precarious path that we have followed. I believe it has been the right path when you look back and ask the question: What did you know and when did you know it? 
   You can argue each side of everything, but where we are today is where we are. We must move forward and succeed. The military situation there is not a crisis. It is not precarious, but we do have a situation where there is far too much violence there; and a strategy which has been driven by our President, what is commonly called ``the surge,'' has reduced the casualties in Baghdad and divided Baghdad into nine different sections to where it is far easier to control the smuggling of arms and devices between regions in the city. 
   If we can resolve that in Iraq, and I believe we will get there if we don't lose our resolve here, then we have taken a giant step forward. As we become less dependent on Middle East oil, the United States gets back on stable footing again. 
   Now, we have a situation also, though, where it is not just that we are purchasing foreign oil, and that is working against us in our balance of trade. In addition to that, we are importing more and more goods from foreign countries and our trade deficit has gone up from 2 years ago, $617.7 billion in our trade deficit. Last year it was $725 billion. This year, the number usually comes out in February, but the trend has been for our trade deficit to increase about 20 percent a year. I think we can look to expect that is going to happen, and we will see a trade deficit in the $800 billion or more category, Mr. Speaker. 
   Now, there are those who are not concerned about the trade deficit. They say as long as we can buy cheap products built by cheap labor, we should not be concerned. And they will say because we are deficit spending, we shouldn't be concerned about borrowing money from the Chinese bank, for example. 
   Well, I would ask those people who are so confident as money shifts in this direction, what would be your ideal kind of economy? Why wouldn't you start with an ideal, lay out the metric for the ideal economy, and then try to achieve the ideal? 
   I would submit it this way. I would like to have a balance of trade. I would like to not be buying more than we are selling. Any business can think of it in those terms. If you are in business and you are producing $100,000 worth of product a year and are selling that out on the open market, and you turn around and you are buying back $110,000 worth of product, it is easy to see you are going in the red. That is how the trade deficit works. There are currencies that change that equation some, and there is credit that changes that, and the credit on our capital; but I would want to ideally start with a balance in trade, and then work to have an export surplus because the wealth comes back to the United States and we would hold their collateral. That would be one thing. 
   I would want to have a balanced budget here in the United States. I would want to spend no more than I take in. I am different than the PAYGO argument that comes here because I think we have to keep taxes low so we have a vibrant economy that has an incentive. 
   We did that. In 2001 and 2003, we did two rounds of tax cuts. That saved our economy from an inevitable recession and perhaps a depression that came from the bursting of the dot-com bubble about the time President Bush took office, and it also came from the September 11 attacks, which we know about, the money we had to spend to set up homeland security and the billions of dollars to protect ourselves, and also the billions of dollars we had to spend militarily to take our fight to the enemy. 
   But this economy needs to be a strong economy. It needs to be healthy and vibrant. I am for balanced trade, perhaps with an export surplus; and I am for a balanced budget, and I am for paying off the national debt. I think we need to do all of that in the form of reducing the demand on discretionary spending in the United States, by setting up the long-term reform of Social Security and Medicare so that growing entitlement funds can be shrunk down, because as it grows, there is going to be nothing left in the budget except Medicare and Medicaid and the interest on our national debt. 
   It is always easier to fix the problem earlier than later before it becomes a crisis. We didn't have the political will to do that a couple of years ago when President Bush went across the country and gave speech after speech promoting the reform of Social Security. That needs to be done some time. It will happen when the young people start to come forward and start to have their voice heard, along with the senior citizens in America. 
   But this budget needs to be balanced. We need to end up with a surplus and collect more than we spend and use that to pay down our national debt. Some of that 
   happened. It happened up until the September 11 attacks. That took us out of the balanced budget that was there. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is time to get back to it. One of the ways we can do that is not with a gimmick; it is with a total tax reform. The most aggressive organization we have for an agency in America, the one that goes out and really does their job is the Internal Revenue Service. They collect that money that they have due. They are effective and efficient at it. 
   We have a Tax Code that is more pages than I can remember, and more complicated than anybody can comprehend. And that Tax Code is the best Tax Code that money can buy. K Street here in Washington, D.C. and the lobby that is here has created this Tax Code by getting their little exemption and their little tax deduction. As this adds up, it gets more complicated and convoluted, and it suppresses the growth in our economy, Mr. Speaker. 
   So what we need to do is look at this Tax Code that we have and say we can't fix this Tax Code. It is beyond anybody's comprehension how to do it, and it is beyond our ability to get it solved politically. The only thing you can do is take the Tax Code and throw it over the side. I would be happy to pitch it into the bay in Boston Harbor and eliminate the Tax Code and never let it grow back again. Also, eliminate the IRS because there is where it would grow, another type of a tax policy that we have today, and go to a national sales tax, a national consumption tax, a fair tax, Mr. Speaker. 
   If we do that, we have changed the entire dynamic of our taxation in America. It works like this: Ronald Reagan once said what you tax you get less of. If we stick with the tax side, what you tax you get less of. What we do here, in our lack of infinite wisdom, is Uncle Sam has a first lien on all productivity in America. 
   If you punch the time clock at 8 in the morning, Uncle Sam wants his money first. You will work there until April 14 or April 15 before he gets his due, and then you can start giving your money to the State and on down the line. After a while, you get to keep some of the fruits of your own labor. 
   But the Federal Government has the first lien on your labor starting the second you go to work anytime. If you pick up the phone and make those extra sales calls for that commission, he has the first lien on that commission. 
   If you invest your money and you collect the interest, maybe passbook savings, Uncle Sam has the first lien on the productivity of your investment. 
   If it is a pension income, if it is Social Security income, if it is capital gains, if it is any kind of productivity at all, your labor, your investment, Uncle Sam has the first lien on all of that productivity. 
   So people make decisions like, I don't think I want to work that extra overtime this week. It is not really worth it because too big of a piece comes out of my check and goes to the Federal Government. I think I'll take the day off. I am going to enjoy life a little bit. After all, I don't get to keep enough of the money I earn. 
   Or, I am not going to expand that extra line in my factory because, after all, I am in a tax bracket that says I can maintain a level of comfort here, so I am not going to take that risk because the reward is not great enough. That is part of the vision that is going on also. 
   I am not going to make the extra phone calls for the extra sales because I don't want to pay the tax. I want to be able to keep the money I earn. 
   That is the mind-set of anyone. The psychology has always been the reason  a controlled economy, a managed society, like, for example, flat out pure communism or European-style socialism, the reason the Soviet Union collapsed was because they did not let people have an incentive to be productive and let them earn and keep the money they made. They took that away from them, and human beings being not as rational as capital is, but human beings being rational, they make those decisions that I talked about, those decisions like, I am not going to put out this effort. 
   You have heard this: from each according to their ability, to each according to their need. That was the belief of Karl Marx and that was the belief of Lenin and that was the belief of Mao Tse-Tung. 
   But the equation that they miss is if you are going to take from a producer according to their ability, and maybe they have the ability to produce five or six times as much as somebody who has the need, why in world would they put out five or six times the productivity of the person who is going to be receiving the fruits of their labor? 
   The answer to that is of course they won't, and of course they don't, and that is why the economies in managed societies like the Soviet Union will collapse because they don't tap into the best instincts of human nature, which is we want to work hard, we want to produce, we want the fruits of our labor. And by the way, if we are allowed to keep the fruits of our labor, we will also contribute and donate and tithe better than any other people on Earth. 
   We do all of that, we need to go to a national sales tax, a consumption tax, so you decide when you pay your taxes. 
   I think there is a Texan here with something boiling up inside him, and I would be very happy to yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Gohmert). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RENEWABLE FUELS -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas for picking up on that. There is a reason why there is a strong affinity between this Western Iowan and this Texan and lot of the Texas delegations. 
   I know that today is the anniversary of the final battle of the Alamo, and I am very much aware of what that means in Texas and across this country. In fact, if you walk into my office, this Iowan's office, framed there is a letter from Colonel Travis. That level of freedom, the Texans reached out for freedom and they had to fight for it a number of times, number of different ways. I like that flag that hangs in Mr. Hensarling's office that shows a picture of the cannon and says, ``Come and take it.'' That is the right kind of attitude. 
   We have this freedom here in America, and there are people here that do not want our freedom, they detest our freedom. They just want to take our lives, and to understand an enemy like that goes beyond the scope of our religious foundation and our beliefs. So I think it is important for us to understand this enemy. 
   I would reflect upon a major from Kentucky whom I spent some time with in the Middle East in the early part of December who said: Thank you for all your prayers. Thank you for the support for our military. We have everything we need. We have the training, the technology. We have the weapons. For men that have to do this job, we have everything we need, but when you pray for us, pray for the American people. Pray that the American people will understand the threat that we are up against, and pray that they will not lose their resolve. We will not lose ours. 
   I think that might be an appropriate time, unless the gentleman from Texas has another remark to make in watching the clock, Mr. Speaker, I would like to close with that thought, that our military is not going to lose their resolve. They understand this enemy that we are against. This Congress needs to understand this enemy we are against. A majority of the American people understand the enemy we are against, and we have a historical time here. 
   We can close the door on the legacy of Vietnam, Lebanon, Mogadishu, and we can build upon the success in Afghanistan, and we can close the situation in Iraq and build upon that success. If we do that, we have a bright and free future. If we fail to do that, every enemy that wants to come after us will come after us. 
   I appreciate again Mr. Gohmert coming down here, the way you engage with your constituents and the way that you bring these values, these American values out of the heartland to flow all the way through the middle part of the United States here. I am proud to serve with the gentleman from Texas, Mr. Speaker, and I am glad to have had the privilege to address you in this chamber. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (PURPLE HEART FAMILY EQUITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - November 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. I thank the gentlewoman for her presentation of H.R. 1119. 
   The Military Order of the Purple Heart of the United States of America was founded in 1932. And as the gentlewoman stated, it goes back to George Washington. It's rich in our heritage, and it's precious in our reference to those who have bled for this Nation and for the freedom of the people here in the United States of America. It was recognized by the Veterans Administration and represents ``veterans in the presentation of claims before the ..... administration,'' this is the Military Order of the Purple Heart, and also ``its service officers are active in veterans hospitals.'' The organization was federally chartered in 1958. 
   Active members of the Military Order of the Purple Heart must be persons of good moral character who have received the Purple Heart for wounds received as a member of the U.S. Armed Forces or for those of any country during military combat against an armed enemy of the United States. 
   The Military Order of the Purple Heart is a sterling organization that provides services to those brave Americans who were wounded defending our country. The order also seeks to promote ``patriotic allegiance to the United States, fidelity to the Constitution and laws of the United States, and the security of civil liberty and the permanence of free institutions.'' And that's all out of their mission. Its goals are ``educational, fraternal, historical, and patriotic, perpetuating the principles of liberty and justice which have created the United States.'' In short, Mr. Speaker, the Military Order of the Purple Heart upholds many of the pillars of American exceptionalism. 
   Parents or lineal descendants of persons eligible to be active members can be associate members of the order. The order has requested that its charter be  amended so that siblings and spouses of members can also become associate members. 
   I am pleased that H.R. 1119, the Purple Heart Family Equity Act of 2007, as amended by the Judiciary Committee, provides that spouses and siblings of persons eligible to be active members of the Military Order of the Purple Heart can become associate members. 
   If I just look at the bill for the sake of clarity, Mr. Speaker, the current law is parents and lineal descendants. This strikes parents and lineal descendants and replaces it with the parents, spouse, and lineal descendants. This is something that has been agreed to and promoted by the members of the Military Order of the Purple Heart, by Republicans and Democrats in the Judiciary Committee. I do not recall opposition to this. I believe one could say that it is clearly without opposition, perhaps unanimous on the Judiciary Committee. 
   I urge adoption of H.R. 1119. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (KENDELL FREDERICK CITIZENSHIP ASSISTANCE ACT -- (House of Representatives - November 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, Specialist Kendell Frederick was a 21-year-old U.S. Army soldier serving in Iraq. He dreamed of becoming an American citizen. He was born in Trinidad and came to this country when he was 15 years old. Specialist Frederick joined ROTC while in high school, and he joined the Army after he graduated. 
   I want to make the point about how important ROTC is in the recruitment of our military personnel and having that available at the high school and also at the college level. And I reflect, as mention was made in the previous debate about the Purple Heart and George Washington, the historians that I talk to point out to me that George Washington most likely received his commission to command the Continental Army outside the gates of Harvard near the commons. And it's interesting also that the ROTC recruiters aren't allowed on that campus. But they were allowed on the campus that recruited Specialist Kendell Frederick. 
   On October 19, 2005, very sadly, Kendell Frederick was killed by a roadside bomb while traveling in a convoy to a base. He was granted U.S. citizenship posthumously, but he never knew that he was an American citizen. Tragically, the very reason that he was in the convoy that day was to get fingerprinted in order to achieve his dream of citizenship. 
   He had been trying to become an American citizen for over a year, having started the process while he was in training. His mother and his sergeant in Iraq tried to help him, but they didn't know the rules. His efforts to become a citizen were thwarted by bureaucratic misinformation and other obstacles. 
   Although he was fighting for our country in Iraq, he was told that he had to have his fingerprints retaken in Maryland. When his mother called 1-800-IMMIGRATION, a USCIS, that is, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, hotline for immigration assistance and tried to explain that he was fighting in the war and could not come home to Baltimore to be fingerprinted, she was told that there was nothing that they could do. Not a very good answer from a government that has people who put their lives on the line for our freedom. 
   This is wrong, Mr. Speaker. And it is intolerable that our soldiers are unable to get correct information, particularly with regard to the citizenship that they fight to defend. They should be given every possible assistance in applying for citizenship. 
   H.R. 2884 provides that a soldier who submits a naturalization application  within 24 months of enlistment can have that application process using the fingerprints that were taken at the time of enlistment. This is a very simple, very commonsense solution, and it's too bad that Congress has to take action on this to get this kind of a thing done, but it is dealt with the kind of compassion for patriotism that I think reflects the Members of this Congress, both sides of the aisle, and the people of this country. 
   Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to support H.R. 2884 to honor Specialist Frederick and all of our permanent resident servicemembers who seek citizenship.     
   I urge my colleagues to support this bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (KENDELL FREDERICK CITIZENSHIP ASSISTANCE ACT -- (House of Representatives - November 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker I yield myself such time as I may consume just for a brief conclusion for this. 
   I want to thank my colleagues for their work on this. I thank the gentleman for coming to the floor to speak up and speak on behalf of Kendell Frederick and the memory and the legacy that he leaves here for us in this country; one of many who stepped forward to defend this country; one of, tragically, too many who lost their lives. And his life has contributed in a number of ways, one of them being the freedom that he helped to protect and the safety and security of the American people, and another, always this legacy of this bureaucratic snafu that will, I pray, forever be straightened out by this bill, the Kendell Frederick bill. 
   So I urge adoption of this bill, and I thank my colleagues. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - August 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from Georgia for yielding. 
   I listened attentively to the other gentleman from Georgia, who spoke with such confidence and authority on the Davis-Bacon wage scale. I may be the only Member of Congress, I know of no others, who has earned Davis-Bacon wages and paid Davis-Bacon wages, and I have lived underneath that for over 30 years, 28 years writing paychecks, over 14 consecutive months meeting payroll. I know what this does. 
   But I can tell you the history of it also goes back to an Iowan, an Iowan President, as the gentleman said, Herbert Hoover. 
   But this is the last remaining Jim Crow law on the books that I know of. It was designed to keep blacks out of the construction trade in New York. And I would ask the gentleman from Georgia to join me in helping to start the repeal of this process because this is the aspect of freedom between the employer and the employee. 
   Prevailing wage by definition, union scale in practice, there is no other way  to analyze this. Union scale is what gets produced when the Department of Labor produces the proposed prevailing wage. 
   And when you talk about $4 billion set up for cellulosic and its being a highly sophisticated project, yes, it is; and we build these projects without its being union labor sometimes. If they can compete, we do it with union labor. My former crews have done so, and they are highly skilled and highly trained, and they get paid a wage that often is a 12-month-a-year wage, not something for just the hours they are on the job but wages and benefits so they can make a good wage and stay with you year round. 
   There was over a billion dollars invested in renewable energy in my district last year. There will be over a billion dollars invested this year. We are number one in biodiesel production in America of the 435 districts. We will be number one in ethanol by the end of this year. And there is no way that any other district in the country has a hope of catching up with the Fifth Congressional District of Iowa if you are going to impose Davis-Bacon wage scales on this and burn up at least 20 percent of the capital that will go into this. The cellulosic is experimental, and it is in my neighborhood. We need to invest the dollar as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - August 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Georgia. 
   It's interesting to me how the components of history don't match up the same from what I read and what the other gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Scott) reads. And I've read through a fair amount of this history. 
   But the foundation of the Davis-Bacon wage scale went back to a Federal building contract that was awarded on low bid in New York City. And there was a contractor that brought in labor from Alabama, and it was African American labor from Alabama because they would work cheaper than the union labor in New York City. That's an historical fact. 
   This is a Jim Crow law. And I would appreciate it if the gentleman would join me in repealing it from the books. But it's a practical application today. It's 8-35 percent more money when you go Davis-Bacon wage scale. I average it out to 20 percent. 
   My company, that I sold to my oldest son, has done work on these sites, and we know the costs and we know the skills that are there. And we're developing the skills within our region and our neighborhood because we keep those people 12 months out of the year. They don't always go in and out of the union hall; if they can compete, they do. But we need to develop the skills and intellectual property. We need to develop our fuel so that we aren't importing oil from the Middle East. 
   I urge adoption of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (PROVIDING FOR FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3161, AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - August 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the ranking member from California for yielding and for his leadership on the Rules Committee. That has been an important model leadership for our conference.  
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this modified closed rule for a number of things, but the issues that I may be able to raise in this amount of time is that as the chairman of the Appropriations Committee said, the amendments that are approved under this rule are Republican amendments, but I would point out that those which are adopted under the rule, the self-executing amendments, are not Republican amendments for the most part. 
   I have in my hand an amendment that says ``offered by Mr. Mollohan of West Virginia,'' the one that was the subject of Mr. SESSIONS' remarks that strikes those three earmarks that were in there. 
   Now, they were stricken because, according to the chairman, they were in controversy. Now, this controversy has not been something that has been a large area of discussion here on this floor. But the gentleman from West Virginia has said he is unaware of any investigations. He may be the only one in this Congress that's unaware. 
   I would point out that the Speaker handed the gentleman from West Virginia the gavel to the appropriations subcommittee that he chairs. He held and still holds the purse strings of the agency that's been reported as looking into this that has brought out this controversy.     
   That is why we are here on this. These three earmarks that came from West Virginia from Mr. Mollohan stricken by a self-enacting rule, now is this also going to be the policy in the case on the Department of Defense appropriations bill that comes up? Because there are at least nine earmarks in that bill as well. So these are the consequences of a closed rule. There is friction, there is controversy, there is 4 1/2 hours of debate, which is greatly to the resentment of the gentlelady from Connecticut. 
   But I would say we got through Justice approps through an open rule, and we did so with legitimate debate, and we were here to perfect the legislation, and we did so to the extent and we executed the will of this body. This rule does not execute the will of this body. This rule self-enacts. Vote down the rule. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENSURING MILITARY READINESS THROUGH STABILITY AND PREDICTABILITY DEPLOYMENT POLICY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - August 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank my friend from California for yielding. 
   Mr. Speaker, I listened with interest to this debate. I think I will start with the constitutional side of this and what I believe is a disagreement and maybe a fundamental and real disagreement in the Constitution. 
   I will make this statement, that the Constitution grants Congress the  power to do three things with regard to war: One of them is to declare it, and that is clear; the second one is to raise an Army and a Navy and, by implication, an Air Force, and that is clear; and the third thing is to fund it. But there is nothing in this Constitution that says that we have the authority to overrule the Commander in Chief, nor to micromanage a war. Nor are there any 535 generals that are somehow or another empowered within article I or any other article of the Constitution it. 
   So when the gentleman says that it is a constitutional responsibility of Congress to conduct foreign policy, I would ask, where in this Constitution do you find that? I find that all vested in the powers of the President, where he appoints ambassadors, he sets foreign policy. Yes, with the advice and consent of the Senate on the confirmation, but it is the President's foreign policy, it is the President's State Department, and it is the President's military to command. 
   When we deviate from that, we put ourselves in the condition where our Continental Army was back before we established this Constitution. They knew what was wrong. The Continental Congress was trying to fight a war by consensus, and that is why we have a Commander in Chief, and we must adhere to that. 
   If you really want to give some rest to these troops, don't tell the President what he has to do. He is doing all he can to give our troops all the rest he can. 
   I just came back from there. Expand this standing, active duty military so that they can get some rest. Don't pull them out of the field. And if you are sincere about this, don't limit it to Operation Iraqi Freedom. Expand this globally. If you really mean it, they get tired wherever they are, in Afghanistan, Iraq and wherever they happen to be on the globe. 
   The President knows that. He cares about these troops. I looked him in the eye last week. He is doing everything he can. Everyone is a volunteer, and everyone is a volunteer not just for the military but for this mission. And you cannot separate your support for the troops from support of the mission. You must support their mission. If you are going to ask them to put their lives on the line for us, then you stand for their mission. The least we can do is wait for General Petraeus' report. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (SALUTING THE LIFE AND MUSIC OF THE LATE BO DIDDLEY -- (House of Representatives - June 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this resolution honoring Bo Diddley, the great guitar player and rock and roll musician. 
   He was born Ellas Otha Bates, but he came to be known by the nickname Bo Diddley. It came to be an ironic nickname indeed, and refers to ``nothing at all,'' as in, ``he ain't bo diddly,'' or in my neighborhood, ``you don't know bo diddly.'' 
   Well, far from becoming nothing at all, Bo Diddley started playing in Chicago's South Side and rose to become one of the greatest rock and roll musicians of all time. His song ``Bo Diddley'' became a number one rhythm and blues hit as far back as 1955. Through songs such as ``Who Do You Love,'' he established the now famous Bo Diddley beat, a rumba like sound that mimics the sounds made by street musicians who would pat beats to songs by slapping their arms, legs, chest and cheeks. 
   Bo Diddley headlined above the Rolling Stones. He appeared with the Clash and the Grateful Dead and wrote many crossover hits that appealed to music lovers everywhere. And he was one of the first major male musicians to include a woman in his band. 
   He was inducted in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1987. In 1996, he received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Rhythm and Blues Foundation, and in 1998 from the Grammy  Awards. Rolling Stone magazine listed him at Number 20 on their list of the Greatest Artists of All Time. 
   When Bo Diddley passed away on June 2 at the age of 79, he was surrounded by his friends and family, who sang the gospel song ``Walk Around Heaven.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, I never knew Bo Diddley, but I know he touched my life and that of all of us. Walk around heaven, indeed, Bo Diddley.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (KENDELL FREDERICK CITIZENSHIP ASSISTANCE ACT -- (House of Representatives - June 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, Specialist Kendall Frederick was a 21-year-old U.S. Army soldier serving in Iraq who dreamed of becoming an American citizen. He was born in Trinidad and came to this country when he was 15 years old. Specialist Frederick joined ROTC while in high school--and I would point out there are increasing numbers of high schools that have denied ROTC presence on their campus. Not the case for Specialist Frederick and we are thankful. 
   He joined the Army after he graduated. On October 19, 2005, he was tragically killed by a roadside bomb while traveling in a convoy to a base. He was granted U.S. citizenship posthumously, but he never knew he was an American citizen. Tragically, the very reason that he was in that convoy that day was to get fingerprinted in order to achieve his dream. 
   We know that Kendell Frederick wanted to be an American citizen but bureaucracy stood in his way. He had been trying to become an American citizen for over a year, Mr. Speaker, having started the process while he was in training. 
   His mother and his sergeant in Iraq tried to help him, but they didn't know the rules. His efforts to become a citizen were thwarted by bureaucratic misinformation and other obstacles. 
   While he was fighting for our country in Iraq, he was told that he had to have his fingerprints retaken in Maryland. When his mother called 1-800-IMMIGRATION, it's a USCIS unit, United States Citizenship and Immigration Services hotline for immigration assistance, and tried to explain that he was fighting in a war and was, I should say, tied up at the time, as John McCain might say, he could not come home to Baltimore to be fingerprinted so she was told that there was nothing they could do. 
   This is wrong and this is intolerable that our soldiers are unable to get correct information, Mr. Speaker. They should be given every possible assistance in applying for citizenship. 
   Last year, the House passed H.R. 2884 which provides that a soldier who submits a naturalization application within 24 months of enlistment can have that application processed using the fingerprints that were taken at the time of his enlistment. I supported that bill then which was designed to and does honor Specialist Frederick and all of our lawful permanent resident servicemembers. 
   Today we're considering S. 2516 which is a bill the Senate passed that makes a few technical changes to H.R. 2884. I urge my colleagues to support this bill. It has taken us some time to get this resolved. I trust it will be resolved today in this House, Mr. Speaker, and done so with great gratitude from this Congress and the United States people to Specialist Kendell Frederick and to all of those who have given their lives and parts of their lives and some their limbs for the freedom of this great country. 
   Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (FORMER VICE PRESIDENT PROTECTION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I join my colleagues in strong support of H.R. 5938, the Former Vice President Protection Act of 2008. 
   The Secret Service must be authorized by law or the President to provide protection. Federal law provides Secret Service protection to sitting Presidents and Vice Presidents, former Presidents, their spouses and children, visiting heads of state, Presidential candidates, and other dignitaries. However, the statute does not include former Vice Presidents. 
   For the past 30 years, it has been common practice for former Vice Presidents to receive protection on a temporary basis via a joint resolution of Congress or Presidential memorandum. This temporary protection typically continues for 6 months after the Vice President leaves office. When necessary, Congress or the President has extended this protection for an additional 6 months. 
   H.R. 5938, the Former Vice President Protection Act, makes this routine  practice a permanent authority of the Secret Service. H.R. 5938 amends title 18 to provide statutory protection of former Vice Presidents, their spouses and their children under the age of 16 for the initial 6 months after leaving office. The bill also provides the Secret Service with the authority to reevaluate the need for continued protection in 6-month increments. 
   The permanent authority granted by H.R. 5938 will improve the Secret Service's ability to prepare for the protection of Vice Presidents after they leave office. Preparation for such security takes time and can often overlap administrations. Permanent authority will allow for the development of long-term protection plans. 
   The upcoming change of administrations, not to mention the current threat level, makes permanent statutory authority for the Secret Service to provide such protections even more timely. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (EB-5 REGIONAL CENTER PILOT PROGRAM EXTENSION -- (House of Representatives - June 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself so much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, the investor visa program is designed to attract entrepreneurial talent and capital to the United States and to create American jobs. Under this program, permanent resident visas are available each year to aliens who establish a new business in the United States and invest between $500,000 and $1 million in the business and eventually create at least 10 full-time jobs for American workers. 
   Once the Department of Homeland Security approves an alien business plan, the alien receives conditional permanent residence status. Two years later, the Department of Homeland Security determines whether the above requirements have, in fact, been met. If they have, the alien receives permanent residence. 
   To further encourage economic development, back in 1993, Congress created a temporary pilot program that set aside 3,000 investor visas each year for aliens who invested at least $500,000 in designated regional centers. 
   A regional center is any economic unit, public or private, which is involved with the promotion of economic growth, including increased export sales or improved regional productivity or job creation or increased domestic or capital investment. 
   Further, a regional center shall have jurisdiction over a limited geographical area which shall be described in the proposal and consistent with the purpose of concentrating pooled investment in defined economic zones. 
   The establishment of a regional center may be based on jobs that will be created, directly or indirectly, as a result of such capital investments and the other positive economic effects such capital investments will have. 
   I should acknowledge, Mr. Speaker, that one of the operating pilot projects is the Iowa New Farm Family Project, under which host communities are inviting farm families to establish modern dairy farms in Iowa. 
   And according to Iowa State University, which is our resident authority on the subject matter, ``The project has the potential to enrich Iowa communities with young families who establish value-added agricultural businesses ..... and foster healthy economic development ..... The ..... project,'' which is the Iowa New Farm Family Project, Mr. Speaker, ``creates opportunities to increase the population of rural communities, support agriculture, expand value-added agriculture, and maintain Iowa's existing dairy processing industry.'' That's as described by Iowa State University, the Iowa New Farm Family Project. 
   I want to point out that it has been successful, and it's not just agriculture. It can be urban, too, depending on the region and the zone as it's defined. It has been quite helpful to us in Iowa, and I am grateful for the initiatives that have been taken by Members of this House, Members of the Senate who have not just reached out in support of this legislation but reached out to individuals and helped pave the way through the bureaucratic nightmare to get investors to come into the United States and establish themselves here, where often they will find their economic opportunities have been dried up because of, let's say, capital exchange or regulation. 
   It happens to be the case with our dutch dairy families that come in, that the regulations have gotten so heavy in The Netherlands that they want to continue their skill, their family tradition. 
   I note that the individual that stood at this particular microphone ahead of me was the gentleman from California who has a dairy tradition in his family, and you look back through generations. This establishes a generational linkage, Mr. Speaker, that I'm very grateful for, and it comes at a particularly good time, especially in the Midwest where we are a center for renewable energy. 
   Some 6 or 7 years ago, we had almost no industry to produce ethanol, and yet it began back in about 1978 and it began in my neighborhood in my region. And as the first gallon of ethanol was pumped, it became part of an alternative fuel that had been initiated in the late 1970s, came to fruition about 6 or 7 years ago, and since the time I've come to Congress, it has built such an  industry in my region that we now, the Fifth District of Iowa, are the number one renewable energy producing congressional district in America out of all 435. 
   Because we have the ethanol industry in Iowa, it has been very helpful to our dairy farmers because a byproduct of corn ethanol is the dried distiller strain, or the mash if it comes in a wet form. And the dairy farms have been able to utilize this, as well as anyone has, and it's added value to all of our feed. It's added value to our rough feed, and it's provided a high quality feed which makes it more attractive for our dairy producers to move into the region. 
   So, the pressure that we're under today with $4 gas, and, by the way, I just happened to check a receipt here, and I paid $141 for a tank of gas, $141.52 on Saturday, Mr. Speaker. That's enough money to put into a gas tank, and that was at $3.85. The folks on the west coast that are over $4 a gallon feel this. 
   But what we've done is created a renewable energy industry in the Midwest to help take on some of that burden of providing energy for America. And when we do that, and as of the 2007 crop it hasn't really brought forward the food versus fuel argument. We have produced more corn than ever before, exported more corn than ever before, and still left more corn for domestic consumption than ever before, and we have produced over 9 billion gallons of ethanol. And the byproduct of that 9 billion, you get about a third of the weight of corn out into ethanol. You get a third of the weight of corn that goes into feed for these dairy cows, for example, and about a third of it goes off in CO  
   2. That's the simple breakdown, which I'll go into more detail with perhaps a Special Order that I can get into the details, Mr. Speaker. 
   But I want to point out that we need these dairy farmers in Iowa. The energy situation is actually a plus because $4 gas holds up the price of corn and holds up the price for ethanol and helps make these systems work, and they're feeding the byproduct in a fashion that's producing more milk in the Midwest. We are still today a net importer of milk in a rural State like Iowa. So we can use some more. 
   But the regional center program expires in September. The bill will extend the program an additional 5 years. I think this is a very valuable program, and I support the passage of this bill. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (EB-5 REGIONAL CENTER PILOT PROGRAM EXTENSION -- (House of Representatives - June 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself so much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want to pick up on the point made by the gentlelady from California about this is, of course, not by any means a complete solution to the immigration circumstances, but we agree on some of these points, and on this point of attracting investors to the United States who will invest in businesses that create jobs and create wealth, more importantly create wealth. Without the creation of wealth, there's no money to pay the wages. Companies have to make money. It takes capital of course and it takes labor, it takes ideas, it takes energy, it takes a free market environment and a low regulatory environment. The United States looks better than some of these other countries in the world. 
   This sends the right message here today that this Congress is interested in opening up and laying out the welcome mat, at least in this specific case, where we ask investors to come into the United States under this EB-5 program. 
   Then I would add that there are other interests that we at least philosophically agree on, and one of those is highly skilled immigrants coming into the United States and those that are highly educated. When we can do the calculation on what kind of return we get from someone who comes into the United States as a legal immigrant to work here, to invest here, to start and run a business here, and we can see what they will do from a prosperity perspective, what their contribution will be to the economy and to the society, there are many records that help support that. 
   What we do see, though, Mr. Speaker, is that between 89 and 93 percent of the legal immigration in America isn't based upon merit like this program is.     
   Most of it is based on familial connections, who are you related to, as opposed to what can you do for the United States of America? 
   And I have said for years, we need an immigration policy that's designed to enhance the economic, the social, and the cultural well-being of the United States of America. Every Nation has to have an immigration policy that is for them. And we held a hearing a year or two ago about the point system that some of the countries have established. Canada has one established; the United kingdom is implementing a point system; New Zealand has one; and I believe Australia is looking at one. Those countries come to mind, where they give certain points for certain categories that demonstrate how a person can contribute to society. 
   For example, higher education is one category that offers significant merit. The next one is job skills; so that's earning capacity. Another one is language skills, which says how easily they will be able to assimilate in a society. It's not a barrier not having the language, but it's easier to assimilate, of course, if you are fluent in the language of the host country. 
   And another component is youth. If we bring people in here that are 65 years old, that qualify right away for Social Security and Medicare, of course they're not going to be contributing to our economy. And so I plugged myself into the Canadian equation and found out--I don't think the welcome mat is open for me in Canada because I'm a little over the hill, Mr. Speaker. 
   Youth is a big, important thing because, if you come in at age 22 with a college education, you can contribute to the economy for, let's just say, 43 years before you retire. So youth is an important criteria, as is education, as is job skills, as are language skills. These things are all things that a wise country should reach out for and craft an immigration policy that will enhance the economic, the social, and the cultural well-being of the United States of America, where 89-93 percent of our legal immigrants are not measured that way; about seven to 11 percent are measured that way. 
   This is a measure on merit. It is strictly a capital investment, and then meeting the other criteria about establishing the jobs in the business. But I fully support it. It is a bipartisan effort. And it is something that we agree on the theme and the philosophy. I wanted to point out that I believe that we need to set a hard cap on our overall immigration, and then start to shift within those visa allotments so that we get a higher percentage of merit coming in legally into the United States. And of course control the border, stop the bleeding there; none of this matters unless we can do that, Mr. Speaker. 
   With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW ACT IMPROVEMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - June 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Congressional Review Act provides Congress with a vital tool to oversee how agencies exercise their legislative authority Congress delegates to them. 
   The act has a great deal of promise, but unfortunately is used too little. Republicans on the Judiciary Committee have worked long, hard, and in a bipartisan fashion to help identify ways in which we can prompt its better use. Today, we begin the process of improving the act with one of those measures. H.R. 5593 streamlines the act's processing requirements, lightening the burden on the House Parliamentarian's office. 
   This is a measure first proposed in the 106th Congress by our much loved, revered, and respected former chairman, the late Henry Hyde. It had bipartisan support then as it does today, Mr. Speaker. 
   I applaud the House's consideration of this bill, and I hope that its swift enactment is but the first of key improvements we can make so that the act is both more efficient and more effective. 
   I urge its adoption.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (BAY MILLS INDIAN COMMUNITY LAND CLAIMS SETTLEMENT -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I yield myself so much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill, H.R. 2176. In unanimity and purpose and philosophical intent with the chairman of the full Judiciary Committee and, by the way, in consistency with all of the folks who voted on this bill out of the Judiciary Committee, regardless of the assertions of who had actual jurisdiction, that's where it was directed. 
   I'm interested in this bill for a number of reasons. First of all, when you have a reservation where they comply with regulations and go through the Indian Gaming Act and get the authority to establish a gaming facility, that's on the reservation. But I would submit, Mr. Speaker, that 350 miles away is off the reservation. And I think the motive of this thing is way off the reservation. 
   In fact, the precedent that would be set by this bill would be a precedent, and I understand there's language in the bill that says it doesn't set a precedent. My comment is, Yeah, right. Everything we do around here sets a precedent. In fact, it sets a pattern for the rest of the reservations in the country. 
   We've got to say ``no'' at this point. If not, we will be back here. The chairman of the Judiciary Committee's comment is well taken. It sets a pattern that all of the reservations and the tribes in the country will look at, and they will say how can we also go off the reservation and establish a gaming facility. 
   For those reasons, I oppose this bill, H.R. 2176. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (BAY MILLS INDIAN COMMUNITY LAND CLAIMS SETTLEMENT -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself so much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I'm listening with great interest to this debate that we have here on this floor, and it's interesting the unique way that the Michigan delegation doesn't agree on this. 
   As I've listened to the presentation made by the gentleman, Mr. Dingell, and to the intensity with which he speaks, certainly, I've listened to the argument, but I'll say this: The situation with this legislation is that the  land in question becomes part of the reservation, and when it becomes part of the reservation, we all know it's going to be turned into a gaming casino. So to argue that this only settles a land claim--the courts had their opportunity to settle the land claim, both the State court of Michigan and the U.S. Federal court, and that's why we're here. 
   The people who are pressing this claim on the floor of this Congress didn't get the resolution that they had asked for. They weren't able to prevail in court, so now they come to Congress and say, set a precedent so that we can, essentially, confer this land title on the Native Americans. When they take that title, it comes in trust. The Governor then takes the land in trust, but as soon as it goes in trust, it says that any and all claims are hereby extinguished to that land. So we're abrogating decisions made by the Federal court here and by the State court. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (BAY MILLS INDIAN COMMUNITY LAND CLAIMS SETTLEMENT -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time, I thank the gentleman. I think that does add clarity to this debate. The option to go to the Governor and to the legislature and the option of the other things we've heard about was better than going back to court under those circumstances. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (BAY MILLS INDIAN COMMUNITY LAND CLAIMS SETTLEMENT -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. In any case, this legislation simply says that any claims now would be resolved if this legislation passes, ``any and all claims, whether based on aboriginal or recognized title, are hereby extinguished.'' That's what this legislation does. 
   Then it says also ``these are unique claims and shall not be considered precedent.'' We know, again, that everything that happens in this Congress sets a precedent and creates an idea and an avenue. 
   I'm faced with a situation that, I think, could be multiplied in its difficulty because of the actions this Congress may take today, Mr. Speaker. Perhaps I'll take that up in my closing remarks. 
   Mr. Speaker, at this point, I'll reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (BAY MILLS INDIAN COMMUNITY LAND CLAIMS SETTLEMENT -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time. 
   Mr. Speaker, this is an interesting debate, and some things come to mind that I don't believe have been adequately answered. I'm going to ask the question and hope that someone answers it with the time they have left rather than asking me to yield them time. 
   What is the claim the two tribes have on this land and the distinction between it and all the rest of the State of Michigan? I think that's a good question. 
   When I look at this situation, I apply it to the district that I represent. And I have represented two reservations, two tribes, and two gaming casinos for the last 11 1/2 years. Now I have an outside tribe that has just been created within the last generation that has come in and bought land within my district in order to set up a health care clinic, and now the bait and switch takes place and it's going to be a casino instead. They get some of their problems cleared by this bill, 2176, if it passes today because, regardless of whether the bill says it's a precedent, it's a precedent. If it's not about money, it's about money, as we heard the chairman say. Where could a tribe not establish a casino if they determine to do so? Any land that they could buy for whatever purpose, whether it was a bait and switch or whatever, this opens up the door. As the gentlewoman from Las Vegas said, we could end up with casinos everywhere. 
   But we need to stand on some principle, and I don't see that the land is a consistent principle that can be defended in this case, Mr. Speaker. I oppose 2176. I urge that it be defeated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, it is always a profound honor to come to the floor of the people's House and vent what is on my mind. I would point out that your organization and timing is impeccable. I thank the gentlelady from the District for ending exactly on the hour, so it is easy to keep track of the time as we unfold the next 60 minutes. 
   I also appreciate her remarks with regard to Abraham Lincoln. He is a hero for America, for all people of all kinds, of all colors, of all places, and a man that demonstrated profound and tremendous leadership. As I listened to the gentlelady speak about Abraham Lincoln's leadership, I reflect upon a great example of leadership that I would like to share here this evening to start out this discussion. 
   I will say that I have been assured that this is a matter of historical fact by a Washington D.C. historian, and that is as far as I verified it, but I liked the story so much, that I would just as soon not know if it shouldn't happen to be true. But I believe it to be true, and at least its consistent with the leadership in the spirit of Abraham Lincoln. 
   That is, in 1863, as Abraham Lincoln was considering whether to sign the Emancipation Proclamation, it was not an issue that was totally in favor with the Republican Party at the time. But as he deliberated on this issue, he called his Cabinet in, and said, I want to hear from each of you on this Emancipation Proclamation that is here, and that I am considering signing. 
   So he started his Cabinet on his left, and all around the table, and they were all men at that time, as we know, and the ones that had the right to vote back then. The first one, the Cabinet member said, Mr. President, my advice to you is, no, don't sign the Emancipation Proclamation, because after all, the blacks that are north of the Mason-Dixon line are free today, and it doesn't help them. 
   So the next Cabinet member chimed in, and he said, Those south of the Mason-Dixon line, you can't free them because they are in the Confederacy, so your jurisdiction doesn't reach there today. It is a gesture and a gesture only. 
   The third Cabinet Member said, But it is, it is an empty gesture, because on the north side of the line and on the south side of line there isn't anybody that you can free with the Emancipation Proclamation. It is simply a symbolic act. As this went around the table, around the Cabinet room table, and each Cabinet member said to President Lincoln, Mr. President, my advice to you is, no, don't sign it, because among other things, you will alienate some of the people in the north that are pro-slavery that are still fighting under the blue uniform, or the Union. 
   There was reason after reason why President Lincoln shouldn't sign the Emancipation Proclamation and not a single reason given by any member of the Cabinet as to why he should sign the Emancipation Proclamation. So it was nay, nay, nay, nay, Mr. President, all the way around that table, his best advisors. 
   President Lincoln took ahold of his lapels, and he said, Well, gentleman, the aye has it. That story is a story of leadership, and it is a story that I hope goes down in history for a long time. So I appreciate the remarks of the gentlelady from the District and the spirit with which you deliver them. I appreciate you being here tonight. 
   I would like to take up the issue that we had a discussion on yesterday, and that would be the discussion of the minimum wage. 
   Now, on January 11, which was yesterday, the House passed H.R. 2, the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007, Mr. Speaker. This bill would raise the Federal minimum wage from $5.15 an hour to $7.25 an hour, over about two or three increments in a period of 2 years and would arrive at $7.25 an hour. This bill specifically applies the minimum wage rate and hike to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. 
   I bring this to the floor, because as I spoke here earlier on the embryonic stem cell research mandate that was passed out of this Congress this afternoon, there was a question and an inquiry, I was asked to yield by the gentleman from Florida, who asked if I knew if there were any geographical carveouts or any special political subdivision carveouts or any, perhaps, university or laboratory carveouts that  would show preference that we should shine some sunlight on before the vote rather than after the vote. 
   Of course, I know of none, asking out there if there are any, and we will be looking through the bill to see more closely, now that we have had a chance to scrutinize it, if there are any carveouts of that nature. But what prompted the gentleman from Florida's inquiry was, as I went back and dug in to find out, was that there is a carveout in the minimum wage legislation that was passed yesterday. 
   So one of the things that is specific is the application of the minimum wage to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, happens to be some islands that my father set foot on when he spent his 2 1/2 years in the South Pacific during World War II. So I paid a little bit of attention to that because that was part of the family lore as I grew up. 
   But the bill does nothing to foresee American Samoa to submit to the Federal minimum wage or this new hike. In fact, it specifically exempts the American Samoans from minimum wage. Now why would that be? The vote on this bill was 315-116, all Democrats voting ``aye'' and 116 Republicans voting ``no.'' 
   But as reported in the Washington Times today that although the legislation specifically extends for the first time the Federal minimum wage to the U.S. territory of the Northern Mariana Islands, it exempts American Samoa, which is another Pacific island territory that would become, the only U.S. territory not subjected to the Federal minimum wage laws. The only territory, the only location in the jurisdiction of the United States of America exempted from Federal minimum wage law would be American Samoans. 
   This loophole pleases the tuna corporations that employ thousands of Samoans in canneries at a rate of $3.26 an hour. It is an industry-specific rate that is set by the U.S. Department of Labor. 
   But the tuna industry has lobbied Congress for years arguing that imposing the Federal minimum wage on Samoa would cripple the economy by driving the canneries to poor countries that don't require a minimum wage. 
   Then one of the biggest opponents, though, of the U.S. minimum wage there is StarKist tuna, which owns one of the two packing plants that together employ more than 5,000 Samoans. Yet StarKist is about 75 percent of that, about 3,750 employees perhaps at StarKist. Chicken of the Sea would be the other 1,250 employees, totaling the 5,000. Chicken of the Sea is also California based. 
   But what is interesting, and I think what inspired the gentleman's inquiry this afternoon, was that StarKist's parent company, this company that has now an exemption from minimum wage law, their parent company is Del Monte Corporation, Del Monte Corporation, headquartered in San Francisco, which is the hometown, of course, of our new Speaker. 
   Now, a spokeswoman for the Speaker said yesterday that the Speaker had not been lobbied in any way by StarKist or Del Monte. That is interesting. I don't know that I could say that about any single company in my district, small company, large company. Trade associations represent multiple interests that might come into that. I am lobbied by individuals, I am lobbied by trade associations, I am lobbied by individual companies over and over again, hundreds and thousands of voices coming into my office. 
   I welcome them all, but I could not take an oath that there is a single company in my district that has not lobbied me in any way, or, let me expand that, even if that were true, there is no way I could take the oath that not a single company has lobbied any of my staff. There are decisions made by my staff that I take responsibility for. That reflects upon me. 
   So one could impute from this statement that the Speaker has not been lobbied in any way by StarKist or Del Monte. One can impute to that that also includes the Speaker's staff. I couldn't make that statement about a single company in my district, but this large company, larger than any company in my district, and domiciled in and headquartered in San Francisco, has had no contact with the Speaker's office or staff over any period of time, over, not just within the last week, but over the last 2 years, 4 years, 6 years or more? I think that deserves a little bit of scrutiny. 
   But as reported in The Washington Post on January 9, aides to the chairman of the Education and Labor Committee, the gentleman from California, and the sponsor of the bill said, and I quote, ``The Samoan economy does not have the diversity and vibrancy to handle the mainland's minimum wage, nor does the island have anything like the labor rights abuses that the chairman found in the Marianas.'' 
   That is also interesting. It works good for a smokescreen for a short period of time, but here are the facts. In June of 2005, a U.S. court in Hawaii sentenced the owner of a sweatshop factory in American Samoa to 40 years in prison for what prosecutors called the biggest case ever of modern-day slavery. That isn't a small statement, and that is not a short sentence to prison, 40 years in prison for the biggest case ever of modern-day slavery in American Samoa. 
   The chairman, who has been tracking this research on the labor problems within the Marianas and presumably American Samoa, contends that he didn't find anything going on in American Samoa that would be comparable to the labor rights abuses found in the Marianas. 
   What would be worse than the biggest case ever of modern-day slavery of labor rights abuses? I don't know how you would define that. I will challenge the chairman, come up with those cases, explain to us how this one that was worthy of 40 years in prison, the biggest case ever of modern-day slavery, somehow or another pales in comparison to the transgressions of the Marianas, of which I don't have a single case before me. 
   That is the argument made to the chairman and why he wrote into the bill the exemption for American Samoa where they are paid $3.26 an hour, but in the Marianas, of course, they want to include them. 
   Well the difference is they have Republicans in the Marianas, and they have Democrats in American Samoa. But the individual in American Samoa, the labor right's abuser's name is Lee Soo-Kil, he held more than 300 victims as forced laborers in involuntary servitude at his garment factory in American Samoa. 
   He is accused of using arrests, forced deportations and brutal physical beatings to keep workers under control. The court was told, this is in the record of the court, that he ordered a worker to gouge the eye of another worker who dared to complain about her living and working conditions in the garment factory. That abuse would not be sufficient, apparently, in the judgment of the chairman to consider that it was something that should be brought underneath the minimum wage law and under some more scrutiny in American Samoa. 
   It is certainly an act that would exempt you from the minimum wage. Democrats said that their reign in the House would usher in a new era of transparency. Yet with the second bill they bring to the floor, eyebrows are raised at the thought of a lucrative carveout from a company with a parent company headquartered in the hometown of our new Speaker. 
   It didn't take very long for these things to start to pop up. Over and over again Democrats claim that the minimum wage needed to be raised as a matter of fairness and human decency. Yet, yet, apparently workers in American Samoa don't count in the Democrats' view. 
   Mr. Faleomavaega, who is a representative of American Samoa, has said he doesn't believe his island's economy could handle the Federal minimum wage because of competition in the tuna industry from South America and Asian canning interests, a place where they are paying as low as $.66 to $.67 cents an hour. 
   We are going to cater to and let competition be affected by that kind of sweatshop labor that is taking place in South America and Asian canneries. But apparently the Democrats are under the impression that the laws of economic competition are only applicable to American Samoa and have no bearing on the goods and the countless business manufacturers elsewhere in the United States, and that also includes the Marianas, which are geographically close, similarly situated,  but not specifically exempted like American Samoa. 
   The United States needs to be competitive and be able to sell abroad. But while the small businesses in my district, who often pay more than the federally mandated minimum page, I would say almost always pay more, they provide employment to countless hardworking Americans, and some of them struggle each month to make their payrolls. 
   Democrats have allowed employers in American Samoa to avoid this burdensome Federal mandate, but not those in the Marianas, not those anywhere else in the American territories, not anywhere under the jurisdiction of the United States of America, except American Samoa, where you have two large tuna companies, and one of them's parent company is domiciled in San Francisco. 
   I don't understand how Democrats see their economic principles make the minimum wage a bad idea for American Samoa, but not a bad thing for Main Street in small town USA. They pledge to bring transparency to the legislative process, and yet they refuse to submit their 100-hours legislation to the regular committee process. I may take that issue up a little bit later. 
   What I would very much like to do at this point in this conversation with you and the American people would be to yield to my friend, the gentleman from North Carolina, Mr. McHenry, for his remarks on whatever issue he might have come to the floor to address.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. As I am listening to this dialogue that we have going on here and I start to think about, you know, a lot of us see this broader economy, we see this multi-trillion GDP that we have, and we see the components of small businesses, large businesses, family farms, and these operations that are going on, the interrelationships of them. Some families run more than one business. And I have taken the position, and many of us have, that whenever you raise the minimum wage, ultimately you will lose jobs. We understand this, and we have made this argument and this debate, and we will continue to make this argument and this debate. 
   But I am going to say the people who voted for this minimum wage, at least the people who supported the idea of exempting American Samoa from the minimum wage, can only understand this law of supply and demand and this argument that is a fundamental, basic economic principle that when you mandate an increase in wages, the employer will have to make a decision as to whether to keep those employees or not or to lay them off and maybe move their operations elsewhere, or bring some machinery in to replace the labor. The inevitable result of raising a minimum wage is the loss of jobs. 
   But I am going to speculate this, Mr. McHenry. I am going to speculate that when it is addressed within the microcosm of a single business on a single island, then the chairman of the committee actually understood that equation and decided that he would draft in an exemption for American Samoa for that fishy business that you addressed. Because when it is a microcosm of a single island and a single company, maybe it was comprehensible the impact of a minimum wage there. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I pose a question back, and that is a statement has been released by a spokeswoman for the Speaker with regard to this, because this has been something that has been published across the country. And it says that the Speaker has not been lobbied in any way by StarKist or Del Monte. 
   Now, not lobbied in any way. That is a broad statement that a lawyer probably couldn't write it any more broadly than that. It may well have been a lawyer who said it. And I reflected moments ago about, I couldn't make that statement about a single company no matter how small in my district, because they either talk to me or my staff or maybe sent me a letter or called on the phone or sent me an e-mail, or maybe called in on a telephone while I was doing a talk radio show and I didn't know who they were. How could one make a statement that she hadn't been lobbied in any way? Could you make that statement about a single business in your district? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. In response to the gentleman from New Jersey, I would have to say that there is no other way I can analyze that. 
   There are actually only two arguments. One of them is the argument that is put forth by the representative from American Samoa who says that the tuna industry can't withstand the competition if they have to pay a minimum wage. So something more than $3.26 an hour would take those tuna companies out of business, and they would apparently leave the island. And they couldn't go to the Marianas because there is a minimum wage imposed there, so presumably they would go to South America or maybe Asia. 
   The other argument of course is this exemption will let those tuna companies that are there continue to make a lot of money off of cheap labor that is imposed there in American Samoa where it is exempted from, the only location in all of American territories and jurisdictions that is exempted from Federal law. That is what is in this legislation that is before us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time, I would take a stab at that and submit off of Mr. McHenry's remarks as well that when you have a closed process and in fact it is not necessarily a closed process; it is a no process, no process for hearings, no process for subcommittee, no process for full committee, no process for Rules Committee and no process on the floor that allows for any amendments, then there is no way to go back and really identify who is going to get the credit for this brilliant exemption that has been drafted into the minimum wage bill. So we can only then rely on the open press, the press accounts, and I am grateful that we do have a first amendment because they have gone back and reported and have publicly not been refuted remarks made by the chairman of the committee, who has gone to the Pacific and examined the labor circumstances there and found that the labor circumstances in American Samoa justify exemptions, but those in the Marianas do not justify exemptions, just to draw a real close comparison there, even though the worst example of a sweat shop that prosecutors had ever seen was the perpetrator that was sentenced to 40 years for abusing 300 employees in American Samoa. And so the exemption, then, is admitted publicly by the chairman of the committee as being drafted into the bill under his advice and his request, and that is the closest thing we have, but there is no opportunity to amend it in or out or to add to or detract from. 
   And the people I feel the most sorry for are not Mr. Garrett from New Jersey or Mr. McHenry from North Carolina. My sympathy lies with the large number of freshmen Democrats who have arrived here in this Congress under the belief and having committed to their constituents that they are going to add to this cause, that they are going to add to this process, that their voice will be heard, that they will be bring representation from their district to Washington, D.C., where a lot of them allege they did not have representation, and they are the ones shut out of the process without a voice, without an opinion, without a forum, without an amendment, without any opportunity for amendment, after having made all those promises, shut out of this. All that wisdom shut out. A handful of people, maybe not even a handful of people, makes a decision like this. It is a closed process, and this is what you get with a closed process is an earmark, as Mr. McHenry said. 
   And if the gentleman from New Jersey has more to say, I would be happy to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from New Jersey. And it occurs to me that perhaps one's own house is not in order before the presentation of the legislation that seeks to put everyone else's house in order, and I am confident this will not be the last time that these circumstances are created here nor that they will exist when one finds themselves in a position of conflict of judgment. And these are the kinds of things that can be debated and discussed and deliberated if we have an open process. 
   But I would point out to the gentleman from New Jersey that we are closing in perhaps, perhaps, on an open process. When we gaveled in here this morning, this 100 hours pledge was that this legislation, about six pieces of legislation, was to be passed in the first 100 hours, and that became the promise that trumped all other promises. The promises of an open system, bipartisanship, dialogue, the most open and the most ethical Congress in history, all of these things, many of them have been compromised already because you can't have an open Congress and get these things done, apparently, in the first 100 hours. So the 100-hour promise is the one that is sacrosanct, and the rest of their promises are being broken in an attempt to try to pass this legislation in the first 100 hours. 
   Well, my report tonight, Mr. Speaker, is to bring everyone up to date on  how far we are. And we have tried objectively to produce a legitimate 100-hour clock. And I know there is from, the other side of the aisle, a stopwatch put on that. Well, we don't want to count, after we gavel in for the 110th Congress, the time that it takes to swear in because that is not really legislative time, and we don't want to count the time it takes to vote for the Speaker, Mr. Speaker, because that takes also away from our legislative time. We really only want to start this 100-hour clock when it is convenient to do so, and we are going to count time in our own way, and the 100 hours is not going to be up until we get this legislation that we promised we would do in the 100 hours. That is the measure. So keep changing the definition on what the 100 hours is until you get things accomplished. Then you say, yes, we did. We kept our promise. 
   Well, this was a promise that was purely a political promise. The American people have waited for this legislation for over 200 years. To hurry up and rush it through and set aside an open dialogue, set aside the amendment process, shut down and not allow subcommittee, committee or Rules Committee or floor amendments, do all of that so you can keep a 100-hours promise. So, anyway, the least we can do is have a legitimate clock on the 100 hours. I produced this legitimate clock, Mr. Speaker, and this morning when we gaveled in with an opening prayer and a pledge, when we did so this morning, we were sitting at 42 real hours. This is the hours here on the floor from the time we gavel in until the time we gavel out. How could anyone argue that that is not legitimate? We are not counting 24 hours a day. We are counting the real time that there is someone sitting in the Speaker's chair and the clock is ticking. 
   So to bring you up to date, we are now at 52 hours when this began. It will be 53 hours here in about 18 minutes. Now we are halfway. We have been further than we have to go, and my recommendation would be just throw this idea away. Suspend this idea of 100 hours because it is what is usurping the open dialogue, the appropriate process, the most ethical Congress in history, the most sunlight on everything we are doing. 
   As I listened to the news over the weekend, the gentleman from Tennessee, when asked the question, Mr. Speaker, about the 100 hours, he said: Well, no, we really can't comply with the open bipartisanship. Just give us a little break on that. Let us get our 100 hours done, and when the 100 hours is over, I believe we are going to go to this open process, this bipartisanship, and actually use the committees and the expertise of the Members here, hopefully the freshmen, especially the Democrat freshmen, giving them a chance, Mr. Speaker. So that was his plea. Give us a break and let us go ahead, and we will go, not in regular order, but we will go in a special order so that we can get done in the first 100 hours. 
   Well, I do not agree with that. I think we ought to set this argument aside. But at least we can suspend, then, this suspension of open dialogue when the 100 hours is up. We are at 52. We will soon be at 53. It also says the cost to the country. Well, I have not done very well, Mr. Speaker, because I do not have a staff that can keep up with the cost to the country or maybe I do not have an adding machine that allows for that. And as I look at the legislation that has passed through piece after piece, some of it just can't be calculated. I didn't have a symbol on the word processor to go to infinity, so we just kind of stuck a bunch of dollar signs in here because the cost to the country is impossible to calculate. 
   It is impossible to calculate when you pass legislation, for example, to inspect every piece of cargo that comes into our ports and the authorization becomes, and I quote from the legislation, ``such sums as may be necessary.'' Well, when we are doing legislation with authorization of ``such sums as may be necessary,'' that is more money than we can calculate. We can't put a dollar figure on that. That goes on piece after piece. How much does it cost to raise the minimum wage? How many jobs are lost? How much of our production goes oversees? What is the real effect on the American economy when and if that happens, when and if the Senate takes it up? It can't be calculated, but it is a lot of money. We will soon be at 53 hours and counting. That will take us down to 47. We have been further than we have to go. We are over the top. We are going to narrow this thing down. And when we get to the 100 hours, the real 100 hours, I am hopeful that this Congress will then wake up and say, we have another promise we want to keep rather than one we want to break, and that is going to be to bring the freshmen into this process.     
   We will give the freshmen an opportunity to go to a subcommittee and sit down at a hearing and begin to get informed so they can make informed decisions on behalf of their constituents. We need that kind of process. The Constitution envisions that kind of process. In fact, it requires it. 
   I am for an open system, and I am for sunlight on all of this. I am for sunlight even on StarKist, and even on Chicken of the Sea and even on San Francisco and even on American Samoa. And I am for sunlight on the Marianas as well. I am for sunlight on everything that we can provide, and I am for real-time reporting. 
   Every American has access to the Internet today. Whether they own a computer at home or go to the library, they can sit down to a computer. And I believe all of the records, the records of the lobbyists' contributions to Members of Congress, maybe contributions that came from Del Monte or StarKist or Chicken of the Sea, we can look where those contributions went and be able to track that. 
   If we had an open system here, if those Federal election campaign dollars were real-time reported and available on the Internet so that they were downloadable in a searchable and sortable format, we would have somebody right now sitting at home in America who would have flicked those keys and zeroed in on that and they would have by now probably e-mailed my office a summary of, a detailed list of all those campaign contributions. Probably the bloggers out there would have sleuthed out why it is that American Samoa is exempted from this minimum wage law. We know if you track the money, you can find a pretty good motivation. 
   I didn't hear from Mr. McHenry that he could name a business in his district that had not lobbied him during his time here. I know that Mr. Garrett has been here a good 4 years and starting on the fifth year. I didn't ask that specific question, but I would ask you to respond. 
   Mr. Garrett, is there a single business in your district that you could swear an oath had not lobbied you or your staff in any way, any form of communication that might have influenced your judgment or decision? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from New Jersey. 
   I wanted to make a few remarks about the minimum wage itself and just to go on record. We need to understand something. This is a free enterprise economy. What has made America great is because if you go back 150 years, we had a dream called manifest destiny. We had a continent that needed to be settled and developed. Individual personal capital was invested. Banks grew because they could make money off loaning, and entrepreneurs could borrow money. 
   They were going into an environment within the continent, within the borders of the United States, in a low-tax and sometimes a no-tax environment and often no regulation, but certainly a low-regulation environment. So they invested their money. 
   This country was settled and developed in lightning speed by historical standards because we had a very positive environment here for economic growth. 
   Then as this society began to get a little older and began to develop, they began to take protection. So the older we get, someone would decide that they needed to have some influence and so they would want to advocate in Congress and in the State legislatures for taxes and more taxes and regulation and more regulations. That is how this  has grown into this situation. But a prosperous, dynamic economy has got to be one with the least amount of regulations possible and the lowest amount of taxation necessary to keep a government functioning to provide the necessary services. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman. 
   As I listened to that discussion, it brings to mind some of my history. I recall I started back working for 75 cents an hour helping a farmer in the neighborhood. I think he would have paid me a dollar, but I didn't think I was worth more than 75 cents an hour. If you were to ask him today, he would probably say that would be right, you were not, STEVE. 
   I did that and I learned about machinery and the work that we were doing that was different from my home. After that I went to work in a grocery store, and there the wage was $1.20. And I stocked shelves and carried out groceries and learned about the grocery trade. So I worked there when school was out, and then it was summertime. I realized that the butcher was making pretty good money. That was before we had the kind of packing plants that we have today. So there was more demand for people who could cut meat. 
   I thought I might as well learn a trade. First I talked to the butcher, and he said he would take me on. And then I went to the manager and asked the manager. The manager said, yes, you can work in the meat department but that is not where I need you, so I can't pay you. Well, I want to learn a trade. Fine, you can go back there and work. And so I agreed to work in the meat department for nothing. So I would work 40 hours a week in the grocery store, and then I would work 20 to 40 hours a week in the meat department with no pay. 
   It would have been in violation of this minimum wage law, but I did it for no pay because I wanted to learn a trade. And I did learn a trade. It is not one I have ever been paid a dollar to do. In fact, it puts me into the business sometimes of being the one who does cut up the meat at whatever family gathering we have. 
   But that is the kind of thing that used to happen on a regular basis. I am not an odd thing. I am not an anomaly when it comes to that. 
   But it is a subject that each time the government interferes, whenever the government passes some of these child labor laws that say that, well, if you are 17 years and 364 days old and you would like to work in the gas station, you can run the cash register, but you cannot cut the grass on the riding lawn mower until you are 18. That is an example of a child labor law. 
   Another example is you cannot wash the pizza dough maker or you can't make french fries. All of these things you can do at home, a lot of these things we allow younger people to do at home, a 17-year-364-day-old person cannot because of our child labor laws. 
   You couple that with minimum wage laws and ask the question is there any place in your community where, let's just say an older lady who doesn't get around very well can pull her car into the gas station and be confident that the windshield will be washed and the oil will be checked and her gas tank will be filled, and somebody will bring her credit card in and out and make sure that all she has to do is sit there and wait for that service. Where does that happen in America? Some places, not many. And the biggest reasons are minimum wage laws and child labor laws. 
   So instead, we give them the keys to a car that goes 140 miles an hour and they can drive on the highway. It is safe enough for them to drive a car at 16, 14 with an adult with them, but not safe enough for them to ride a riding lawn mower around a gas station. 
   This is what happens when decisions don't get opened up to public scrutiny, and not opened up for debate and opportunity for amendments to be offered. 
   So here we are with this fishy thing going on in American Samoa where they are the only territory in all of the territories of the United States of America by this legislation that has passed the House that would be exempted from minimum wage laws. And I have to believe that is not for the people of American Samoa; it is for the people making profit off the sweat of their brows. 
   And if it is good enough for the goose for the rest of America, it is good enough for the gander in American Samoa.  
   I yield to the gentleman. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEMOCRATIC AGENDA -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. As I conclude here, Mr. Speaker, no one has come to the floor to defend a position like that. It was not part of the dialogue, the debate and the discussion. 
   While we have taken the floor here an hour ago, there were 52 hours used up of the 110th Congress of the 100. Now 53 hours. So 47 hours are left, Mr. Speaker. 
   And when that time comes, it will be time to open up so that we don't have these kinds of circumstances. It needs to be open to the public. 
   I appreciate the privilege to address you tonight, Mr. Speaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman for yielding and appreciate the privilege to address this subject matter. 
   This motion to recommit is a motion about cloning. Many of the other civilized nations in the world have taken a position against cloning. This Congress has taken a position against cloning, but there isn't a way in the laboratory to move forward with these experiments on embryos without cloning. 
   We are asking for a moral standard here. The people say, on the one side of this argument, No, we're opposed to human cloning; we think that's abhorrent to us; that that is ethically something that we're opposed to. This motion to recommit allows a Member to take that stand and put that vote up and say, I'm opposed to cloning, whatever you believe about the research that is involved here. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, this amendment that I bring and the simple function of it goes into the large $6 billion appropriations piece, takes out $1 million and puts back in $1 million, and it is for the purposes of directing customs and border protection and our border protection people to go in and take out the lookout posts that have been established, I will call them my military positions, from the Mexican border all the way up to Phoenix, through Tucson all the way up to Phoenix.     
   In the time that I've spent on the southern border, the Border Patrol people have pointed out to me, the shadow wolves have pointed out to me, ICE people have pointed out to me that the lookouts that have been established there will be on top of those small mountains that overlook the transportation routes. And so what they do with their sophisticated, the drug smugglers, the drug cartel, with their sophisticated surveillance equipment, good optical equipment, good radio equipment, with scramblers and descramblers ahead of us, they position one or two people on top of those lookout mountains, and then they can tell their own people exactly where the Border Patrol are. They can run a decoy through those routes, and as soon as the Border Patrol converges on that decoy, they will sacrifice 200 pounds of marijuana. I've been there to help interdict that. Meanwhile, they run the truckload through when all those focused resources are on that lookout. That's one of the tactics. 
   They deploy a number of tactics, but they are occupying and controlling what we would describe as military positions way inside the United States, all the way to Tucson and all the way to Phoenix. I've been there, I've looked at them, I've seen them, and Congressman Feeney is actually on his way to add to this debate. He's gone to the top of these mountains. We have pictures. 
   I helped produce a map. This is a map of at least 75 locations. It may well go over 100 locations. I sat there and watched our border protection people put the Xs on the map. I stood there and looked at the mountains to them. I presented this to the Vice President. I presented this to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and what I get is a letter that is more or less designed to pacify me. 
   And I believe that, if you're going to play cat and mouse with drug smugglers, you ought to take those tools away from them. We should be taking these drug smugglers off of these tactical positions the instant they arrive there and not let them sit up there and control military positions inside the United States, controlling the transportation routes for their drug smuggling, all the way to Phoenix. 
   This is a fact. It's a well-established fact, and this Congress needs to send a message that the Department of Homeland Security needs to take them out the minute they're occupied. 
   Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I seek to close in this period of time, and I appreciate the chairman's remarks on this, but he's asking us to accept the argument that out of $6.6 billion Homeland Security is not going to spend $1 million to take out the lookout outpost on top of the mountains that the drug cartels are manning. 
   And they man these things full-time, often two at a time, often with assault weapons on top. They build a little fortress up there with setting up stones like sandbags, and it's a military position. They sit up there with optical equipment, infrared equipment at night. They can see further than we can see, and they can communicate as well as we can communicate, many times better. 
   So it wouldn't be rational to say we're playing a game of cat and mouse, but we're going to let this cat do whatever he wants to do and we're going to play the mouse. 
   So Mr. Feeney and I authored a letter that went to Secretary of Homeland Security Chertoff on August 30 of last year and asked him to take out these lookout posts and take those drug smugglers off the top of those mountains. That's the short version of it. 
   We got the letter back, the answer back from the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, not the Secretary, and their explanation from the letter was, ``Recently, agents in the San Diego sector, using advanced technology, discovered that scouts for  a drug trafficking organization were watching Border Patrol movements and were trying to coordinate the crossing of narcotics into the United States. Using this intelligence, Border Patrol agents seized 400 pounds of marijuana and the vehicle used to transport the narcotics.'' 
   That's their huge accomplishment for $65 billion worth of drugs pouring across our southern border and drug smugglers with assault weapons taking up tactical military positions to control our transportation routes. And so they explain to us that they have interdicted 400 pounds of marijuana, which isn't even an indictable offense in that region of the world. It was 250 pounds, but they had too many criminals so they had to raise to it to 500 pounds. These guys get a pass, and that's all the Department of Homeland Security is doing. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Feeney) who has just arrived, and I'm ready for his vigor and hope a chance to close. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Kentucky for his gracious step that's he taken here and appreciate making sure that the breathless Mr. Feeney had an opportunity to say a few words because I know he ran up the stairs. 
   This is an important symbolic vote, and we've worked on this for years. I didn't realize how difficult it was to convince the Department of Homeland Security what was going on here, but this letter in response that they have written where they bragged about interdicting one person with 400 pounds of marijuana is just somehow that's addressing all of these tactical positions that look over all of our transportation routes inside the United States. 
   Congress needs to send a message we can't tolerate that inside this country. We wouldn't if we were at war. We're in a drug war. 
   I thank the ranking member. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. King). 
   The amendment was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, my amendment strikes $5 million and puts it back in. It is directed to encourage the promotion of the Basic Pilot Program. 
   We have had a number of hearings on this in the subject matter that has come before the Immigration Subcommittee of which I am the ranking member. And the statistics on that look very encouraging to the effectiveness of the Basic Pilot Program, the Employment Verification Program, if you will, or I will call it the ``Instant Check Program.'' 
   What that program does is it allows an employer to take the information off the I-9 document from an employee applicant and introduces that into an Internet page, where that Internet goes off and checks the database of the Social Security Administration and the Department of Homeland Security and comes back and verifies if you have the documents before you and the information from the documents that ensure that that is a legal applicant, at least the documents from a legal applicant. 
   What we have seen is that 98.6 percent of the legal applicants are approved in the first try. And when they have to go back and clean up their records a little bit, you get to well over 99 percent accuracy within the Basic Pilot Program, and yet we don't have enough employers that are using it. 
   This has been the substance of many of the proposals for Comprehensive Immigration Reform on how we are going to hold employers accountable and how they are going to verify that the applicants before them are applying with real documents and if those documents identify real people that are lawful to work in the United States. 
   And so as much success as we have had with this, I want to ensure that we have the Department of Homeland Security promoting the Basic Pilot Program. They have the dollars in their budget to do that. This just commits those dollars and dedicates $5 million to promotion of the Basic Pilot Program. 
   I will say that I have this program. I have run it myself. I have tried to fool it, everything I could do. The longest  delay I could create was 6 seconds on an applicant, and the error rate, of course, is minimal. 
   I would add that if we have flaws in our database, it isn't necessarily a problem with the Basic Pilot Program. It may well be that the Social Security Administration records are wrong, or the Department of Homeland Security criminal records in the NCIC perhaps need to be corrected. So the only way that I can see that you can complete that narrow area, that less than 1 percent that are flawed, is to use the program. If you use the program, you clean up the mistakes. 
   That is what this amendment does, Mr. Chairman, is it directs $5 million and encourages the Department of Homeland Security to promote the Basic Pilot Program. And this has been something that has been consistent with those that promote the Comprehensive Immigration Reform plan, as well as those of us who believe we should do enforcement first. 
   Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I appreciate the gentleman yielding. 
   This is actually an amendment that I offered a previous year or two. And I don't recall if it was successful or not, I actually think it was, but I can't speak to that factually here tonight. But I can say that since ICE has the authority to go in and enforce on the work site, and they do do that, that also puts them in a position, in their cooperative effort with employers, to be able to use these resources to promote the Employment Verification Program, or the Basic Pilot Program, within the auspices of their regular enforcement, where they are interrelating with the employers on the work site. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I appreciate the privilege to make another point, and that is that I believe that since we have ICE working all across this country, working with many of the employers, that the knowledge base and the promotion of Basic Pilot would be something that would be mobile and portable and flexible.     
   Since it is an Internet-based program, all of these employers, at least the larger employers, have computers and Internet access. So the flexibility of this and the mobility of it I think is clear. The message that comes from this I don't think constrains ICE, but encourages them to do something I think they should be doing as part of their overall process. 
   I would encourage the chairman to consider my remarks in his response. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. If the gentleman will yield further, I hope I have made my point that ICE is in a position to enforce. They are hands-on with the employers in the work site, and that is where the utilization of Basic Pilot takes place. I believe it is incumbent upon this Congress to encourage that ICE incorporates the promotion and education of this as part of the work that they do as they interrelate with the employers. Not just go in and raid and lock people up and haul them off, but to help work so employers can have confidence. 
   If we leave this strictly within USCIS, they are not out into the employer workforce. They don't have that access to employers in the fashion that ICE does. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, moving forward in my last minute in conclusion, I just want to emphasize that ICE is out there in the field and they are dealing with employers on a daily basis face-to-face. USCIS is a stationary operation and they operate out of their offices wherever they might be located with the databases they have and the access that they have to the information. But USCIS wouldn't be in a position to come out and promote Basic Pilot on a face-to-face basis with employers. 
   I would say the only entity out there that has better capability of interacting with employers, other than ICE, would be the IRS. It may be a good idea for us at some point to take up the idea of eliminating the tax deductibility of wages and benefits paid to illegals and let the IRS help with this enforcement. 
   But what this amendment does is it encourages and directs that ICE go out and interact with the employers and promote with $5 million the utilization of the Basic Pilot Program. 
   Mr. Chairman, I urge the adoption of the amendment. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. King). 
   The question was taken; and the Acting Chairman announced that the noes appeared to have it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.  
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Iowa will be postponed. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. If there are no further amendments to this paragraph, the Clerk will read. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I thank Mr. Tancredo for yielding. 
   Mr. Chairman, I would take it to this, that one thing that has happened with these sanctuary policies is the cities have gotten together, I think I looked at the same attorney opinion, and tried to find a loophole, and in many of these sanctuary policies it says if you are an employee of the city, you shall not gather information. If you are prohibited from gathering, then you don't have any information to share with the law enforcement people who do enforce our Immigration laws. That is one of the loopholes that is there. 
   But the philosophy here is really the difference. There are two trains of thought. One of them says if you enforce immigration law in my community, people won't come forward and report other laws, like domestic abuse or whatever. And the other side is, how in the world can you enforce some laws and not others? 
   This is a statute that is clear on the books. Mr. Tancredo is seeking to enforce that statute. And the decision needs to be made by the cities, do you like your Homeland Security funding? Is the funding that comes from the Federal Government that provides that security in those cities worth more to you than your sanctuary policy? That is the bottom line. Federal law has got to prevail. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from California for yielding. 
   I want to clarify what this amendment does. It does really two things. One is it directs the $1 billion already in the bill to go to the 854 miles of the most critical areas of the border that were identified in the Secure Fence Act. The first thing is put the resources where they are the most critical, where Congress has, by more than a 2-to-1 margin in the House, said let's do this. And the Senate has said by a more than 4-to-1 margin, 80-19, let's build this 854 miles. 
   The second thing that the bill does is that it confines the billion dollars to fence and access roads. You have to have roads to build it, and you have to have roads to maintain it. What the administration has demonstrated is out of the $1.187 billion that we appropriated last year, they spent perhaps $30 million on real fence, the 13.01 miles that Mr. Royce addressed. The balance of that is on virtual technology. 
   Now we need some virtual technology; but overall, this will provide in the end $2.2 billion. And of that, $1 billion is set aside for physical structures, fence and roads. The balance of that, the decision can be made by DHS as to whether that is virtual and real or whatever combination. 
   So we are asking for $1 billion of the overall $2.2 billion to go to physical fence and access roads. That is consistent with what Congress has passed by a large margin. 
   What is so important about this that isn't brought into this debate is the fact that there are $65 billion worth of illegal drugs coming across that southern border. Ninety percent of the illegal drugs that come into America come there. The force of that $65 billion is overpowering, and no amount of virtual fence is going to stop a real drug cartel that is pushing on all 2,000 miles of that border and will find the weak spots. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONGRATULATING IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY FOR 150 YEARS OF LEADERSHIP AND SERVICE -- (House of Representatives - March 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, Iowa State University is one of the most respected land-grant universities in the Nation. Created by the Iowa General Assembly in 1858, the Iowa Agricultural College and Model Farm was designated the first land-grant college when Iowa became the first state to accept the terms of the Federal Morrill Act in 1864. 
   The act allowed Iowa to sell Federal land to finance a new college open to all, regardless of wealth, race or sex; offering a practical education in engineering, agriculture, and military science as well as classical studies; and sharing research knowledge with all Iowans. Iowa State University officially opened in 1869 and was the first coeducational land-grant school. Today, we are proudly celebrating the 150th anniversary of Iowa State University. 
   Iowa State University has been a leader in science in technology throughout its long history. The world's first electronic digital computer was developed at Iowa State by math and physics professor John V. Atanasoff and graduate student Clifford Berry, in the late 1930s. Their invention, the ABC computer, has been called the most important technological innovation of the 20th century. 
   The university is a leader in virtual reality research and its most advanced virtual reality theater, the C6, is the Nation's first six-sided theater that totally immerses the user in images and sound. 
   Iowa State is one of the top three U.S. universities in the development of patentable biotechnology. Last February, the Iowa Board of Regents approved a $32 million budget and conceptual design for a new biorenewables research laboratory at Iowa State University. The laboratory is the first piece of a new biorenewables complex planned for the university. 
   Biorenewables research is the future of ISU and the State of Iowa. I congratulate Iowa State University on 150 years, and wish them many more. Go Cyclones. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, it's an honor to be recognized to address you here on the floor of the United States House of Representatives. 
   I listened to my colleagues with great interest, and I appreciate the constitutional acumen that they bring to the floor. I honor their work and support their statements, and do through a rather unsmooth segue into the issue that I believe needs to be addressed here, Madam Speaker, so that there can be a greater depth of knowledge about the subject of energy in this country. 
   First of all, there is a certain idea that somehow we can talk about energy conservation and we can pass legislation to require automobiles to get 75 miles to the gallon and somehow that's not going to cost a price in quality of life or in engineering costs. And some people believe that that can actually happen. And I know that if we go so far as to mandate such a thing, you would have to park your Harley today because it wouldn't get that kind of mileage. And if that's going to happen with a family automobile, I would like to know how that is designed to be done without putting us in a very flexible and crashable vehicle that doesn't provide very much safety for the people that are inside. 
   I'm concerned about that approach, Madam Speaker, and I'm concerned about an approach that believes that there is maybe only one or two things we can do with energy, and maybe there is a silver bullet here to solve all of this.     
   Madam Speaker, there is no silver bullet on energy. It is a cost of everything that we do. A cup of coffee, a pair of shoes, a suit, a ticket to the ball game, a television set, everything that we might buy or consume, including all of our food, the price of it is wrapped up in energy. And inflation of energy is inflation of everything. And as we watched gas prices go up since the beginning of this Congress, this 110th Congress, when Speaker Pelosi took the gavel, gas prices have gone up over 50 percent in that period of time. And the promise was, well, there was going to be a commonsense approach to energy. 
   Madam Speaker, I'm still waiting for that commonsense approach. I've seen pieces of legislation come across this floor a number of times in this 110th Congress, and every piece of legislation that addressed energy raised the cost of energy, and no piece of legislation increased the supply of energy, which would reduce the cost. 
   The law of supply and demand is that if you have more supply than you have demand, prices fall because the sellers have to discount in order to turn their product into cash. And if you have a demand that's higher than the supply, the price goes up because the buyers are willing to pay more because they want it; so they compete for the product. 
   Just the same way as if you're a great athlete, Madam Speaker, and maybe only a few people can sky walk above the hoop and slam the ball down through in a basketball court, and only a few of those people get offered the millions of dollars because it's a rare talent. There's a lot of demand for that kind of talent and only a little bit of supply. So the price for a very highly talented basketball player goes up and up. The same goes for all of our sports. We can see that easily. If you're a clutch pitcher and you can step into a baseball game with the bases loaded and nobody out and are ahead by one run and take them down three at a time and you can do that consistently and perform well under pressure, if you've got that kind of control, you're worth a lot of money in that arena because the supply is low and the demand is high. 
   Well, with energy the supply is low and the demand is high, just like it is for a very talented basketball player or a very talented attorney or a very talented actress or a very talented CEO. So how do you reverse this when you're dealing with the American people, whose standard of living and quality of life is wrapped up in this cost of energy? And, Madam Speaker, I will submit that we must increase the supply of energy, in every category that we intend to use energy, we need to increase the supply. 
   Now, if you'll imagine, Madam Speaker, in your mind's eye, a pie chart, a 360-degree pie chart of all the components of our sources of energy, and that would include gasoline and diesel fuel and natural gas and clean burning coal. It would include wind energy, solar energy, ethanol, biodiesel and biomass, hydroelectric, and it would include nuclear. And also on that pie chart, we need to add a slice in there for energy conservation because energy conservation is--on this, Madam Speaker, I agree with the majority party. Energy conservation is an important component of our overall energy solution. 
   But there is no energy solution that has been offered by the leadership here. We do not have a commonsense solution that's been offered by the leadership. We have pieces of legislation that raise the cost of energy, blocking certain parts of the publicly owned lands from drilling. And the places where we could drill, there has already been a blockage of being able to transport natural gas or oil through those public lands. So we have taken millions of acres of oil-producing lands off-limits, off-limits to the American people, while we are dependent on foreign oil. The exact opposite that I believe that we should do. 
   And we're not drilling in ANWR. Now, ANWR, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, whoever named that was really thinking ahead if they thought that they wanted to lock up a lot of energy underneath the frozen tundra. But I went up there to look at that land. I really thought that if I would get up there, I would find ANWR, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge--I believed I would get there and it would be teeming with wildlife. I thought caribou would be running all over the place and there would be some wolves there picking off the strays, and I thought there would be some musk-oxen and maybe some Arctic fox, and I thought I would see an alpine forest because I had seen that in one of the commercials that said ``Don't drill ANWR.'' 
   Well, I went up there, and I did actually do the research to find out where the furthest-most northerly tree is. If you remember, Madam Speaker, I think you and I learned this in eighth grade science class that the Arctic Circle and the Antarctic Circle are lines around the globe--on the northern hemisphere, the Arctic Circle is a line around the globe, north of which trees don't grow. So it shouldn't be a surprise to anybody to find out there are no trees in ANWR. And it was a surprise to me to find out that there is no resident caribou herd there. I did see four musk-oxen as we flew all over ANWR looking for some wildlife. We saw that and two white birds, and that was the extent of it, although there are some whales that get harvested as they swim along the shoreline and there are some polar bears that live up there along the shore. So it's not without wildlife. 
   But we drilled in the North Slope of Alaska back in 1973--1972 and 1973 was when it began. There was a great concern about disturbing the natural regions up there and a concern that we would tear up the natural tundra and it could never be replaced again and that there would be oil spills that soaked up that couldn't be cleaned up. 
   And, Madam Speaker, I went up there and found out that we have drilled in the North Slope, and we have done it well. And if we fly across that North Slope and look around, I couldn't identify a single oil well, not one. They are all submersible pumps set down below the ground level. And the pads that are there for workover are places that they drive to on ice. So when the ice melts in the summer, there's no sign that anybody approached the well. And the caribou herd went from 7,000 head in 1972 to 28,000 head as of a couple, 3 years ago. That's a fourfold increase in caribou herd in the North Slope in Alaska, in a region that was alleged to have been  poised before it was drilled to having the wildlife and the natural environment there damaged significantly. It has not been, and there is no example that it was. The only example that we can find is that caribou like to get up on the higher ground where the wind blows the flies off of them and they like to have their calves up there out of the water; so their population has increased. But those are the caribou herds that are resident to the North Slope of Alaska, but there are no caribou herds that are residents in ANWR. So the natural animal life there won't benefit quite as much except the caribou do migrate into ANWR to have their calves in the spring starting about mid-May, early to mid-May, and then along about mid-June or the latter part of June when the calves are strong enough, they walk back over to Canada, where they actually do live. 
   But in that whole region in the North Slope, no 
   spills, no measurable impact on the environment. And we can do the same thing, only better, in ANWR. We can do it with about a 2,000-acre footprint, and we can drill directionally, and we can open that up and we can bring that oil over to the Alaska pipeline, pump it down to Valdez, and put it on tankers and ship it like we have done out of Alaska for years and years successfully. That oil needs to come out. It needs to come out of the ground. It needs to go into the marketplace. 
   You cannot defy the law of supply and demand. If you shut down the supply and the demand remains the same, the price goes up. If you increase the demand and you keep the supply the same, the price goes up. We have both of those things happening. We have a demand increase, and we have a supply growth that's being shut down. 
   And not only that, Madam Speaker, but instead of voting down drilling on publicly owned land, and I will say nonnational park public lands, we need to open up our nonnational park public lands for drilling. We need to do that. We need to drill in the Outer Continental Shelf, primarily offshore Florida, where we know there are at least 406 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. And where the people who are sitting on the beach, there's a concern that if they have information that there's a drill rig out there at 199 miles, though you can't see it much beyond about 12 miles, but if there's a drill rig out there offshore at 199 miles, some folks are afraid that people won't go sit on the beach if they hear a rumor that there's a drill rig out there. So we shut off a 200-mile limit for exploration when a country like this needs the natural gas and a country like this needs the oil. We need to drill the Outer Continental Shelf all the way up and down our coast off of California, all the way north as far as there is energy. We need to tap into it. We need to tap into it all, Madam Speaker, and put it all on the market. 
   And we need to add into that the alternative energy uses that we have. We have developed a tremendous industry in renewable fuels. And I speak from a base of, I will say, experience, and I represent the Fifth Congressional District of Iowa. There are 435 congressional districts in Iowa, and of the 435 districts, there's only one that produces the most renewable energy, and that's the Fifth District of Iowa, when you count ethanol, biodiesel, and wind. 
   But I see my good friend from California, former chairman, now ranking member of the Armed Services Committee, Mr. Duncan Hunter, to whom I'd be so happy to yield. 
   And I appreciate your being down here, DUNCAN.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time, Madam Speaker, I very much appreciate the gentleman from California (Mr. Hunter) for coming to the floor and filling us all in on this report. 
   I look at the statistics, and absolutely I support the mandate of Congress. You say 700 miles, but when you calculate curves in the border, it comes out to 854 miles, as the gentleman has said. The 22 metric tons of drugs and you add to that the 368 tons of---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Of marijuana. And I happen to know that the value of those drugs coming across our southern border are $65 billion worth of illegal drugs.     
   That is with a B. To try to get one's mind around $65 billion; what is that? Well, for example, PEMEX, Mexican nationalized oil company, produces about $28 billion worth of oil pumped out of Mexico and along the Gulf; $28 billion. This is about 2 1/2 times the value of all the illegal drugs coming into the United States. The 250,000 criminal illegal aliens that are incarcerated in the United States amounts to 27 percent of the criminal population, the inmate population in our Federal penitentiaries, and there is a report that came out in April of 2005 that shows that we are funding about one out of every four prisoners that apply. And you do the math on that, and it comes out to about 25 percent of our State and local prisons are criminal inmates there as well. 
   So when I look at what happens in places like Israel, where they have built a fence that has been almost 100 percent effective, you can't make the  argument, I don't believe, that it's not effective when you put up a barrier to keep people out. It's a lot different than building a Berlin Wall, for example, to keep people in. This is a barrier to keep people out. And with those that do come in, the crime that comes in with that, as the gentleman from California said, a reduction of 56.3 percent in the Smugglers Gulch area. 
   There are Americans that are dying every day in this country at the hands of people that if they were simply kept in the country where they are citizens, their crimes would be perpetrated someplace else. The measure of that is far greater than our casualties in the Middle East. I don't think there's any way to calculate it otherwise. 
   As I add to this argument, I ought to point out also that the news I saw showed that in Tijuana over the weekend there was a running drug gang fight where they were driving through the streets, shooting at each other, with tourists around and residents around, and the number that I saw was 13 killed, and those that were killed, the way I understood it, were all criminal drug gangs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I want to reiterate too the utilization of the waiver. As I have tracked that through the news, I also commend Secretary Chertoff for utilizing the waiver to go forward and build the fence. As the gentleman from California references, the fence and the triple barriers that exist down in the southwestern Arizona area, San Luis, south of Yuma, I remember visiting there and asking the question of Secretary Chertoff, We always hear the statement if you build, I will show you an 11-foot ladder, you build a 20-foot fence, I'll show you a 21-foot ladder. 
   I saw the fence down there, and as I asked this question, Has anyone defeated this barrier, and it had to be asked a number of times, and the answer came back no. When I was there, no one had defeated the new triple fencing barrier that was constructed in the San Luis area where the crossings have gone down from 138,000 to 4,000. 
   I ask the gentleman from California, are you aware that anyone has defeated the triple barrier fence anywhere? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from California, who has been the leader on this fence and made sure the first got built and is here making sure that we get the last of it built. I just submit we don't have to build exactly 2,000 miles of fence to get this all done. I submit we build the Duncan Hunter 700/854 miles of fence and then we will just keep right on building as long as they keep going around the end. If they stop going around the end, we can stop building fence. If they start going around the end, we'll start building some more. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from 
   California. There's a lot more to be taken up on that. As a matter of transition on the cost of this border, we are spending $8 billion on our southern border. When you calculate the cost of funding Border Patrol and all their equipment and all of the costs that are associated with that, as well as the costs of ICE and the enforcement that we have along on the border, about $8 billion a year. That is $4 million a mile. Now we can build interstate for that kind of money. Instead, we just simply want to build a couple of fences with some sensors on it and invest that money and get the return back in the first year. 
   As we recruit Border Patrol that come to work, I ask them to keep your spirits up and get tied into the mission. Often there is a loss of notion on that lack of mission if it's not clearly articulated. There isn't a place to compromise the law. When someone violates it, we must enforce it and follow through with prosecution. We need to put the resources in your hands so you can do that. You are brave Americans serving this country, serving us well. I go down along that part of the border and sit down in nice quiet meetings with brave Americans that are serving this country and I hear your stories. I hear them anonymously sometimes. And I sit along the border in the dark at night and watch and listen as the infiltration comes through. 
   I have got a sense of what you're up against. I'm sure I don't appreciate it the way you do, being faced against it every day. I appreciate the work, as this Congress does, and I appreciate the gentleman from California coming to the floor. 
   I wanted to swing back to the energy piece of this, Mr. Speaker, and as I talked about the different components of the energy pie, the overall pie chart, our sources of energy, and I listed a whole series of them: Gas, diesel, biodiesel, and nuclear, wind. The list goes on. Not necessarily to repeat them all, but just to refresh in our eye the things we are talking about here from the sources of energy that we have.  
   I was in the process of making the statement that of all 435 congressional districts in America, there is one congressional district that produces more renewable energy than any other congressional district. That is the Fifth Congressional District of Iowa. We are in the top three in ethanol production of all the congressional districts. We are the top biodiesel-producing district of all of the congressional districts. We are in the top one to four on wind. Perhaps today we are third or maybe second on wind generation of electricity. If you add up the Btu's we are converting into renewable energy sources, the Fifth District produces more than anybody else. So we ought to know a little more about it. 
   First of all, and I need to debunk some of the myths that are out there. One of them is a myth, it is a myth that it takes more energy to produce ethanol than you get out of the ethanol. That is a myth. There was a college professor that did a study that went back and added up all the energy it would take to produce the tractor and smelt the steel and produce the rubber for the tires and transport the tractor and the combine and the cultivator and the application equipment all the way to the farm field. They calculated all of the energy that it took to do that, as well as the energy it took to make seven passes over the field, if I remember that number correctly. It didn't add up quite good enough yet so they charged against the energy consumption to produce ethanol, this is to raise a crop of corn, by the way, 4,000 calories a day for the farm workers because it takes energy to keep them going. 
   When you get to that point, Mr. Speaker, you have to know that they are grasping at straws, they are reaching pretty hard to try to pull in as many ways that they can describe that there's energy consumption in ethanol production through corn. Well, let me submit, Mr. Speaker, that first of all, if you add all that up, then you can make anything so inefficient, we couldn't possibly do it. But the corn is going to be raised anyway. So that description isn't valid and it's not a rational way to compare how much energy that we are getting out of corn versus how much energy it takes to produce the equipment that raises the farm crop. 
   If we are going to measure the amount of energy used to produce tractors and combines that are used in the field, along with the diesel fuel or the gas that is in the tractor and in the combine and in the trucks that haul the grain away, then by the same comparison we have got to look at the energy that is consumed when we produce gasoline out of crude oil. It isn't just an inequation of a barrel sitting at the refinery of Texas. It is all of the military that has to go over to defend the oil fields. It's the anchor, all the energy it takes to cast the anchor for the battleship and all the energy it takes to produce weaponry of all kinds, and the F-16s that have to fly in the air and the bullet proof vests and armored Humvees. How much energy does it take to drive an army? Are they consuming 4,000 calories a day? Perhaps they are. In fact, I'd submit more than that, as much as they are up against. 
   If you add all that up, you can compare that to the energy it takes to produce tractors and combines and energy in the form of ethanol out of corn. But I will submit that that is a ridiculous path to go down to try to prove something. I think that the study that said that it took more energy to produce ethanol, the specious one about measuring the energy it took to produce the tractor to farm the corn is a specious study and it is invalid and it was grasping at straws. 
   When the same people go back and calculate what it takes to put an army in the field and a navy in the sea and an air force in the air and how much fuel to drive all of that, compare that and the energy you get out of the crude oil versus the energy you get out of corn, we are still going to look really good, although neither comparison is valid. 
   So what is valid is this. We are going to raise the corn anyway. We have the oil out there coming out of the ground anyway. So what is valid is each one of them has a commodity price, and as ADAM SMITH said, the value of anything in the marketplace is the sum total of the capital that it takes to produce it and the labor that it takes to produce it. So when you add up the capital and the labor, and you look at the price, the market price, you will have those two things together. 
   For example, crude oil has gone up by the barrel from, not that long ago, $50 a barrel, to $118 or $119 a barrel. That more than doubled over the last year and 15 months or so.     
   Why is that? Because of supply and demand. Because it has gotten more scarce, because there is more demand on the oil, and because the cost of capital and production and labor have gone up. 
   So we measure the value of the commodity in the marketplace. What does it command when it is marketed as a commodity? What is corn worth by the bushel, what is crude oil worth by the barrel? That is how we determine what it is worth. 
   I will submit this, Mr. Speaker, and that is that if we put a barrel of crude oil sitting outside the gates of the refinery, let's just say in Texas, and we are going to have to refine that crude oil and do what we call crack gas out of that crude oil, that takes energy to do that. And the energy that it takes to crack one Btu out of gasoline out of crude oil is 1.3 Btus of energy to do so. 
   If you put a bushel of corn sitting outside the gates of an ethanol plant in Iowa, for example, anyplace in the corn belt, and you are going to produce one Btu out of that corn in the form of ethanol, it will take .67 Btus of energy input to get one Btu out in ethanol in the form of corn. 
   If you do that in gasoline coming out of crude oil at the refinery in Texas, you will use up 1.3 Btus to get one Btu back. It is almost, by modern numbers, actually, twice as much energy consumed to produce gasoline from crude oil as it takes to get ethanol out of corn. That is a laboratory fact. It is not a negotiable one, it is not an opinion, it is a laboratory fact. 
   And they worry about water consumption, how much water does it take to produce ethanol for the amount of water that it takes to produce gasoline. Cracking gasoline takes significantly, multiple times more water than producing ethanol out of corn. Cracking gas out of crude oil, a lot more water than ethanol out of corn. 
   So we take care of those two arguments. Those things stand up with laboratories tests. Those are finite numbers. They are not negotiable. They are a matter of scientific fact. It isn't even ``settled science,'' in the way Al Gore would say his opinion is. It is laboratory facts. 
   So, now we have this ethanol, and we have put it into the marketplace and we have produced upwards perhaps in the last year somewhere near 9 billion gallons of ethanol. And that is putting a dent into the overall supply. We are burning about 142 billion gallons of gasoline in a year, so the 9 million gallons of ethanol is approaching that level where it is significant in its contribution in keeping the cost of energy down. 
   But the argument comes back then to me and across the airwaves of this country, Mr. Speaker, that we have high food prices because the production of ethanol has taken corn off the marketplace and made food prices higher. 
   Now, why is it that people that don't understand the law of supply and demand when it comes to the cost of energy can all of a sudden discover the law of supply and demand when it comes to food prices, and then misinform themselves for the suitability of their own argument? 
   So it works like this: We don't consume a lot of field corn for human consumption. Most of it, if it is not processed into some 300-some different products, but most of the field corn is used in livestock feed and it does get converted into food that way. 
   But here is how this works. In 2007 we produced 13.1 billion bushels of corn. Of that, we exported 2.5 billion bushels of corn. That left 10.6 billion bushels back for us, 10.6 billion to use here domestically. Of that, we converted 3.2 billion into ethanol, a little over 9 billion gallons of ethanol. That left 7.4 bushels of corn for domestic production. That 7.4 billion gets added back to it at least half of the corn that we use for ethanol, because there is a high grade animal feed product that is a by-product of ethanol production. That would be about 1.6 billion bushel equivalent added back in.  
   So we end up with exactly, by my calculation here, 9.0 billion bushels of corn to be used here domestically for animal feed, for processing into the things that we process it into. And so the argument would be, well is that 9.0 billion bushel, is that more or less corn than we normally have for domestic production? 
   We pushed our production up, and over the last 6 years we have produced an average of only 10.3 billion bushels of corn, and we have exported about 2 billion. So that takes us down to 8.3 billion bushels of corn available in an average year. Last year there was 9 billion bushels available. And yet the people who don't understand the law of supply and demand when it comes to energy seem to think that even though we have more domestic corn available on the market here in the United States, even after we exported more corn than ever before, somehow they think that is what is driving up food prices. 
   Mr. Speaker, I submit food prices are driven up because of energy costs, not because of the supply and demand on corn, because we have more corn. And so all we have to do is look at the numbers to understand this and realize the cheap dollar has been driving up commodity prices for food, it has been driving up gas prices, it has been driving up the cost of defense. 
   I would be happy to yield to my friend from California. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from California for bringing his background and expertise to this. Sometimes there is a different view on things between California and Iowa, and I don't find that to be the case when it comes to common sense, particularly when it has to do with energy production and when it has to do with the immigration issues that are there. 
   I have, of course, traveled to ANWR and seen the situation up there. I would add also that the people that believe that we are going to run out of energy supply here in the world and so somehow we should not tap into the known energy, what would be a better time to go where we know we have a lot of energy than right now, get up to Alaska and drill that? 
   We are hearing also announcements of huge energy finds around the globe. For example, we know that there are tremendous reserves of oil off the West Coast of Africa, and offshore is a good thing in that part of the world because it is actually easier to provide security offshore than onshore in some of those areas. Brazil has announced two huge crude oil finds, oil fields, there. And with the Chevron find in the Gulf of Mexico a year-and-a-half or so, it was another huge find. And they announced the other day there are 3.4 billion barrels of oil in the North Dakota and Montana area, in that overthrust area they were drilling in 20 or 25 years ago. Now they go down about 10,000 feet and they have to drill then from there horizontally with new technology, and they can draw the oil out. There are 3.4 billion barrels of oil up there, along with one of the world's largest oil supplies, the oil sands area in northern Alberta, which we hope to build a pipeline down and tap that in and refine it here in the United States. We have got that going on. We have a nuclear power plant under construction in South Carolina today. So we are taking some steps. 
   But the barrier here in this Congress, the leadership that is provided currently with the people that hold the gavels, it is all about cutting down on the supply of energy and raising the price, because I think that they believe, and maybe the gentleman from California is better tuned into this myopic belief, but I think they believe that if they can raise the cost of energy and take supply down, people will ride bicycles and park their car. And that doesn't help grandma very much in January in Iowa when she is 10 miles away from town. But if they ride bicycles more and then drive up the cost of everything we do, somehow that saves the environment and saves the planet. That is what I hear coming out of the voices in Congress. 
   I would ask for the judgment of the gentleman from California. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. As the gentleman knows, my view on this, and I think we would concur, is that I always say grow the size of the energy pie. Take every slice of that pie. Let's produce more domestic gas, more domestic diesel fuel and more cleaning burning coal. Let's keep wind energy going, and whatever we can do economically with solar, and expand the nuclear. I would expand the hydroelectric if I could do it and add the ethanol and biodiesel to it. I am sure I am leaving somebody out. But if you can find a way to produce energy and get it into the marketplace, biomass is another one. 
   We have got some closed systems coming now where we can take an ethanol plant and ship corn in there, feed the corn; the glutton or the dried distiller grain comes out and gets fed to cattle in the feedlot; it is converted to beef; and then the manure goes into biomass and creates the energy that drives the ethanol plant. It is a closed system. 
   We are developing systems now where we can take the byproduct and convert that into a high concentrated CO  
   2 environment and produce photosynthesis which traps the carbon gas out and turns it into cellulose and energy. We are only in the first phase of renewable energy production, and, as the technology develops, each piece of it as it comes forward to me is just fascinating how far we will be able to go. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY IN AMERICA -- (House of Representatives - April 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from California. 
   Mr. Speaker, I just hope that we all recognize that it is getting towards evening here in Washington, D.C., and there are some folks that do go off and go to bed or call it a day. The gentleman from California has worked diligently in this Congress for more than 20 years, and I recognize that and appreciate it. 
   As I move forward here on the energy policy, I wanted to reiterate this equation so that the point on ethanol efficiency, Mr. Speaker, does come home in a clear way. It is this: We have more corn available to us domestically now than we had as an average over any time in the last 20 years that I can come up with for records.  
   It works like this: In 2007, we produced 13.1 billion bushels of corn. I believe that is the largest crop ever. Out of that, we exported more corn than we had ever exported before, to foreign countries, just shipped it off in the form of grain. We exported 2.5 billion bushels of corn. That left us 10.6 billion bushels left, and out of that we took 3.2 billion bushels and produced ethanol with it, around 9 billion gallons of ethanol.     
   And, we get to add back in--that left 7.4 billion bushels for domestic consumption, which is real close to the average available for domestic consumption over the last 6 to 7 years, but half of the corn that went off to be produced into the 9 billion gallons of ethanol gets added back into the formula because it goes back into high-quality animal feed. So, we end up with an effective remaining amount of 9 billion bushels of corn into the domestic market here in the United States where the average previous years in the same decade comes to about 7.6 billion bushels of corn available for domestic consumption here in the United States. 
   So, we increase the supply of corn for domestic consumption even though we exported more corn than we had ever exported before, even though we produced 9 billion gallons of ethanol. And all of that, and we get the allegation made by the slightly informed that food prices are up because we have turned more corn into ethanol and that has hurt us. It has actually been a big help. 
   And what we can do is we can take that number and try to be logical about it and realize that the high price for food comes from two things. One is the cheap dollar; the cheap dollar that if we would take the price of energy up--if we would uphold the value of our dollar, shore up the value of our dollar, we could take perhaps one-third of that cost out. And so the gasoline that we are paying $3.50 for today would be worth maybe about $2.15 if we could shore up the value of the dollar. Corn that sold cash in Iowa last week for $6 a bushel would be around $4 a bushel. Say it is 55 or 60 cash today, it would take it down to below $4 a bushel if we could take one-third of that out by shoring up the dollar. It would slow down some of our exports and it would change some of the equations, but it would add more stability into overall markets, and we should do that. 
   But there is a great big future for corn-based ethanol. And it is not a full solution by any means; and in fact, if I look at our corn production and look at our gasoline consumption, I have to think that somewhere in that 13 or 14 percent category is about where we end up, Mr. Speaker, of how much of the gasoline in this country we can substitute ethanol for. But that is a part of it. And if we can get 13 or 14 percent, it surely was worth it to start building wind chargers to produce electricity when we thought we would have to cap that off at about 15 percent because it is not a stable enough supply to produce all of the energy that we could have. And that is a tremendous capital investment, Mr. Speaker. 
   So, this corn does have a future. And it has got a future in ethanol, and it is a future that needs to be sustained and maintained by this Congress. The blenders credits have got to stay in place, and we have got to maintain the import duty on Brazilian ethanol, because if we take that off, we will be building infrastructure to produce more ethanol in a place like Brazil. They can produce, they can build their own infrastructure with their own capital. We need to put capital back into the corn belt and into the ag areas of the United States so that we can build out this renewable energy infrastructure. If we do that, we will have an industry there that will provide renewable fuels over and over again. 
   And the people that argue that corn ethanol has a carbon footprint know the worst that you can say for it is it is carbon neutral, because the carbon that is sequestered by the photosynthesis is released, some of it, back in the atmosphere in the form of CO  
   2. But we can convert that CO 
   2 into a useful byproduct. We are in the process of developing it. I believe we have the science to do that. We don't have it up to the industrial proven model yet.
   But I would argue this, Mr. Speaker: That about $5.50 bushel a corn, by the time we process not quite 3 gallons a bushel out of that corn into ethanol we get about $7 worth of ethanol out of that bushel of corn. And then when we add to that where through the fractionization process we crack out the germ, and out of the germ we take the oil. And the oil, some of it is there, it is for food grade consumption high quality oil that is worth about 85 cents a pound now. And then we get a lower grade oil that goes into biodiesel. And so we could take the corn oil, some goes to human consumption, some goes into biodiesel. That taking the corn oil out allows then the remaining grain to leave a residue for a dried distiller's grain that can then be digested by hogs and poultry because the oil is out. It is the oil that gives them a problem. 
   So if we do the fractionization process of the corn and take the germ out and take the oil out of the germ, when we are done, this is a more useful feed than what it is today, it is more versatile, because it can go to a lot of different livestock where right today cattle have an advantage. $7 worth of ethanol and a bushel of corn. 
   By the time you add up the dried distiller grain feed amount, and by the time we take the CO  
   2 and convert that into a useful byproduct by using photosynthesis and converting it into biodiesel and the residue of that going back as a feed grain, we capture it all. We capture it all and roll it into something useful. And the short back-of-the-envelope calculation comes to about $7 worth of ethanol in a bushel of corn that is worth about $5.50 and another $7 worth of high-value product that we used to call byproduct. 
   When the byproduct gets to be worth more than the primary product, then the byproduct is no longer a byproduct. We could actually get that point. And, I had better not utter those words into the Congressional Record, Mr. Speaker, but we have made significant progress. And the value added on this bushel of corn at about $5.50 turns into about $14 if we do this right, with no carbon footprint, a carbon plus instead of a carbon neutral. No downside on this. And it takes half the energy to produce a Btu in the form of ethanol out of the corn as compared to gasoline out of crude oil. It takes a lot less water. 
   And, by the way, the water that it takes to grow the crop, the folks that are critical, they will say they will charge all the water off as if we irrigated that corn. About 12 percent of the corn in America is irrigated; the balance of it is just God's watering it for us. And so it is going to rain anyway. If it is going to rain anyway on that field, you can't charge that water usage against ethanol production, Mr. Speaker. It defies common sense to see such logical contortionisms going on on the parts of the critics that will not stand down here and lay out fact against fact against fact. 
   Facts are, we have more corn available for domestic consumption than ever before. We have exported more corn than ever before. And, we have produced, we have turned more corn into ethanol than ever before. We have done all of those things all in the same year, and the inflated costs of food has not related in a significant way to the overall cost of grain. It is more related to the cheaper dollar than it is the supply and demand of the commodity corn. 
   And so, Mr. Speaker, I submit that we are on the right path, and we need to put more into the infrastructure and we need to produce more ethanol. And, if we can do that, we are helping to solve this problem. And, by the way, food prices appreciated by about 4.9 percent over the last year. Energy prices, Mr. Speaker, appreciated 18 percent over the last year. And a significant portion of the food price appreciation, the increase came because of energy price increases. The cost of energy has a lot more to do with the cost of food than the supply and demand of that food does, because an energy component goes into everything, the distribution and the processing of it, as well as the raising of it. 
   And so how high would gas be today if you took 9 billion gallons off the market as we put 9 billion of ethanol in? If you took that 9 billion gallons off the market, how much more costly would gasoline be today and how might it change the equation? 
   I will submit, Mr. Speaker, that food is cheaper today because of corn-based  ethanol. And I would submit that the energy we have today is cheaper because of corn-based ethanol; and, that this equation works out very good for the farm bill, too, because, for example, in 2005, there is a government program, a subsidy that has been there since the 1930s, it paid out in 2005 $6.8 billion in counter-cyclical and loan deficiency payments. The counter-cyclical and LDPs paid out a total of $6.5 billion in 2005. By 2006, the subsequent year, commodity prices were up high enough that that zeroed out. There was no $6.8 billion going into counter-cyclicals and LDPs. And if you charge that all to ethanol demand--and I have already made the argument you don't. But if you do, if you sustain and you are on the side of this argument, Mr. Speaker, that it really was the consumption of corn through ethanol that drove up the price, then you have to also argue that the $6.8 billion in farm subsidies disappeared because of ethanol. 
   So, at no cost to the taxpayer and a program that had been there in some form or another since the 1930s, we did pay back in that same year $3 billion in blenders credit. So there was a net savings to the taxpayers of $3.8 billion out of the $6.8 billion that was subsidized the year before. That is pretty good, too. 
   I don't know of a way that we can do this calculation in a macro national perspective and not come up with corn-based ethanol as a great big plus for the country. It is more energy. It doesn't reduce our food supply, at least by the numbers that we have. Now, if we go overboard, it can. And it doesn't taken away from our export of corn. We still exported more corn than ever before. We have more corn available on the market. It takes about half as much energy to produce a Btu out of corn at the ethanol plant as it does to produce a Btu of energy in the form of gasoline at a refinery out of crude oil. 
   All of these numbers that I produced here are based in fact, and I can anchor the foundation numbers down by laboratory numbers, Mr. Speaker. This is a picture of the real facts, and I challenge those folks who disagree to come up with something that is solid, a calculation. Give me something that is empirical. Don't give me your feelings, don't give me your senses. Don't say, gee, I just feel this or I feel that. Look at the whole picture, look at the big picture, but look at the composition of the numbers, build a formula there, and see what it does for America. We are on the right track, not the wrong track. 
   I recognize that the gentleman is here from Maryland who has the next special order. In that case, and out of deference to him, I would, Mr. Speaker, thank you for your attention here tonight and I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the ranking member for yielding. 
   Mr. Speaker, you know, we are here not really talking about the issue of rights. I haven't found anyone yet who has had their rights trampled on, their rights to be free from unreasonable search and seizure, as the chairman announced from the beginning. 
   As I look at what is going on here in policy, there is a situation going on right now in New York, in that area, where you have contractors that answered the call and the crisis of 9/11, and they are under lawsuits by the thousands, and I think we are in pretty much unanimous agreement that we should indemnify them for answering the call to protect America. I don't understand the difference between why we would not want to indemnify an information company that answered the call to protect America. 
   To me, those are the closest two comparisons that we can get. If we protect contractors when they went to that smoking hole in that war zone, why won't we protect telecommunication companies when they stepped up on good faith and believed that they were legally operating under the law? 
   Where is that first citizen that has had their privacy violated? I haven't found one yet. None have been brought forward. I sat in hours of classified briefings. No one even uttered the name of a person who had their rights violated. 
   The chairman talked about restoring the proper balance. Well, here is the thing that sits behind this restoring the proper balance. This is from page 8 of the AT&T letter. ``The legal paradox has implications not just for the carrier defendants, but for the Nation's security in general. It suggests to private companies that even good-faith cooperation is apparently authorized, and lawful intelligence activity can expose them to serious legal and business risk. This creates incentives to resist cooperation.'' 
   That sets up a scenario where we are saying to companies, cooperate with us, but you might have to face, and will face, billions and billions of dollars of lawsuits, two score more of lawsuits, two dozen or more aggregated under a single court, Ninth Circuit, San Francisco, and they are watching their share values go down and watching their opportunities diminish around the world. And then we put them in the face of the paradox, what do you do if there is another attack on America? 
   These scales of justice are now out of balance because the trial lawyers have put this thing out of balance, and the political pressure and the risk to the American people of the security of being attacked again are what is weighing on the other side. When the fear of attack gets greater and when the political benefit becomes that point, then we will offset the trial lawyers and we will get a bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY SOLUTIONS -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I appreciate the honor to be recognized to address you here on the floor of the House of the United States Representatives. I have a series of subjects that I am interested in moving forward on. 
   Before I broach those subjects that might be illustrated on my left, I yield so much time as he may consume to the gentleman from east Texas, Mr. LOUIE GOHMERT. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY SOLUTIONS -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Texas, reclaiming my time, and I thank him for this transfer of wealth of knowledge to us, which we know in the brief time we have is a small component of the big picture but it adds a piece to the puzzle of the energy picture that we have been painting here every day in this 110th Congress for months and months and months, including every day, Mr. Speaker, that the House was designed to be adjourned for the August recess, as it's called. Republicans were here on this floor. Those cameras shut off, these microphones shut off, the lights shut down. We stayed here every single working day to carry the case to thousands of the American people who we brought down here on the floor of the House of Representatives to experience what a real debate was like, a real discussion was like.     
   I spent six to seven days here myself, Mr. Speaker. And although I saw a couple of Democrats lead a tour of people down here on the floor, I saw not one single one engage in this debate. The floor is always open for legitimate debate, and when it happens, I hope it is facts and not anecdotes. 
   A person who delivers this thing from a factual and occasional anecdotal but always a solid philosophical perspective is the gentleman from Michigan, the chairman of the Policy Committee, duly elected by his peers, and that is the gentleman from Michigan, Mr. Thaddeus McCotter, to whom I will yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY SOLUTIONS -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Michigan. And it occurs to me as I listen that not only is there no energy bill on the floor, there has been only one appropriations bill come through the House of Representatives, where all appropriations have to begin, Mr. Speaker, and that appropriations bill, of course, hasn't gone anywhere in the Senate. And this is the longest period of time in the history of the United States of America that this Congress has failed to do its duty and responsibly pass appropriation bills, that have to begin here by Constitution, do go over to the Senate, are to come back here in a conference report, generally speaking, unless the Senate agrees, and go to the President for his signature. 
   We are here knew on the eve of the seventh anniversary of September 11th. Tomorrow is the day, the seventh anniversary. And yet a few days later, at midnight, September 30th, if this Congress doesn't act, if the responsible assignments that should come from the Speaker of the House aren't brought forward, Mr. Speaker, this government shuts down. That means it shuts off all money going to the various departments of government. 
   I do not think that will be allowed to happen, because that would be too obvious to the American people as to what is going on here. But there is no energy bill. There are no appropriation bills. 
   But what we have seen in this 110th Congress is 40 resolutions, 4-0, 40 resolutions have been brought to the floor of the House of Representatives designed to unfund, underfund, or undermine our troops. We took votes on them and debated them intensively. And none of them went anywhere, Mr. Speaker, except they made their political statement, which encouraged our enemies, discouraged our allies, discouraged our troops, and said to them that this Congress wasn't behind them. 
   I heard Member after Member say, ``I support the troops, but I oppose the mission.'' I would submit that that is philosophically inconsistent. You simply can't take a position that says I want our troops to know that I am behind them, but I am not behind them if they have to go out and put themselves in harm's way in an operation that I disagree with. 
   This Congress voted to authorize the President to use military force in the places and locations that we are. And once that vote goes up, we are to stand together, not divided, and we are not to be going to foreign countries to negotiate with terrorists, tyrants, dictators, or any parts of any evil empire, carrying on foreign policy out of this Congress. That is the 
   President's responsibility, by Constitution the commander-in-chief, and he conducts our foreign policy, Mr. Speaker. 
   I am fairly fresh back from a trip over to some of those parts of the world that have given us a significant amount of grief since September 11th, and among those places in the world, three stops that I will speak of tonight are Iraq, Afghanistan and the sovereign state of Georgia, all in that order. 
   My report, Mr. Speaker, back from Iraq, is the easiest one and it is the most optimistic one of the three to deliver. It was my sixth trip into Iraq over the time that I have been in Congress since the beginning of Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
   Over that course of time, I have made it a point to get around the country so that I can be in the different corners to see what is going on in places like Kurdistan, in Mosul, up in Irbil, down in Basra, certainly Baghdad, up to Ramadi and over to Fallujah, a couple of times to Fallujah, Taji comes to mind, Balad comes to mind, Baja comes to mind, at some of the places that I have had the privilege to go to get a sense and a feel for the things going on in that country. 
   Always briefed by our top officers, always had an opportunity to sit down the State Department, usually the U.S. Ambassador, usually also the corps commander of our military there on the ground. I met General Petraeus for the first time in Mosul when he commanded the 101st Airborne, that was in October of 2003. And as this situation unfolded, I met with General Sanchez, General Casey, and now back to General Petraeus again as the commander of our troops in Iraq. He is posed now to be raised up to be the commander of CENTCOM, and we will see General Odierno step in as the commander of our military in Iraq, entirely capable, and I think an excellent and wonderful choice, and someone whom I have met over there as well over the course of the travels. 
   One of the things I do as well is I go into a mess hall and I meet with  Iowans. It is something unique about meeting with troops from your home State. The troops from the home State just know that you know somebody that they know if in case we don't know each other, and they will always give me the straight line because they know that we have got a reference point and they know that they can talk to me in confidence and I am not going to blow their cover, so-to-speak, and they won't get into a problem with their commanding officer out of anything that I carry on from that conversation. 
   So I am able to cross-reference what our troops on the ground know, our frontline troops, all the way up through our officer corps at all ranks, and on to our ambassador corps as well. And I find our military gives us straight answers, and they have been doing a selfless job, and they believe in their duty, and they believe in their mission, and they believe in this country, and they are there because they want to take this fight off of their children and grandchildren, and also, Mr. Speaker, your children and yours and mine grandchildren as well. 
   I agree with them and I honor and salute them for it, and I stand with them, I support them, and I support their mission, because supporting our troops and their mission is integral. It cannot be divided. You can't separate the two. They have to go together, Mr. Speaker. 
   Here is what I see in Iraq. The casualty rates, the civilian casualty rates have dropped off more than 80 percent. I know that a year-and-a-half or so ago they were picking up about 50 bodies every morning out of the river in Baghdad. The sectarian violence was that bad and the power struggle that was going on was that bad. 
   The enemies that we were fighting in Iraq a year-and-a-half ago came down to these definitions. We were fighting, of course, al Qaeda in Iraq was our number one enemy. We were fighting al Quds, the Iranian influence of their training of terrorists and their arming of terrorists. They foment terror with whomever they can. But the Iranian influence was there. 
   We were fighting Muqtada al-Sadr, his al Mahdi military, his militia. That was three. We were fighting also the Badr Brigades, a couple of different divisions, a couple of different separations or identities of them. Organized crime was another component. The pure power struggle going on within the communities was another component of fight going on a year-and-a-half ago. 
   But I would have to say that al Qaeda in Iraq was number one, probably al Quds, the Iranian influence was number two, Muqtada al-Sadr was number three. Former Ba'athists, I didn't mention them, was another enemy we had. Then organized crime, then the Badr Brigades and another Shia group that was in there. 
   So it comes to five, six or seven different enemies that were cluttering up the battlefield and causing a lot of casualties and making it difficult to know which way to turn because it was an asymmetric war. 
   Fifty bodies roughly a day being picked up out of the river in Baghdad I mentioned. The situation was grim. Al Anbar province was so dangerous that a Member of Congress could not go in there just a little more than a year-and-a-half ago. 
   So I reviewed that, and went and visited those areas that I could at that time. This was Thanksgiving, a year ago last Thanksgiving. And I went back about seven months later, probably eight months later, at the end of July last year. Things had gotten better. When I couldn't go to al Anbar province during Thanksgiving of 2006, I could go in there in July of 2007, and I did. And I went to Ramadi and in fact received a briefing there from the Marine general that was commanding that region, all of al Anbar province, and saw the change that had taken place. 
   That is the famous Sunni awakening, the Sunni awakening that was triggered by the surge, the surge which made a commitment to the military operations in Iraq, that said to the Iraqis, we are here, we are with you, and we are not leaving. 
   When that happened, it triggered the Sunni awakening, and they decided they would throw their lot in with the side that was going to be the winner. They were tired of the tyranny and the brutality of al Qaeda, and they understood who it was and what kind of people they allowed in their midst. They turned the other way and decided to join with us and provide the intel and also lead a good number of the military missions to go in and purge al Qaeda from al Anbar province. That was happening while I was there a year ago last July, Mr. Speaker. 
   And as I looked at the map that showed the mosques and what they were preaching in their services in the mosques, there was a time when it was about a 90 percent anti-coalition message. By then, by a little over a year ago, it was a 60 percent neutral message, 40 percent pro-coalition message. No mosque that they had for record was preaching an anti-coalition, anti-American message. It was a significant sea change that was taking place there. When the Iraqis, the Sunni Iraqis came around on our side, they began to purge al Qaeda from their midst. 
   A little more than a year later, I went back, 13 months later to be more accurate, Mr. Speaker, and went into some of the same regions and met with the Marine unit that was there, a different commanding general there this time, this time General Kelly. What I saw was something that was even safer yet, and much improved, al Anbar province.     
   In those trips, I went shopping in downtown Ramadi. I went back to Fallujah. There was a time I couldn't do that. Yet I'd been in Fallujah in June 2004. I wasn't able to go to Fallujah in 2006. It was too dangerous because al Qaeda owned al Anbar province, and they do not any longer. There are some traces of al Qaeda in the province, but they barely exist. They're in little camps out in the desert, and they're being mopped up by the Iraqi defense forces and by our defense forces as well, Mr. Speaker. 
   Now, 11 of 18 provinces in Iraq have been turned over to the Iraqis for primary security, and that 11th one just happened here this past week with al Anbar province being that large area. It's about a third the area of Iraq and the population only about 5 or 6 percent of it, but it was turned over to the Iraqis, 11 of 18 provinces. If you look at the map of those 11 of 18 provinces, there are those that are not yet turned over to the Iraqis for security. As to this incremental, one province at a time, if the security allows for that, those that are still under U.S. primary security responsibility are the provinces that are most likely to still have some al Qaeda in Iraq in them. They are being mopped up systematically. At the progress rate they were going, it looks to me like a year from now it's going to be hard to find ``al Qaeda in Iraq'' in Iraq. It looks like the progress that's being made is very, very positive. So there has been significant progress made there. 
   Civilian casualties are off more than 80 percent. Sectarian violence is measured this way by sectarian death. In Baghdad since mid-April, statistically, we don't have a single sectarian death on our charts. If you look at sectarian deaths in Iraq as a whole, in Iraq proper, there have been about a handful of sectarian deaths since mid-April till today. So, if you look at the line on the charts, that number was going on someplace over 2,000 in a matter of a limited period of time--and I believe it was a week--and I hesitate to say so specifically, Mr. Speaker, but that number on the chart goes up over 2,000, and now it goes down to zero on sectarian violence. 
   You see that measure. You look at American casualties in Iraq. There was a period of time for 7 weeks, from the 1st of July until into August--I think that date would be about August 18--where the combat deaths in Iraq were exactly the same as accidental deaths in Iraq for American troops. There were 15 accidental deaths and 15 hostile deaths that took place in Iraq on American troops. That's the measure that, I think, is the one that provides the most optimism for me when the relative risk to being, let's just say, in a Humvee wreck is equivalent to being shot by a sniper or from having an IED detonated in a fatal fashion. Those measures tell me that security is going up and that violence is going down dramatically. If you look at the charts on the attacks that are taking place, whether they be on Iraqi forces or on  U.S. coalition forces, all of those numbers are down. They're down to historically low levels, down to the levels where they were right after the liberation of Iraq that took place in March and in early April of 2003. That should give us great hope, Mr. Speaker. 
   The situation in Iraq today is not yet what we can call a victory, but it is, I believe, what we'll be able to look at to say we know what victory will look like from here if we can sustain these low levels of violence and if we can drive them down even further. 
   We have to remember that Iraq is a more violent country than we are here in the United States of America as a whole. So, traditionally, they've had more violence. They have more violence that comes from people settling scores, from having more grudge matches. They don't have the long tradition of the rule of law like we have in the United States. 
   I just came from a reception where I joined with Judge Juhi, who was one of the judges who sat in judgment of Saddam. Many of you will remember him--a youthful judge who was the first one to retort back to Saddam when Saddam asked him ``Who appointed you?'' Judge Juhi said, ``You appointed me and I'm doing my job.'' This man is now in the United States, and I'm proud to have him here. I'm proud to welcome him here to the American soil. I met with him in Iraq. He showed courage. He stood up for the rule of law at great risk. I recall at least one judge who was killed in this. Judge Juhi did survive this and has come through it all, and that's the kind of courage that we're seeing in the Iraqi people as they step up to defend their own freedom, Mr. Speaker. 
   Some of these measures are this: The level of security in Iraq probably never gets down to the level of security in the United States. They're a different kind of people than we are. There are more violent countries in the world than Iraq as well, and I could name you a few of them. One of them is Colombia. Their numbers have gone down, but about 3 years ago, when I committed some of their violent numbers in the world to memory, they had about 63 violent deaths per 100,000. The most violent country in the world is Swaziland. There are 88 violent deaths per 100,000 in Swaziland. That sounds horrible to think of that, that 88 out of 100,000 would be killed in a year in a country like that. Well, in Iraq, their violent death rate is down around 23 per 100,000 today. It was 27.51 back in 2005. Today, it's 23 per 100,000, and that includes the violent deaths across the country. 
   I have been accused, Mr. Speaker, of laying out, roughly, 3 years ago statistics and that this was a false quote. It was not something that I'd said, but I was accused of saying that it was more dangerous for my wife to live in Washington, DC--this is in 2005--than it was to live in Baghdad. In 2005, Mr. Speaker, we didn't have legitimate numbers on Baghdad's violent death rates, and so I didn't quote such a thing, but I can say today, Mr. Speaker, that now we do have legitimate statistics on Baghdad's violent death rates. 
   Mr. Speaker, I can tell you without hesitation that it is today more dangerous to live in Detroit than it is to live in Baghdad. It's safer to be in Baghdad than it is to be in Detroit. Do you know it's safer to be in Detroit than it is to be in Washington, DC, and it's safer to be in Washington, DC than it is to be in New Orleans, and it's more dangerous to be in New Orleans than it is to be in Swaziland? That puts it in perspective, Mr. Speaker. 
   The violent death rates go like this: 88 per 100,000 for Swaziland, 23 per 100,000 for Iraq, 41 per 100,000 for Detroit. I've got to guess at this number now because Washington, DC's numbers have gone down. They've gone down from, I think, about 46 per 100,000. That number is a little bit lower than that, but it's still above Detroit's at 41 per 100,000. New Orleans used to have a number of about 53 per 100,000. Post-Katrina, it has posted violent death rates of up to 90 violent deaths per 100,000. It's more dangerous in New Orleans than it is in Swaziland. It's more dangerous in Detroit than it is in Baghdad. It's more dangerous in Washington, DC than it is in Baghdad. That puts this all into perspective for us. As for the safety in the entire country of Iraq, aside from Baghdad averaged into that, it is still safer to live in Iraq than it is to live in Oakland, California, and it actually has been for some time. That's a sign of success. We see the film on 
   the violence that comes constantly out of that part of the world, Mr. Speaker, but we ought to also pick up on some optimism because our troops have done their job. 
   The Iraqi Government is stepping up. They're sitting on a $79 billion fund. I want to call it a surplus, but it really is not. They're having difficulty allocating those funds and in getting them out to the local political subdivisions and in getting them out to the Iraqi people. They don't have a tradition of anything except central command, and people are reluctant to make decisions for fear they will be accused of fraud or corruption. So, if you don't make a decision, you cannot be accused of doing very much, and that delay that's part of a culture of not having a delivery system is starting to cause some problems in Iraq, but it's the right kind of problem to have: $79 billion and not being able to figure out quite how to spend it. 
   They need to develop their oil industry, Mr. Speaker. They had, I believe it was, five oil companies and six contracts that they had signed to ask these oil companies to bring their technical expertise into Iraq and to evaluate inventory--the wells inventory, the supply of untapped energy that they have and the inventory of the pipelines, the delivery system, the processing, the entire network of oil. These companies were negotiated contracts. I understood they were no bid contracts. They would now be working on developing those oil fields in Iraq. Instead, Senator Schumer from New York, Senator McCaskill and, I believe, Senator Kerry from Massachusetts all lined up and signed a letter, criticizing the no bid contracts that Iraq had entered into. 
   The result of that was they pulled those contracts down, and Iraq has been set back another year on developing their oil. They're doing that at a time of record high oil prices. So the delay on this won't just be they don't get to sell that number of barrels of oil next year or the year after or the year after, but the profit that comes from high oil prices needed to be capitalized on. They're set back at least a year, Mr. Speaker, because of interference on the part of the United States Senate in the sovereign business of Iraq. We said we didn't go there for their oil. Why are we sticking our nose in that business? They wanted to award contracts to U.S. companies on a legitimate basis. Because they needed to move, they didn't have time to do bid contracts on this. They wanted to agree. They had the money. They could be working today, and they're not because of interference on the part of the United States Senate. 
   But Iraq is still moving forward, and they're producing more oil than ever before. They're producing more electricity than ever before. The oil is being refined in Baji, and it's going up the pipeline to the north and out to Turkey. It's also going down to Baghdad and on down to Basra, and it's being exported off of the two platforms that Iraq has out in the ocean. Their navy is patrolling those platforms and is providing security there. Progress is being made. There's a lot to be done in the country, but they do have an infrastructure, and they do have a tradition of education. They do sit on a lot of oil, and I believe they will for a long time be a moderate, Arab, prosperous ally to freedom in the Middle East. I'm hopeful that they will provide an inspiration for the Iranians to reach out and to grasp their own freedom in a fashion that the Iraqis have today. 
   That's Iraq, Mr. Speaker, and I'm encouraged by it, and I hope to be able to look back on this time and this date, perhaps, and see that the progress continues to be made and that the Iraqi people step up. 
   If there is anything that I'm concerned about there--and there are a number of things--it is that I'm concerned that the Iraqis are a little overconfident on their current military capability. I believe they undervalue American communications and American air cover and our backup firepower that we have and the logistics that support their operations, and so that's one of the concerns that I have about the Iraqis. 
   Another one would be, if Muqtada al-Sadr and the Iranians decided to light  it up again in Iraq, this could go south pretty fast. I don't think that al Qaeda can mount a tactical military approach again in Iraq under the situation they're in. They can do some terrorist attacks, but they can't do coordinated terrorist attacks of the magnitude they have done in the past. That's why the attacks and the violence have dropped off substantially, but you can see what victory can look like from where we are today in Iraq. 
   On the other hand, Mr. Speaker, Afghanistan is a bit of a different story. I went back to Afghanistan also a little over a week ago, and I traveled to the central and eastern and a little bit of the southern parts of the country in some regions that I hadn't been before--Kandahar. I traveled to the central and western parts of Afghanistan, to areas I hadn't been before. I had been to the east into the mountainous regions, to the northeast where the mountains go up pretty sheer, pretty vertically. It's sheer stone and rock, and there's not much going on with the exception of a little bit of civilization in the valleys. There are very narrow, little, green valleys with some vegetation. 
   I traveled west in Afghanistan, over to Kandahar, and then on down to a camp called Camp Bastion. The flight over that way is a different topography. It's mountainous, yes, but the mountains are simply dust all the way to the top with little valleys in between that are the narrowest slivers of green areas where there is some population that lives, Mr. Speaker. Then there are the high plains that lay out in a high plains desert. If you describe it in one word, Mr. Speaker, the prevailing situation in that part of Afghanistan--and it's a vast part of Afghanistan--is dust. There's dust everywhere. There's dust all the time. There's dust in the air. There's dust settling on everything. Actually, this is from Kabul all the way to the west as far as I've gone. 
   When you go through the market, you'll see the watermelons and tomatoes at this time of the year covered with dust that hovers in the air. The visibility is limited. There is meat hanging in open markets, some of it with the wrapping on it and some of it hanging out in the open, collecting dust from the air. Many times, our planes are grounded because the visibility is so low that they can't fly on or off the runway. There's dust everywhere.     
   And so dust is a prevailing piece. The roads, we built a ring highway around Iraq, and that is paved and that let's traffic get around the--excuse me--the ring highway around Afghanistan. And that's paved. It lets traffic go around that current in the ring highway, but the balance of the highways, with few exceptions, are dust, dirt, not gravel and not asphalt, not paving. They're dirt. 
   So in the summertime, this time of the year when the temperatures got to 125, it cooled off to 115 when we were there. Then the vehicles and any traffic, any animal traffic fills the air with dust. The wind blows and it fills the air with dust. Our troops get stuck in the dust. Their equipment will get stuck in the dust. It's that deep and that soft on some occasions. 
   And as the weather changes and we go into the winter time and the rainy season, then that dust turns to mud. And of course the equipment will be stuck in the mud instead of the dust. But the dusty covered mountains and the dust covered high plains going to the West from Kandahar on over, and looking across that countryside, and I asked the question of the veterans who were there that served for a long time in Afghanistan, do these mountains ever turn green? Do these high plains ever turn green? Is there vegetation that grows during a time of the season when it rains? And the answer is no. They just stay dust. And it's all dustier, except down in the narrow parts of the valleys where civilization goes up and down the valley. And that's of course where the Taliban travel, up and down the valley. And Helman Province is one of the places where we were. 
   Afghanistan produces 90 percent of the world's poppies for opium and heroin. And 90 percent of that, 80 percent of Afghanistan's poppies are raised in Helman Province. And so we were there. 
   It wasn't the poppy season. But the Taliban come up and they will front a crop and they'll say, here, I'll give you some money, half of what your crop is worth. Raise some poppies this year and I'll be back at harvest time to pick up the crop and I'll pay you the balance of what I owe you. We've got Taliban brokering, it's kind of like a farm bill or a banker; here's the front money, put your crop in, and we'll come back and collect the harvest of the opium crop that you have. We'll pay you the balance that we owe you and then they go back to Pakistan. 
   Taliban and al Qaeda will penetrate as far as they can go until they run into American troops, whether it's Marines in that area or Army troops in other areas. And there is far too much ranging of the enemy across that countryside. They've got too much freedom of movement. And yes, we're doing, I believe, as much as we can with the resources that we have there. But I look across at Pakistan, and up until a few days ago the leadership there was a jump ball. Yet, Pakistan is a sovereign sanctuary that neighbors Afghanistan. 
   I continually ask this question of our military historians, Mr. Speaker. Give me an example of an insurgency that was defeated by a foreign power, an insurgency that had a sovereign sanctuary to retreat and be resupplied and retrained and rearmed from. I've yet to get an answer to that question from any of our military historians as to when a foreign power has defeated an insurgency, when those insurgents could retreat to another country that was a sanctuary. I don't believe it's ever happened in history. 
   So the situation that we're in today, Mr. Speaker, is, we either have to rewrite history, excuse me. We have to write new history. We have to write a new precedent for how to defeat a sovereign sanctuary that had, how to defeat an insurgency that has a sanctuary in a sovereign country. We either set new precedents for history, or we are slowly learning a bitter lesson of history. And today, Mr. Speaker, I don't know the answer to that question. It will be determined by history. 
   But at this point, I don't believe that we have a lot of options for September and October or November, except to maintain and limit the movement of our enemies there. There are at least nine different identifiable enemies there. I went through the list of enemies we had in Iraq a year and a half ago. The list of enemies is down now to where they barely exist there today. 
   But over in Afghanistan they list nine enemies for me and they call them the syndicate of enemies. I can't list them all from memory, but they include the Taliban and al Qaeda, seven other groups that are, most of them are camping in the mountains and training there and mounting their attacks from those locations where they believe that they are safe from American attacks. They aren't always. Sometimes we find an opportunity to strike a target in that region as well. 
   But with the unrest in Pakistan, with the new leadership that's just taken place there, with a presidential election coming up in this country, with resources that I believe need to be refurbished and reinforced in Afghanistan, this is the time that we begin to move on the political and the economic fronts until we can set the stage to eradicate that habitat that breeds terror in Pakistan. 
   It is a very tough nut to crack. It will be very difficult. I have said for years that we would be in Afghanistan longer than we'll be in Iraq. I said that because Afghanistan is closer to the stone age. They don't have the oil wealth that Iraq has. They don't have the prosperity. They have a Gross Domestic Product of $7.5 billion, Mr. Speaker, and $4 billion of that Gross Domestic Product is the poppies. 
   So I would submit that we should just simply remind Afghanistan, Afghan farmers, it's against the law to raise poppies, and we're going to enforce the law and it'll be Americans that do it if we need to. And as I had that discussion with some of the powers that be in that country, they said to me that the poppy crop in Afghanistan was the equivalent to, it was either one or two football fields wide all the way around the world. It would be impossible to go in and spray all those poppies. 
   And I brought up the fact that we've sprayed almost, we've sprayed most of  the acres of corn and soybeans in Iowa. And we did so in 6 weeks. And we have enough spray planes parked in the hangars in Iowa that that's the off season to go over there. I think that we could take care of the poppies in Afghanistan without breaking a sweat. Might get shot at a few times, but we would end that trade in opium that is funding our enemies. 
   This is a strange, strange war, Mr. Speaker, when we're paying an exorbitant price for oil, and that money goes into the pockets of people that don't like us very much. And some of it gets into the pockets of our enemy, called the Taliban and al Qaeda and a number of other enemies. 
   At the same time, the American demand for illegal drugs is funding the poppy trade in Afghanistan, along with the European demand for illegal drugs as well. They're tapping into that, and it's another place where we're funding our enemy. So we're paying for both sides of the war. 
   We're watching our economy atrophy because the cost of energy is going up and up and up while we're marching through this long hard slog. 
   As much optimism as I have for Iraq, as much caution as I lay out here for Afghanistan, I relate to that concern, Mr. Speaker, concern for Georgia. That was the 
   last strategic stop on the trip, unless you count St. Paul, at the convention. And what I see in Georgia is this: I believe that---- 
   Well, first, to take it to the Georgia situation, Mr. Speaker, I actually went in and Googled the exact quote so I could get right. Here's my recollection, and then I'll take it to the exact quote. 
   Back in the year I believe it was 1984 was the year, if I remember correctly, that Ambassador Jean Kirkpatrick stepped down as Ambassador to the United Nations. She was appointed by Ronald Reagan. She served there and served honorably and served well, and she left a legacy, but she decided it was time for her to leave that post. And so as she stepped down as Ambassador to the United Nations, I remember seeing an article, tiny little article on page 3 or 4 of the newspaper that I was reading at the time where it quoted her as saying that was going on in the Cold War was the equivalent of playing chess and Monopoly on the same board. The contest between the super power of the United States, super power of the Soviet Union, playing chess and Monopoly on the same board. And the question was, would we bankrupt the Soviet Union economically before they checkmate us militarily. Now that statement, and she sadly passed away a couple of years ago, Jean Kirkpatrick. But that statement was made by my recollection, 24 years ago. And it has often framed the viewpoint with which I look at this super power contest that's going on. And it really framed it when I watched the Berlin Wall begin to come down on November 9 of 1989, and it framed it more when the Soviet Union imploded, and I'll pick the date December 31, 1991. We might call that the end of the Cold War, Mr. Speaker, but it was not to be. 
   Jean Kirkpatrick's exact quote, this is the way it shows up when you check it, as opposed to checking my 24-year-old memory, reads this. 1984. ``Russia is playing chess while we are playing Monopoly. The only question is whether they will checkmate us before we bankrupt them.'' That was the statement that Ambassador Jean Kirkpatrick made in 1984. That's the statement I think illustrates what was going on then during the Cold War, and I think it's the statement that illustrates what's going on now in places like Georgia. 
   Putin has expressed that the most tragic thing that's happened in his lifetime was the collapse of the Soviet Union. And I would say, no, that marked the end of the Cold War. It was one of the best things that happened in my lifetime, perhaps the best thing that's happened globally in my lifetime. We see that differently. 
   He saw the Soviet Union as a power that perhaps needs to be reconstructed. And so when Putin came to power, we saw him consolidate his power and make his moves to negate legitimate elections, set himself so that he could be the power broker in Russia and really the true power in Russia. 
   We know that President Bush has said that when he looked in Putin's eyes he sees a friend. I understand the reasons for him saying that. But when JOHN MCCAIN said, when I look in his eyes I see KGB, and I think JOHN MCCAIN sees it clearly. 
   Putin is a KGB chess player, Mr. Speaker. And he saw what happened when the wall came down in 1989 and when the Soviet Union collapsed in the end of 1991. He saw that the Soviet Union had been bankrupted economically before they could checkmate the United States militarily. He saw that Jean Kirkpatrick's analysis was correct, and he saw it play out because we were better Monopoly players with our free market economy than the Soviet Union was chess players. We got there first because our economy was stronger. We upped the ante. 
   And by the way, we played chess on the board too. We had a military escalation. We built up our military, built up our troops. Ronald Reagan called for it. And he walked out of the nuclear missile negotiations in Reykjavik, Iceland he walked away from it, to the gasps of his own staff. And he went into Berlin and he said, Mr. Gorbachev, open this gate. Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall; and down it came. And down came the iron curtain, crashing with it. And the end of the Cold War on the last day of 1991 marked the end of the Soviet Union. 
   But Vladimir Putin has been putting this back together again. Humpty Dumpty fell off the wall and had a great fall. But Humpty Dumpty is being put back together again by Vladimir Putin. 
   And here's where this--now he's learned. Now, Mr. Speaker, he's learned this; that you can play chess or you can play Monopoly, but if you're going to be a master at this global hegemony that he is playing today, if you're looking for dominance and if you're looking to be a super power, then you have to play Monopoly and chess on the same board, and you have to do it master fully. 
   So the Soviet Unions's economy wasn't that strong. It's never been that dynamic. It's been focused on central planning, Mr. Speaker. But what has come along for them as a windfall because they happen to sit on a massive amount of the world's energy and the world's oil, and with high oil prices that went up to $140 a barrel and perhaps more than that, Putin saw the cash come rolling in, so he didn't have to do a lot of smart things economically. All he had to do was keep producing oil, keep selling oil. And if he's doing that, then Russia is building up wealth and we're watching the West, the free world, we are energy consumers and we have energy deficits. 
   Europe, eastern and western Europe imports a lot of their own energy, natural gas and oil, and they import a lot of it from Russia. In fact, Europe imports 25 percent of their oil from Russia, and they import 40 percent of their natural gas from Russia. 
   So if Vladimir Putin can shut down the oil valve going into Europe, a huge oil pipeline coming into a free country means cheap energy. Energy is a component of every part of our economy. Everything that we buy and sell and trade, it takes energy to produce it, energy to deliver it, it takes energy to receive the delivery of it. It takes energy to heat our homes and our factories and air condition them and light them and get from place to place and manufacture and produce food, clothing, fiber, you name it. It all takes energy. And a nation that has an abundance of real cheap energy has a real big advantage over NATIONS that have only a little bit of energy. The high priced energy. And nations with costly energy cannot compete with other nations that have cheap energy, all other things being equal.     
   And so Putin knows that sitting there looking at this global chessboard, this global Monopoly board, simultaneously sitting on top of this oil, that if he can decide whether oil goes east or west, he can determine whether going to the east, whether China's economy prospers, or maybe the same oil going to the West, whether Eastern or Western Europe's economy prospers. 
   He built a Trans-Siberian pipeline to go to China to take Russian oil to China. And in Kazakhstan, they built an oil pipeline to take some of the massive amounts of oil they have in Kazakhstan into China. But from the same locations, Kazakhstan and that region--and here I have in this chart,  Mr. Speaker, I think I have got some of these countries, here is Kazakhstan--there's a significant amount of oil in this region here. Uzbekistan less oil, Turkmenistan even less. But this amount of oil in this region needs to come through. 
   There's a pipeline across the Caspian Sea, and then it comes from here into Georgia. This little country here, 4.6 million people, is Georgia. Tbilisi is where I was about a week ago, the capital of Georgia. This square right here is the square through which the pipelines across the Caspian Sea, the central Asian energy, oil and gas, if it's going to go to the west to get out through the Straits there at Istanbul and out into the Mediterranean and out into western Europe, it has to come through Georgia. Putin knows that. 
   He sits up here and in control of the Russian region looking at this oil that he has next door watching how it can be controlled, and it must come through Georgia. When I met with the Georgians, they said to me, ``We always knew he was going to do this. We always knew the Russians would come in and occupy our country,'' because this square, Georgia, is the square on the chessboard where he can control whether this oil in this region comes into Europe or whether it goes on to the east on over to China, just off the chart here. 
   A pipeline exists to go from Kazakhstan to China. There's a pipeline that exists from Russia that goes on into Europe, several of them actually, and a pipeline from Russia that goes down into China, Mr. Speaker. 
   This is where the valve is right here. That's where he can turn it on and he can turn it off, and he can decide if it goes east or if it goes west. If it goes to the east to China, their economy prospers; if it shuts off the oil going to the West, these economies in Europe atrophy. 
   If he can team up down here with Ahmadinejad and the Straits of Hormuz, and they can threaten to--or close the Straits of Hormuz, they can also decide whether oil goes to the West, the free world, the Western Hemisphere, or whether it is stuck up in here in the Middle Eastern region. That is a powerful position to be in. 
   If he continues to build this triumvirate--which is, I believe, Putin, Ahmadinejad, and Hugo Chavez--Chavez's oil, he can shut that off as well. He can decide whether to sell it or not and who's going to get it. 
   So if you put those three guys at the same table, Putin, Ahmadinejad and Hugo Chavez, they would have control--presuming the Straits of Hormuz could be shut down by the Iranians or with Russian help--they would have control of more than 50 percent of the world's export oil supply. They could decide oil prices for the world: running them up, allowing them to go down and/or they could decide whether that oil actually goes to those economies. They could decide whether the free world's economy would atrophy or whether it would prosper. 
   If you're in a position like that and you've had the lesson that Putin has had, he lost the Monopoly game and he checkmated his chess game, because their economy collapsed. He's learned the lesson. Now he's playing Monopoly and he's playing chess, and he's sitting on this square in Georgia. He's sitting on a massive amount of oil. He has a diabolical plan, and we're Americans sitting here naively arguing that well, we don't want to develop any American energy. 
   Mr. Speaker, we must open up all American energy now. Every form. It's imperative. Whether we're going to be a superpower 10 or 20 years from now depends on the decisions we make in this Congress today. All energy all the time. Drill ANWR, drill the Outer Continental Shelf, develop the oil from the oil shale areas in the West, open up all of our natural gas. Let's do coal, let's do nuclear, let's do ethanol, let's do biodiesel, let's do wind, let's do solar, all forms of American energy. 
   Let's save our freedom, Mr. Speaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT HATE CRIMES PREVENTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the ranking member of the Judiciary Committee yielding to me. 
   This bill before us today is one that I have dreaded seeing come before the American people. 
   I was born in 1949. That was the year that George Orwell published the book ``1984.'' I offered an amendment in committee to change the title of this bill from the Hate Crimes bill to the Thought Crimes bill. In fact, you are seeking to punish thought. And even though the gentleman from Virginia has stated correctly that under this bill, they will be prosecuting crimes, they will also be sentenced for thoughts. 
   Orwell wrote in 1949 in the book ``1984,'' ``We are not interested in those stupid crimes that you have committed. The party is not interested in any overt act. The thought is all that we care about. We do not merely destroy our enemies; we change them. Do you understand what I mean by that?'' 
   And he goes on to define ``crimethink,'' which is exactly the bill before us today. And he defines it this way: ``To even consider any thought not in line with the principles of Ingsoc. Doubting any of the principles of Ingsoc. All crimes begin with a thought. So, if you control thought, you control crime. Thoughtcrime is death. Thoughtcrime does not entail death. Thoughtcrime is death, the essential crime that contains all others in and of itself.'' 
   And the definition of ``Ingsoc'' is English socialism, which is how he defined the coming creeping of socialism and Marxism that he feared. 
   So I make that point strongly that we have now come to this. ``1984'' has manifested itself on the floor of the United States Congress with the belief that, somehow or another, we can divine what somebody thinks and then punish them for it. And I have been called a racist on the floor of this House for using the term ``cultural continuity.'' How can someone who could make that allegation who has been elected to the United States Congress be sitting on a jury of me? We judge by a jury of our peers, or the peers of the accused and what's in their mind. That's a thoughtcrime in and of itself. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (EXPRESSING SORROW OF THE HOUSE AT THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE CHARLIE NORWOOD, MEMBER OF CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF GEORGIA -- (House of Representatives - February 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in profound sorrow and gratitude for the life of CHARLIE NORWOOD. I believe I had known CHARLIE long before I came here to meet him in person. I got to know him through C-SPAN and through the media. When I met him personally, he had matched up identically with the person that I saw through the television screen. CHARLIE had that light within him, as John Shadegg said. 
   I look back at a time when CHARLIE was not feeling well. He came here whenever it was physically possible for him to do that, and I remember a day when he looked poor, but when he spoke in that microphone right there, that light came back on again and the real CHARLIE NORWOOD again blessed this Chamber with his presence. 
   America will always be grateful. Gloria, Marilyn and I want you to know that you and your family are in our prayers. We will always look over to this place on this floor where CHARLIE always sat and recognize that as CHARLIE's seat in the people's Chamber. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (SPOTTSWOOD W. ROBINSON III AND ROBERT R. MERHIGE, JR. FEDERAL COURTHOUSE -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I just wanted to say a few extra words about this resolution and about the progress that this country has made. 
   I have by now a few years on me, longer than a half century, and having grown up in the very Caucasian Midwest but traveled almost all the corners of this country and a lot of places in the world, and I have seen some examples of the segregation that existed back in those years that flowed through post-Civil War all the way up through the 1950s and 1960s and began to break down in the 1960s. And as I mentioned in my brief remarks in the opening, it is a condition today where we have a desegregation and integration that is far, far superior to what we had in our society a generation or two ago. And the young people growing up today really don't have, I think, a touch or a feel for what this Nation was like or the culture that was there. The South has transformed remarkably from what it was to where it is today. 
   I would submit that the leadership of these two gentlemen is part of the solution. They deserve significant credit for the leadership to move out of this. 
   I would state that we are all God's children, and because of that we need to pull together and recognize there is  much more that identifies us together than separates us apart. And when we get to this point where we are pulling together as one Nation, one people, and one cause and erase the divides that are easy to identify, we get to the point where we can joke with one another and laugh with one another and work with one another and love and fight with one another in a fashion that enhances this country and glorifies our Creator, then that is where this Nation needs to go. This is a big step in the right direction. It's timely. I urge the adoption of this resolution, and I appreciate all the gentlemen and gentlewomen from Virginia that are cosponsors of this resolution. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ADDRESSING WAIVER OF ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, last year the U.S. Judicial Conference submitted a proposed addition to the Rules of Evidence governing waivers of the attorney-client privilege or work product immunity. Rules governing evidentiary privilege must be approved by an act of Congress. 
   The Judicial Conference concluded that the current law on waivers of privilege and work product is largely responsible for the rising costs of discovery, especially discovery of electronic information. The reason is that if a protected document is produced, there is a risk that a court will find a subject matter waiver that will apply not only to the instant case and document, but to other cases and documents as well. The fear of waiver also leads to extravagant claims of privilege. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Judicial Conference devoted great process to drafting their proposal. For more than a year, the conference's Advisory Committee on Evidentiary Rules conducted hearings that featured testimony that was submitted by eminent judges, lawyers and academics. The advisory committee later coordinated with the Conference of Chief Justices to assure that the evolving draft addressed federalism concerns raised by the individual State court systems. 
   In April of 2006, the advisory committee held a conference at Fordham Law School at which a selected group of academics and practitioners reviewed the draft. More revisions were developed that resulted in a revised rule that was published for public comment in August of 2006. The advisory committee received more than 70 public comments and heard testimony from 20 witnesses at two hearings. 
   In April of 2007, further changes were made based on this process, and the new rule 502 was released. This draft was approved by the Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure and the full Judicial Conference. The text of S. 2450 incorporates the submission developed and approved by the Judicial Conference. The Senate passed the measure on February 27, 2008, by unanimous consent. 
   The content of the new rule includes the following provisions: If a waiver is found, it applies only to the information disclosed, unless a broader waiver is made necessary by the holder's intentional and misleading use of privileged or protected communications or information. An inadvertent disclosure does not operate as a waiver if the holder took reasonable steps to prevent such a disclosure and employed reasonably prompt measures to retrieve the mistakenly disclosed communications or information. 
   If there is a privileged or protected disclosure at the Federal level, then State courts must honor the new rule in subsequent State proceedings. If there is a disclosure in a State proceeding, then admissibility in a subsequent Federal proceeding is determined by the law that is most protective against a waiver. A Federal Court order that a disclosure does not constitute a waiver is enforceable in any Federal or State proceeding. 
   Finally, Mr. Speaker, parties in a Federal proceeding can enter into a confidentiality agreement providing for mutual protection against waiver in that proceeding. 
   Mr. Speaker, the cost of discovery has spiked in recent years based on the proliferation of e-mail and other forms of electronic recordkeeping. Litigants must constantly sift through a mountain of documents to ensure that privileged material is not inadvertently released. While most documents produced during discovery have little value, attorneys must still conduct exhaustive reviews to prevent disclosures. The cost to litigants is staggering and the time consumed by courts to supervise these activities is excessive. 
   The system is broken and must be fixed. S. 2450 does just that by providing a predictable standard to govern waivers of privileged information. The legislation improves the efficiency and the discovery process, while it still promotes accountability. It alters neither Federal nor State law on whether the attorney-client privilege or the work product doctrine protects specific information. The bill only modifies the consequences of an inadvertent disclosure once a privilege exists. 
   The process devoted to the development of new Federal Rule of Evidence 502 by the Judicial Conference was extensive. The Senate has reviewed the measure and approved it by unanimous consent with an accompanying committee report. The House Judiciary Committee spent months informally reviewing S. 2450, a process that included intense discussions with representatives of the judiciary and a Fordham Law School professor who assisted in the drafting of the rule. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, it is time to act. I urge my colleagues to support S. 2450. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CHILD SOLDIERS ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S. 2135, the Child Soldier Accountability Act of 2008, which prohibits the use of children under the age of 15 in military forces or armed conflicts. 
   Children are currently used as soldiers in over 20 countries. An estimated 200,000 to 300,000 children are used as soldiers for rebel groups, militias and government armed forces. The individuals who recruit children do so because children are physically vulnerable and easily intimidated. Many children are recruited by force and often compelled to follow orders under threat of death. Child soldiers are a global phenomenon. The problem is most critical in Africa and Asia, but armed groups in the Americas, Eurasia and the Middle East also use child soldiers. 
   The United States is a party to the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflict. President Clinton signed the Optional Protocol in 2000 and it was ratified by the Senate in 2002. 
   The Optional Protocol requires states to raise the age of voluntary recruitment from 15 and to impose a binding declaration of the minimum age for recruitment into their armed forces. The protocol also requires states to take all feasible measures to ensure that members of the armed forces under the age of 18 do not participate in hostilities and prohibits the conscription of anyone under the age of 18 into the armed forces. 
   The protocol prohibits the recruitment or use in hostilities of children under the age of 18 by rebel or other nongovernmental and armed groups and requires states to criminalize such practices. 
   In addition to joining the Optional Protocol, the United States funds programs to, one, rehabilitate children who were abducted in Southern Sudan and Northern Uganda; two, demobilize 4,000 children soldiers in Afghanistan and enroll them in education and counseling programs; and three, reintegrate former child combatants in Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Liberia.     
   The bill before us today complements the ongoing efforts of the United States to combat the use of child soldiers. S. 2135 is the product of several months of good-faith negotiations among Democrats and Republicans in the House and Senate and the administration. 
   The amended version of S. 2135 that the House will vote on today includes several technical changes to clarify the intent and scope of the bill. Most notably, the bill ensures that U.S. military recruiting practices are not impeded by this legislation. The bill also authorizes the government to deport or deny admission to any individual who recruits or uses child soldiers under the age of 15. I urge my colleagues to support this bill. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CHILD SOLDIERS ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, as I listen to the debate here and contemplate the global situation of 200,000, 300,000 child soldiers and  what that means, and the repatriation, so to speak, of the child soldiers in Afghanistan, having just returned from Iraq, Afghanistan, and Georgia, and having walked in some of the dust-covered mountains and in the dust-covered plains over there and been brought up to speed in briefings in both of those countries, it occurs to me how tough it is over in that part of the world, how close they are to the Stone Age, and how difficult it is to live in that country, let alone stand and fight, and the generations of warfare that have built one on top of the other. There is not a generation there that can remember not having fought. 
   Life expectancy in Afghanistan, 44 years. Up until a couple years ago, Afghanistan, by my recollection, was the only country in the world where men could expect to live longer than women, even though men were the ones that were most often killed in the conflict. The health care is that bad. 
   When young people are brought up in warfare and they are conscripted into the military and they are confronted with armed conflict at an early age, they may not know any other way of life. And to bring them back into education and try to repatriate them into more of, as we would see it, a normal lifestyle is a very difficult task. But Mr. Speaker, we must. We must break that cycle of violence. We must break that cycle of violence and the culture that reconstitutes at each generation. That is the case in Afghanistan, it is the case in Iraq, it is the case in the West Bank and in the Gaza strip and Israel proper. And it goes on and on and on around this world. 
   When little children, when little girls are raised to wear a pseudo suicide belt as part of perpetuating a culture of violence, when they are taught to hate people because of their religion or their ethnicity and they see that practiced on the news every day, when I turn on al-Jazeera TV and I see the venom and the hatred that is there, when I watch the leaders of the people that oppose us bring it back home to be inspiring in recruiting people who believe that their path to salvation is killing people who are not like them, then I understand how important it is to break this cycle. I don't know if we are going to be able to do that. I think this bill will move us a little bit closer along that way. At least it stands on the right principle for the right cause, and I urge its adoption. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ASSISTANCE AND SELF-DETERMINATION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of this amendment brought by the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Westmoreland). 
   Perhaps I will work backwards through this from what I have heard during this debate. One of them would be the decision that was made in Rice v. Cayetano in the year 2000 that Native Hawaiians are an ethnic group and that it is unconstitutional and in violation of the Civil Rights Act to provide special protected status and privileges to people based upon their ethnicity. To raise that issue as an argument here on the floor isn't railing against judicial activism. To bring an amendment here to the floor of the United States Congress and ask the people's House to provide a majority vote on whether or not to authorize funds to go to Native Hawaiians, it isn't a conflict with judicial activism; to the contrary, it calls upon the people through their elected representative to make that decision. I think it is very consistent with our Constitution. It isn't railing against judicial activism; it simply recognizes the case and recognizes the Constitution. 
   With regard to Chief Justice Roberts making the argument in favor of the Hawaiian side of this argument, if my recollection is correct, and I believe it is, that was then private sector attorney John Roberts who made that decision who was under the employment of people who had hired him to make the best argument he could make. But I don't remember him saying he had won the argument. So we know that when attorneys are in private practice, they take on clients and they do the best job they can of making that argument. The attorneys that argued in Rice v. Cayetano, the prevailing side was the side of the Constitution and the side of the people. 
   I have represented two reservations now for 11 years in either the Iowa Senate or the United States Congress. I have had good relations with the people there on the reservations in my district, and it echoes across the Missouri River into Nebraska. I am not without some sense of experience and sensitivity when it comes to these issues that have to do with tribes, reservations and ethnicity. 
   But I am concerned about a consistent and constant effort to balkanize America, to encourage Americans to divide themselves into groups and identify themselves based upon their ethnicity and the national origin of their ancestors. 
   I listen and I hear there are 2,100 Native Hawaiians living in Georgia. Why can't we just call them Georgians? Why can't we call them Americans? Why can't we, as the voice of the people, encourage each other to remember our history and remember the legacy and remember the cultures that come, but focus on being Americans and erase the lines between us rather than drawing continually brighter and brighter lines, further balkanizing America, encouraging people to gather together as ethnicities in enclaves. 
   And I am going to be one who will be, if the day comes that this Hawaiian legislation, the big bill comes to this floor, I will be opposing it as well, Mr. Chairman, because that divides Americans and it sets a new standard that has not been set and that is recognizing ethnicities as tribes. If that happens, any ethnicity that can gain the political leverage to gain a majority vote here on the floor of Congress, here in the House and in the Senate, can then be raised to the same level that we have set aside for Native Americans that we are dealing with here in this bill. 
   So this slipped in. This authorization slipped in in the year 2000 without a lot of opposition. I agree with the gentlelady's position there. It should have been opposed. I think it was a mistake by Congress, and it brought about a $9 million appropriation in 2007. It is probably a $25 million appropriation obligation through about the year 2012. 
   This is where we draw the line. This is where we have to take the stand on what is really the Constitution and what is right. Ethnicities can't be granted special status. 
   I yield to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Westmoreland). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ASSISTANCE AND SELF-DETERMINATION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, this amendment is one that everybody in this body has seen before. It is an amendment that I brought to a number of the appropriations bills, and at least three times has been adopted by a bipartisan effort. In fact, I don't believe it has come to a recorded vote at any time. 
   What it does is it limits the use of the funds that might be authorized by this bill. It says no amounts made available pursuant to any authorization of appropriations under this act or under the amendments made by this act may be used to employ workers described in section 274A of the Immigration and Nationality Act. 
   What this amendment does is it ensures that as funds are appropriated under this authorization, that they will not be used to hire people that cannot lawfully work in the United States. That would include those who are here illegally and those who are here legally without work authorization. 
   I would point out that our Federal Government, by the statistics that have been produced by the inspector general of the Social Security Administration is likely, and I say ``likely,'' I don't think they say ``likely,'' the largest employer of nonauthorized workers in the United States. 
   We issued millions of Social Security numbers over the years going back into the 1990s to people who were not authorized to work but they needed a Social Security number for one reason or another, a list of benefits which I also don't agree with nor comprehend. We slowed that down dramatically, and I don't know that that practice continues to exist.     
   But those Social Security numbers have been used to gain employment and to gain employment with the Federal agencies. They monitored seven Federal agencies, seven State agencies and three local governments; and out of that came a number that about 44 percent of those non-work Social Security numbers had been used to gain employment. Even though those cards will say on them non-work, and even if you run the numbers through the Social Security Administration database, they all come back and say not authorized to work, we still have those people working for government at all levels and especially the Federal Government. 
   And so if we are ever to clean up our act, if we're ever to compel private employers to no longer hire those who are illegally present in the United States, the least we can do is ensure that the employees of government are lawful employees. 
   And so this amendment says that none of these funds that are authorized may be used to hire those people who are not legal to work in the United States. This would include illegal aliens. It would include non-work Social Security numbers, and to give a broader definition of this, those that are here on student visas without authorization to work, those who are here on visitors visas, those kind of lawfully present as well as unlawfully present people are not authorized to work in the United States. These funds would be prohibited from being utilized for that purpose. 
   This is a step down the path, I believe, Mr. Chairman, that we need to continue to take. We have a consensus that we need to turn up the pressure on employers. Well, government's the largest employer, and in fact, all of government in the United States has over 21 million employees. Out of 300 million people, over 21 million employees, and of those 21 million employees, a significant number are those that are not authorized to work in the United States. That means that whatever they might be doing, under this act they should be lawful employees. 
   They can use the basic pilot program which now we call e-verify and run those Social Security numbers through there. I've sat and run it myself. It's pretty easy. The longest delay I could create by giving it a confusing message was 6 seconds. It's instantaneous analysis. 
   We also need the Social Security Administration to run their database against the Department of Homeland Security's database. They would flush out most of these non-work Social Security numbers. The administration has to have conviction on this issue. This is a way to bring them towards more conviction on this issue. They've been reluctant. 
   I would urge adoption of this amendment. This is something that, again, three times has passed this floor, and it's something I believe that's common sense that the American people strongly support, and I would urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ASSISTANCE AND SELF-DETERMINATION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the Price amendment. 
   One of the things I wanted to speak to was the list that was read to us earlier about Native American issues that show growing numbers of Republicans that voted ``no'' on appropriations or authorizations for Native American issues, the 50-some that went to 70-some that was presented by the gentleman from Hawaii, whose judgment and opinion and spirit and personality certainly I appreciate here. I make nothing but complimentary comments with regard to that. 
   But I would submit that voting ``no'' on a bill that increases spending or expands authorization and considering that to be somehow a vote against a Native American tribe or against an ethnicity, protecting the American taxpayers and protecting the Constitution is a vote for Americans. That's what we have to be first. That was a point I made earlier. 
   I just wanted to have that opportunity to speak to that issue, that voting ``no'' on appropriations and authorizations because they have something in their title that sounds good that has to do with our collective national history or heritage doesn't mean that it's against the descendents of the ones that earned that reputation. 
   What it does mean is that we defend the Constitution, we defend the appropriations process, the taxpayer, fiscal responsibility and PAYGO. That's what I am standing here now and endorsing, promoting and asking adoption of the Price amendment because it defends PAYGO. 
   I yield to the gentleman from Georgia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ASSISTANCE AND SELF-DETERMINATION REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Georgia. Again, Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the Price amendment and PAYGO. 
   PAYGO often, in this Congress, includes finding new ways to collect revenue from people that didn't owe it before. That was never my idea of PAYGO. My idea of PAYGO was we would limit our spending to stay within the constraints of the revenue stream that's coming in. 
   So the day is going to come when the American taxpayers rise up. They understand what's going on here. They are seeing that a lot of the effort to ignore PAYGO is resulting in increased taxes and increasing the revenue stream of the United States at the expense of our businesses. 
   We know that businesses don't pay taxes. It's the consumers that pay taxes, businesses tack the tax onto the retail prices. 
   We need to slow down this appetite for spending. We need to slow down this appetite for expanding authorizations and appropriations and the services of the Federal Government. You can go with one of two equations, and one of those equations is government can be all and do all and become the complete nanny state, or you can ask for more personal responsibility. That means less government, it also means less taxes, and the bottom line is, more freedom. 
   The Price amendment endorses PAYGO, holds us to those guidelines that we have agreed to here, and, in the end, it yields more freedom, more personal responsibility and less tax burden. 
   I urge adoption of the Price amendment. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (WATER QUALITY INVESTMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, my amendment is a simple amendment. What it does is it recognizes that this authorization was authorized by Congress in 2002. It was authorized for $1.5 billion. This authorization takes us on up well over that. What I have done with my amendment is I do a 5-percent reduction in the authorization by the individual line items, and they all are on page four, so it amounts to a 5-percent reduction and takes us down to a number just a little bit above the inflation-adjusted 2002 number. So the $1.5 billion that was 2002 after adjusted for inflation comes to $1.69 billion. My amendment takes it up to just about $1.7 billion. This overall is not in the President's budget and we don't have this in any other budget, in Republicans or Democrats here, so this is an extra authorization. 
   Federal spending in the 110th Congress is out of control. The first five bills of the 110th Congress wasted about $14 billion of taxpayer money. If American taxpayers are going to be forced to foot the bill for projects that cities and States should be paying for, then they should only have to be forced to pay a reasonable amount. And if Members cannot vote for a reasonable reduction as done by this amendment, it proves that the majority in this Congress carries with it a tax-and-spend attitude. The restraint is what is in my amendment. 
   The funding authorized under this bill is $1.8 billion. My amendment will bring spending in line to about the inflation-adjusted portion, as I mentioned earlier. We need to make sure that our adjustments do so without wasteful government spending. We should not sit back and allow the majority to force their expansive jumbo jets or their poorly masked, earmark-ridden continuing resolutions on the American taxpayers. 
   Mr. Chairman, we all have to learn to tighten our belts. We have to learn how to do more with less. We have to draw the line somewhere. And we actually should draw it everywhere where we can to squeeze this down. The checks that this Congress have already written in a closed and rigid process are simply too large. In last year's elections, the new majority party promised the American people that they would rein in Federal spending and return fiscal restraint to Washington, DC. So far, that has not been what I have seen here in this Congress. I offer this opportunity to the minority and the majority to bring us back to a level of fiscal restraint. 
   We can and must do something about the deficit. We must do it right now. We have our opportunity right here. By voting for this amendment, you are stating that American taxpayers should not have to pay higher taxes in the future because we couldn't control our spending today. I think it is clear. This is a carefully drafted and a reasonable spending restraint amendment. It is a 5-percent reduction and it takes us down to an inflation-adjusted number from the 2002 authorization. I haven't heard a lot of discussion here about the expansion in needs. I did hear some significant requests that I think are relatively legitimate.     
   But it is important for us to be responsible in our request. It is important that we tighten our belt a little bit. If we can take it up one notch here, we can take it up another notch on another authorization and another appropriation, Perhaps we can get through this process. Having met PAYGO, for example, maybe we can get through this process and actually have a budget that is closer to balance than some we have seen in the past. Maybe we can get to the point of the promises that were made that we are going to have a balanced budget this year. I am looking forward to seeing that. I am trying to be helpful in offering this amendment, and I would ask my colleagues to support this fiscal restraint, fiscally responsible, reasonable amendment that preserves the authorization of 2002, makes adjustments for inflation so real dollars will buy the same amount of projects that would have been brought subsequent to the 2002 authorization, which, of course, was not appropriated to. 
   Mr. Chairman, I urge passage of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (WATER QUALITY INVESTMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I appreciate the gentleman's remarks, and I am very much in agreement with you that this is a responsible thing for us to do. And I again thank you, and I would be very happy to accept the recommendation and your support, and I would be willing to do the same. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONGRESSIONAL IMMIGRATION CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - March 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from California for yielding. 
   I feel compelled to respond to many of the remarks that have been made here on the floor about the condition of the health care treatment for our veterans. I won't deny that there were unacceptable conditions in Building 18. I don't believe there has been any empirical data or quantifiable information that says it has gone beyond some of the rooms within Building 18. 
   But I know when I go out to Walter Reed and when I go to Bethesda and when I go to Landstuhl and I look those people in the eye that are there every day with compassion fatigue that are giving their heart and soul and everything they have for the health care interests of our brave soldiers who have been wounded defending our freedom, a lot of that freedom and a lot of that mission have been opposed by the people on this side of the aisle, there is a strong commitment in all of those  hospitals by the personnel that are there. They work long hours, and they give the best service with everything that they have. And I will agree that there is a bureaucratic problem and we ought to find a way to put some software in place and put a system there so we can track patients and they don't get dropped from the system and they can be expedited through with the most efficient and high-quality care possible. 
   But this being an issue that is being stampeded and run up the flagpole goes beyond trying to fix the problem. It is an effort to try to undermine the mission of our soldiers overseas, and I think that is deplorable, Mr. Speaker. 
   So I stand with the people that serve America, those that put their lives on the line, those that have lost life and limb. I stand with the people who stand there and help them. And we need to be supportive and encouraging and fix the problems we have and remove the politics from this debate. 
   I yield back to the gentleman from California. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONGRESSIONAL IMMIGRATION CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - March 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from California for organizing this Special Order here this evening, and I also thank the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Deal) for making his presentation and making a compelling case for why we have to end this thing we call birthright citizenship, anchor babies, or more appropriately, more accurately, as automatic citizenship. It was never part of the concept constitutionally that we should grant that kind of a thing, for all the reasons that Mr. Deal said and all the reasons that Mr. Bilbray said, and a lot of other reasons besides. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, I would submit this, that I am going to roll out some facts and figures here, and I would ask that you maybe could pay attention and take some notes on this because it is important for us in this country not to be establishing an immigration policy based upon anecdotes or based upon emotions or based upon somebody's feelings, but base it upon some empirical data. We need to base our policy on some facts. 
   I would point out that I wrote a letter to the White House last year. It was off of a request of that White House liaison that took place last April, and by June 23, I was finally frustrated with my e-mails and phone calls to the liaison who promised to get me some answers.     
   So I put it in letter form, hard copy, sent it to the White House, sent it as an e-mail also, and instructed my staff to call the White House every week to get answers to the questions. Because it occurs to me that facts don't work for the people that are for open borders, but facts absolutely support the people that stand up for the rule of law and that stand up for national sovereignty and stand up for national border protection and enforcement in our workplace to shut off the jobs magnet. 
   I think we should start with a simple basis. If you go back to the beginning of Western Civilization and the Greeks, they would ask. They would look at things. They were proud. They lived in the age of reason. They said, I think, therefore I am. We are going to do deductive reasoning. We will start with the most logical, obvious questions, and we are going to reduce it down. If we can narrow ourselves down to a conclusion, we will come to a conclusion. If we can't, we will need more data. 
   They were proud of the way they could think and reason. That's the foundation for Western Civilization. Had they not developed that age of reason, we would never have had the Age of Enlightenment. Without the Age of Enlightenment, we would never have had the United States of America. So we are founded upon reason. 
   Questions start from the beginning. Is there such a thing as too much immigration, legal or illegal? That is one of the questions I asked the President. 
   Then I asked, would you separate that into, is there such a thing as too much illegal immigration? And then, is there too much legal immigration? Then, the question that follows is, within those two categories, illegal in one category and legal immigration in the other category, if there is such a thing as too much, how much is too much? I will submit in the category of the illegal, one is too many. 
   I don't think the White House can take that position, neither can most of the Democrats and many of the Senators, Democrats and Republicans; one is too many. Is there such a thing as too much legal immigration? Yes, there has to be. Otherwise, you have to be willing to accept everybody on the planet that wants to come to America, and that might actually be everybody. 
   I would argue that this million or so that come in legally in a year is kind of an acceptable number, but is probably twice as many as the American people like to have. American people don't only want to eliminate all the illegal immigration, they want to reduce legal immigration, and they want to go back to an immigration policy that is designed to enhance the economic, the social and the cultural well-being of the United States of America. 
   Call it a selfish policy, if you like, but any Nation that subordinates their immigration policy to the people who will illegally cross the border from other countries doesn't have much of a policy and doesn't have much of a destiny if they don't have control of their own destiny. We have got to be in control. We have got to set that policy. 
   So I went on down this list of things, and if there is such a thing as too much legal or illegal immigration, then how much is too much? And how many do you believe would be legalized by the Senate version of the bill that passed last year? 
   Of course, before, I believe it was the Bingaman amendment, it was between 100 and 200 million would be legalized with a path to citizenship into the United States. Under the Senate version of the bill that probably would have had enough votes to pass with the majority of the Senate. Well, there were some caps that were put on because of that amendment that I just referenced, and then the number came down to, and this is the number I would ask of the White House, how many do you believe would be legalized by the Senate-passed version of the bill? 
   I can tell you at this point that, according to the Heritage Foundation, according to Robert Rector and according to some real good solid statistical analysis done by Senator JEFF SESSIONS of Alabama, it comes to about 61.1 million people. The lowest number we could come up with about 53 or 54 million people; 66.1 million is the most reliable number over the next 20 years that would be legalized. By the Senate version, it has got to be nothing but amnesty. 
   I looked back, and how do you quantify that? In 1986, President Ronald Reagan signed an amnesty bill. He called it an amnesty bill. He was straight up honest about it. It was one of the two or three times he failed me, but at least he was straight up honest. Some will say that was to legalize 300,000, some will say it was 1 million, but not many will say that it actually brought in 3 million, some 3.1 million people who became citizens through this amnesty that was passed in 1986. 
   I have met some of those people. I have looked them in the eye, and I can tell you, they do not respect the rule of law like the rest of the Americans do. Therefore, they want amnesty for the rest of the illegals that are in this country, because they see it was good for them. Well, if something is good for someone, that is not a measure that it is a good policy for America. It is only a measure that it is good for someone. 
   But regardless, that was a series of questions that I asked of the President. In addition to that, I asked, would you be willing to agree to a hard annual cap that would control the aggregate of all of the different immigration policies that are out there and say that, from an annual basis, it never exceeds a certain number? 
   Now, I would start with 1 million and ratchet it down for the American people if I could. We could probably assimilate 1 million people in this country a year if we had good assimilation policies. That letter, with those questions, and those five questions as I recall that went to the President on June 23, and the White House got a call every single week until September. 
   Finally, I got an answer back, not from the White House, not from Secretary Chertoff, but a subordinate of Secretary Chertoff. The answer that came back was a cut and paste to somebody's constituent response letter and didn't answer a single question that I had asked. 
   So I wrote a letter back that said, Dear Mr. President, thanks for the letter that was in response to my letter full of questions, but you really didn't answer any of my questions. Would you like to try again? I would really appreciate it. I am the ranking member of the Immigration Subcommittee, and we have to set an immigration policy here. 
   Finally, I got a letter back, and it said, immigration is too complicated and too serious a policy to reduce it to numbers. 
   What a shocking thing. That is a single piece of all of this. So when you add to this, you can add that we have a  major problem on our borders. We are seeing $60 billion out of our U.S. economy that are wired into the Western Hemispheric countries other than the United States. Those are transmittals from the wages in America; $30 billion goes to Mexico; $65 billion worth of illegal drugs come across that southern border into the United States. We are watching 11,000 people a night pour across the southern border. 
   In fact, just yesterday was the anniversary of the battle of the Alamo when Colonel Travis and those brave Texan Americans were slaughtered at the Alamo. Santa Ana's Army was only half the size of a nightly number of illegals that come across our southern border. 
   Those are simply some of the pieces. There are many other statistics out there that are empirical data, and I pray that this Nation will look at numbers, look at reality and not be stampeded by hyperbole or anecdotes and establish a policy that is good for the economic, the social and the cultural well-being of the United States of America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of IOWA. (CONGRESSIONAL IMMIGRATION CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - March 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of IOWA. I thank the gentleman from California for adding to this subject matter in that way. 
   A piece that I left out was that the 66.1 million that would have been legalized by the Senate version of amnesty last year happens to be, and I believe coincidentally, the sum total of all Americans who have immigrated into the United States and become naturalized, most through Ellis Island, but done so legally. We are talking about doing that in one fell swoop. 
   So, in 1986 it was a 300,000, maybe a million number. That was a great big piece to try to swallow and get our brains around. In 1995, before the 1996 election, there was an accelerated effort, especially in California, to naturalize a million people so that they could go to the polls and vote in that Clinton/Gore election. And we all know where the incentive was, on which side of the aisle that was. That was perhaps 1 million in 1986. At most, it was 1 million in 1995 before the 1996 elections. That was an appalling number to think about a million people getting fast-tracked to citizenship or amnesty. And this is a time now we are seriously talking about 66 million people. Sixty-six times an amount that was too many in 1995, it was too many in 1986, it is absolutely too many today. 
   There is another component of this, too, and that is that we know on the left, and I am going to say on the part of Democrats, they recognize that they are going to pick up about two out of every three immigrants that would have amnesty. They have a strong political motive that subordinates the United States, our Constitution, their oath of office, by the way. That is the incentive. It is a political incentive on the left hand side of the aisle. On the right hand side of the aisle we have elitists. They aren't all on the right hand side of the aisle; we have plenty of left-wing rich folks, too, that are capitalizing on cheap labor. They believe that they have some kind of birthright to always be hiring cheap labor and continue getting richer off the backs of the people they are hiring. 
   Think of this kind of like a barbell. On the one side, the weights over here on the barbell are the liberals that get all the political power that comes from illegal immigration. On the other side there are probably about 2-1 Republican conservatives that get empowered by getting rich off of cheap labor. In the middle is the handle of the barbell, that is the middle class, the middle class that used to be an ever-broadening, an ever more prosperous middle class that now is losing its purchasing power and being narrowed by the greed of the people that are politically greedy on the one side, and economically greedy on the other side. 
   I asked this question to the business community in America, because I know I will not convince the people on the other side of the aisle, where will you apply your trade once we have destroyed this America that is based upon the rule of law? 
   I will yield back to the gentleman from California. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IOWA PRESIDENTIAL CAUCUS -- (House of Representatives - December 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I very much appreciate the privilege to be recognized and address you here on the floor of the United States House of Representatives. Each time I come to the floor to address you and speak into the Record, I am very well aware that there are people in my district, Iowans and Americans, who are tuned in for one reason or another, who are shaping their ideas and their values as they listen to us here in the people's House, this great deliberative and this great debate body which has 435 Members, representing 300 million of us, each of  us representing roughly 660,000 constituents. We are called upon by the Constitution and the rights that are passed from God through the Declaration and the Constitution, we are called upon to step up to those responsibilities. We are elected to represent the people in our districts with the priorities of what is good for America. First God, then country, then State, and then district. 
   I know, Mr. Speaker, there are Members of this body who view their job as simply reflecting the political will of their constituents. In other words, take a poll, wet the finger, see which way the wind is blowing, put down a vote, and determine that your longevity here in this Congress somehow puts together this vast mosaic which turns out to be a beautiful painting. I, Mr. Speaker, do not believe that. 
   I believe we are charged with the responsibility of leadership. We are elected for our judgment. We owe our best effort and best judgment to our constituents, and part of that best effort and best judgment is to listen to them and receive their input, but exchange the information that we gather here and across the country. 
   We are full-time paying attention to the issues that affect this Nation. We have access to more information than most of our constituents do. We have a responsibility to process that information, give our opinion back to our constituents, exchange our ideas and reach a conclusion on how best to conduct ourselves on our public statements which affect public policy, on our votes and on our activities, on the bills that we sponsor and cosponsor and author, and the positions that we take in committee and here on the floor. All of that comes with a great profound responsibility of serving people here in the United States Congress. 
   I came here this evening to address one of those profound responsibilities, and maybe a little bit outside of the realm of an official duty of a Member of Congress, but certainly implied within our duty and responsibility, and that is that all of us in this Chamber are involved in a constant conversation with each other, with our constituents, with our associates, with the press, on how we select the next leader in the free world because, Mr. Speaker, the nomination process here in America will determine generally two nominees, one Democrat and one Republican, and perhaps an Independent, that will be on the ballot in November. One of them will be the next leader of the free world. One of them will be the Commander in Chief of the Armed Services of the only unchallenged superpower on the globe, and with that comes a series of profound responsibilities. 
   So how then do we in these positions of leadership, how do we take this job, and I am going to say seriously, to make this evaluation? How do we come to the conclusion on whom we support and might consider endorsing for President of the United States? 
   I, Mr. Speaker, have the great privilege to represent a district in Iowa, one of five Congressional districts, where we are the first in the Nation contest. Iowans will, in the caucus on January 3, make the first recommendation to the rest of the Nation and the individuals that Iowans believe would make the next President of the United States, both Democrats and Republicans. 
   We have had that responsibility of the first in the Nation caucus for several decades now. I believe it was Jimmy Carter that first identified the leverage and the opportunity to come to Iowa in the first in the nation caucus and engage in that process and emerge victorious and go on to New Hampshire and South Carolina and beyond and be successful in the process of nomination and be successful in the process of being elected as President. 
   Jimmy Carter identified that opportunity in Iowa, and since that time we have had Presidential candidates constantly in Iowa over the last year and a half in particular. But this process is an open process whereby it is the first time in my memory that both the Democrats and the Republicans neither has an incumbent President that will be up for renomination for a second term or a Vice President who might have been picked or anointed by a sitting President. It is wide open. It is wide open for Democrats and Republicans. We have known that for 3 years, perhaps, maybe a little more than 3 years. 
   So we have seen candidates come through Iowa, and I am sure the people in New Hampshire have as well, and the South Carolinians as well, and this has been going on for a year and a half. Now it is coming down to the crunch time. Iowans will be making their decision on whom they will support in the caucus within the next 30 days, 29 days, perhaps. 
   There are a lot of Iowans who have not yet made up their mind. I am here to say I understand why. The January 3 contest will bring 100,000 Republicans out who will go to homes across the State. Some will be sitting in living rooms and gymnasiums where they pull the caucus together for an entire county. Some will go to schools or other public buildings, but many will go to the homes. They will go to the homes of Iowans and sit in the living room. Sometimes they will not all fit in one room and they will flow into other rooms, but they will go through the process, Republicans and Democrats, declaring themselves. Democrats openly declare themselves for Presidential candidate. Republicans put up a vote on a piece of paper, and they can maybe vote for a Presidential candidate in a caucus and not be identified as a supporter for a particular candidate. Generally, we listen to each other speak with such focus we know how people vote whether it is a secret vote or whether it is the way it is in a small neighborhood contest. 
   But before I get into that, I want to get into how important it is that we have a process of nomination that includes a contest like an Iowa caucus, an opportunity for individuals, to caucus-goers, registered voters, and they will all be registered voters who have a voice in our caucuses, regular people, heartland people, regular Americans from all walks of life, it is so important we have a process that allows the supporters of the candidates to get to know the Presidential candidates. 
   We are in this modern cyber era where information goes with the click of a mouse and you can transfer capital around the world in a nanosecond. In that period of time, we can also transmit visual images and radio commercials and print text in the blogosphere. Anyone who has an e-mail distribution list can listen to a Presidential candidate in a living room in Davenport, Iowa, write that little quote down and pump it into their BlackBerry and send it off to 10,000 people on their e-mail distribution list. We have those kinds of folks who do that. 
   These Presidential candidates are being evaluated day by day, hour by hour, minute by minute, by people who take their privilege to weigh in on this nomination process very seriously. 
   We have developed over the generations astute people who are engaged in politics. But I don't want to say that Iowans are the only ones that have that ability because we don't. Obviously that ability exists in every State in significant numbers. But I do want to say that if no State has a first in the Nation caucus process, if every State, for example, if we went to Super Tuesday on the 5th of February, if everybody held the primary contest at the same time, the polls opened at 7 in the morning and closed at 9 at night, we would all go in as a Nation, 300 million of us, those who voted in the primary, and we cast a ballot for our selection for nominee, if we did that, we would nominate the Democrat candidate and the Republican candidate who had the deepest pockets, most ability to raise money and the most ability to buy ads and put their chosen persona out before the American people to convince them that on Super Tuesday, February 5, they should go to the polls and vote for them. Not a personal contest, but a media image, money raising contest is what we would have. We will have that media image, money raising contest on Super Tuesday on February 5 and those dates beyond that other States have their primaries, and some have a caucus or convention. 
   But this first in the Nation caucus is different. You simply cannot earn votes by running media. You simply can't run television ads and radio ads and print and mailer and do robocalls and be able to get people to be inspired to get up on a cold January night and go on out into their neighborhood's living room or the school gymnasium and declare for a candidate for President. It takes more than that.  
   If people are going to invest hours of their time, because it isn't just write the name of a Presidential candidate on a piece of paper and turn it in. It also includes the initial offering of the planks for the State party platform and the election of precinct captains and the election of the delegates that go to the county conventions. These nights are full of political debate and exchange of ideas. 
   There are people who will go to the caucuses who have not made up their mind who they will support for President, but they will listen to the speeches, whether Republicans or Democrats. 
   So what is this caucus process and why is it unique? It is unique because it requires organization. It requires the candidate to build an organization within the State, to identify workers within the counties and people that will go forth and profess the validity of their candidate as the best President that we could ask for in this era as President of the United States. 
   This statewide conversation that goes on continually is a conversation one on one, person to person. It goes on in the coffee shop and it goes on in schools and churches and over talk radio constantly. It goes on over the telephone lines from neighbor to neighbor and business conversation to business conversation. People seeking to influence others to support their candidate and others that are ambivalent, and some that will lay out the principles that they require a candidate to stand for, but may not be behind the personality of the individuals. 
   And there are components of this statewide conversation that have to do with anecdotes about each of the Presidential candidates, how they conducted themselves in private. Maybe they went to a barbecue someplace in Iowa County and when nobody was looking, they got up and cleaned off the table and helped out. Or maybe they got mad at a staff aide and cut loose and yelled at them behind the curtain and the stage when they thought nobody was listening. And maybe they walked off with some young kids when intense conversations were going on about policy and sat down over by the lake and had a conversation about God and country with young impressionable children that won't be voting for that candidate. They might be leaders of this country at a future time. They might have invested in young people instead of likely caucus-goers. 
   All of these little anecdotes get added up and transferred along and retold, and they become part of the personality, part of the evaluation of each of the Presidential candidates. 
   This is a statewide conversation through e-mail, by telephone, in print media, word of mouth, things that are said and unsaid. Most good, some negative. But in the end, Iowans will come to a measure of a consensus and they will support different candidates, obviously. But they will make a recommendation. Some candidates will be weeded out and some candidates will be advanced. But there will be two tickets punched in New Hampshire, no more than three, maybe only one.     
   But to win the Iowa caucus says you have met the standards. You have held up under the bright light of public scrutiny and you have done that for more than a year, and you have not been found wanting in your character or your policy. Your faith will be measured. Your work ethic will be measured. The tempo of your work, the people who are gathered around as paid staff and volunteers, all of them become part of a team, and the personalities of each of those players makes a difference in the evaluations process. If we do not have such a process, then again it becomes just a media campaign, just a media contest. 
   I would take you back, Mr. Speaker, to reflect upon the 2004 caucus when, at this stage before the caucus, a month before the caucus, the national news media had Howard Dean as the nominee for President for the Democrat Party, because Howard Dean had built an organization, he had raised a ton of money, he had an Internet presence there that was unique and hadn't been matched at the time. The polls were showing that Howard Dean was way ahead and that his next closest competitor was not likely to be able to overcome him or overtake him. And yet 3 weeks before the caucus, at least 2 weeks, in that period of time, 2 to 3 weeks before the caucus, we knew that Howard Dean was not going to win the Iowa caucus. He might have won the nomination elsewhere, but we knew he wasn't going to win the Iowa caucus. We could tell on the streets of Iowa. People were starting to walk away from and back away from Howard Dean. 
   Mr. Speaker, I don't come here to speak ill of the individual. He set a new standard and certainly made a name for himself in the State and across America. And many, many Iowans had the opportunity to meet Howard Dean. But I think that the conclusion that they drew and the reason that they didn't show up in the Democrat caucus where you have to stand up and say, I'm for Howard Dean, all of us that are for him, come gather around here, we'll count our bodies and that will be the number of people that showed up to support him. If there is an insufficient number, then we won't be able to report support for Howard from this caucus. That's the system and the rules that they have. And, truthfully, they did not show up to support Howard Dean. That was not because of the scream. The scream was a result of folks not showing up to support him, Mr. Speaker. I believe that Iowans came to the conclusion that Howard Dean, of all the things he had to offer, did not have the temperament to be President of the United States. I think that was the bottom line conclusion. And as Iowans walked away from Howard Dean, John Kerry then won Iowa and went on to win the nomination. His prospects were pretty dim at this point and 4 years ago, but we know how history launched John Kerry forward and how Howard Dean went forward to let out the scream that was the scream of frustration that, of all the good things he had done as he was on the inside track and he was turning on towards victory and it collapsed, because in the end we're making a measurement on real people, evaluating their work ethic, their faith, their character, their personalities, how they interact with people. That's something that only happens there and only happens in Iowa. It happens, I think, in New Hampshire also to some degree, but it is a different process. It is a primary process, not a caucus process. So it changes the dynamic in New Hampshire. And then beyond it becomes more and more of a media and less and less of an organizational effort. 
   But to have this unique process, this first-in-the-Nation caucus process so that Presidential candidates are meeting people face-to-face, eye-to-eye. Some might call it a relic of the old days, but I will tell you that I believe, Mr. Speaker, that it is the foundation of one of the great things about America that those of us who have the privilege to represent the people, whether it is in the White House or in the Congress or in the statehouse or through our courthouses or city hall, we face the people, we answer their questions, we let them evaluate the things we believe in and we let them evaluate our work ethic and our value system, and then they make the decision. It is up to the people. 
   So I am a great fan of this caucus process. I will do all I can to protect and preserve it, because I do not want to see an America that is simply a paid media nomination and a paid media campaign that insulates Presidential candidates from the people and perhaps launches somebody off to be President who might not meet that test if they had to look you or me in the eye. That is what the caucus does. 
   On the Republican side of this in the Iowa caucus, Mr. Speaker, we are evaluating a lot of different components, and we have watched the polls sort some of this through. We have some very good people there that stand solid on the issues. Some people with whom I stand alongside on the floor of the House of Representatives, if I put down a wish list of the Presidential candidates, where they stand on each of the issues and a little box to check, we have some people from this House running for President to check all my boxes. They check every piece that I would want to have in a Presidential candidate. And partly due to the media and partly due to the selection process, some of them don't have a lot of traction right now, and it's too bad. They deserve more of our respect. And some of them have stepped forward with a solid agenda on the issues.  
   I want to at this point, Mr. Speaker, compliment my friend TOM TANCREDO for making immigration the issue of the day. When I first met him, I already knew him, I thought, because of the hours that he had spent on this floor speaking into this microphone, Mr. Speaker, about the importance of border control, about the importance of preserving our national sovereignty by controlling our borders and who comes in the United States and who does not, protecting the security of the American people from the terrorists from without. TOM TANCREDO has done that job to the extent where, in the debate the other night, they spent 30 minutes or more, all of the Presidential candidates, debating on who would be the toughest on immigration and who would be the most like TOM TANCREDO. I call that a victory for TOM TANCREDO. 
   I think he has implanted the issue that burns the most passionately within him, the immigration reform, border control, workplace enforcement, ending anchor babies, the automatic citizenship that comes with babies of illegal immigrants who are born here on American soil. All of those components that he has worked so hard for all of these years, many of which I stood on this very floor and debated with him and supported with him, and he has come forward to support me on the agenda that I brought forward. I want to compliment TOM TANCREDO, because they all were there, standing there seeking to out-TOM TANCREDO, TOM TANCREDO. And to some extent that is what happens in a Presidential campaign when the issue that is the most important to you is adopted by the rest of the candidates. 
   Now, it doesn't mean they didn't have some opinions on it. It doesn't mean that immigration wasn't important to them. But what I have seen happen is that they understood that TOM TANCREDO was right, and they wanted to make sure that they had a plank in their platform that reflected the view that he brings to the immigration issue, and generally it is a no amnesty pledge. 
   I believe all the Presidential candidates have taken the pledge to be opposed to amnesty. Mr. Speaker, amnesty is and it needs to be defined, and I have done so here many times, to grant amnesty is to pardon immigration lawbreakers and reward them with the objective of their crimes. 
   The reason that definition is that way is because those who come into the United States across the border illegally are criminals. They are guilty of the criminal misdemeanor of illegal entry into the United States. And those who overstay their visas are unlawfully present here in the United States, and they are generally guilty of a civil misdemeanor of overstaying their visa. But most of them, and I will say those who are unlawfully present and many of those who are lawfully present and it is not lawful for them to work here, still falsify documents, still present themselves to be somebody they are not in order to get a job, in order to do some type of business here to gain the benefits of this society. Most of those who cross the border are criminals because they violated a criminal misdemeanor, and most of those who overstayed their visas have also violated or committed some crime, generally document fraud, identity fraud in order to achieve access to our benefits or jobs here in the United States. 
   So this is a group of people who stood up and said they do not deserve amnesty. We do not want to reward immigration lawbreakers. So whether they jumped the border illegally or overstayed their visa, they are lawbreakers. And they should not be rewarded, because if we do, we will get more of them, not less. And to grant a pardon to immigration lawbreakers and reward them with the objective of their crime. What was their objective? Well, to be in the United States for one thing, obviously, because that is the definition of what they have done is found themselves unlawfully present in the United States. So if that is their objective to be in the United States, if we grant them an amnesty that lets them stay in the United States, that's amnesty. We have rewarded them with the objective of their crimes. Or, if they are here and they are working here unlawfully and we jigger the books so that we give them an opportunity to continue working here but we legalize it, we have granted them amnesty because we pardoned them for their crime and we give them their objective, which is a job. Or, if they just want to live here and utilize the social benefits of this great welfare state that we have, that also could be the objective of their crime. Or, if we let them stay here in the United States and they actually are part of that smaller percentage who do have ill will towards Americans or who are criminals or those who do smuggle drugs, those who are part of the criminal element, if they would be allowed to stay here as well, we don't know who the criminals are and who aren't. And the idea that if we would just legalize them, they would all come forward, good guys and bad, and they all sign up and we give them a United States identification document, and then we would know where they are and what they are doing is just a false premise, Mr. Speaker. 
   The standard is Presidential candidates on the Republican side need to oppose amnesty. Presidential candidates on the Democrat side, I think we know, they have been fairly consistently for amnesty if I read their statements correctly, and I believe I do. If I am incorrect on that, I would hope that one or all of the Democrats would step forward and sign off on the ``no amnesty'' pledge. I am happy to put the amnesty definition in print. And, if you are listening, to grant amnesty is to pardon immigration lawbreakers and reward them with the objective of their crimes. 
   Well, Presidential candidates on the Republican side have all sworn off on amnesty. We just don't agree quite on what amnesty is all the way down the line. And that brings me some concern. 
   But that is one of the foundational issues that has been debated here, and I wanted to in the Record thank TOM TANCREDO for making sure that it is part of this dialogue in the presidential race on the Republican and on the Democrat side of the aisle. And, TOM, you have won this debate. Now we have to figure out how to implement the policy, but you have won this debate. 
   So that is the definition of amnesty. That is what has taken place here and across Iowa and New Hampshire and down into South Carolina and beyond. 
   I want to point out also that this Presidential contest does start in Iowa January 3, the first-in-the-Nation caucus then. Immediately, within a couple of days, on the 5th of January, it goes to a convention in Wyoming. And I am glad for them being involved early in the process. It's not very much focused on what happens in Wyoming, but shortly after that the following Tuesday, January 8, just 5 days after the Iowa caucus, is the New Hampshire primary. And we all know that is the first-in-the-Nation primary, and it is significant not so much in the numbers of delegates that will be achieved there but in the message that it sends to the rest of the country. From the 8th of January until 7 days later on the 15th of January, that is when the primary is in Michigan, and then on the 19th we have the primary in South Carolina which will take us to the fifth process. And in Nevada on the same day there is a caucus. 
   And so the early five contests that we have, Iowa on the 3rd of January, Wyoming on the 5th, New Hampshire on the 8th, Michigan on the 15th, and Nevada and South Carolina on the 19th of January, those early races, six States actually, but the major contests will be Iowa, New Hampshire, Michigan, South Carolina. Those will set the stage for the Florida, Alabama, Alaska primary on the 29th. 
   As this moves forward, the momentum that comes from a victory in Iowa transcends, at least launches a candidate on the road to New Hampshire, asks the people in New Hampshire: Take another look. If you were looking at this a different way, take another look and see. There was a reason Iowans made the decision that they did. Do you agree with them or do you not agree with them? And I don't want to stir up any contrarian attitude on the part of the New Hampshirites. I have great relationships with the people and I would love to be up there with your primary. I really would. But this process; it is a process of momentum, it is a process of selection. And as Iowans measure the character of the Presidential candidates and as they go to the caucus on the night of the 3rd of  January, that message will be heard around the country and around the world. And those who have not then made a decision on who they support will be taking another look. Some who have made a decision might be reassessing. 
   So I would ask this. Let's evaluate their character, their work ethic, their personalities, how they handle themselves in a time of stress or a time of relaxation. Let's do that. But I like to look at this as a matter of principle, and I would ask that these Presidential candidates be those who carry with them the convictions on a series of issues that I think are important to the future of America. And this, Mr. Speaker, is the point for which I come to this floor. 
   The issues that I believe this Nation's future pivots on, the most important issues, among them are life, marriage, the war on terror, illegal immigration, tax reform, second amendment, health care, and national sovereignty. 
   Of that list of issues that I have laid out here, Mr. Speaker, I will start with life, and that is innocent unborn human life. In particular, life from its natural beginnings, which is from fertilization/conception until natural death. The human life is sacred in all of its forms. It begins and ends as I have described. Do the Presidential candidates understand that and believe that? Or, I would ask them if they did not, then to them I would say, when did your life begin?     
   Mine began at conception. When did your life begin? 
   Madam Speaker, I believe that every American that's going to have an opinion on policy needs to ask themselves that very question. When did your life begin? Mine, I believe, began at that moment of conception. I believe that's when I was blessed with a soul, and I have a destiny like all of us, and we're all created in God's image and we have a duty. And from whom much is given, much is required. And so the issue of life is an essential component, and I will say the most important issue in this race or any race because that tells us the quality and the character and the integrity and the faith, the core faith of the Presidential candidates, how they view this subject. 
   The second issue is marriage. And Madam Speaker, marriage is an institution that I believe is a sacrament. It's a blessing that's given to us from God. Adam and Eve were joined together before original sin. Marriage is as old as man and woman itself. It's a blessing too that came from God, and marriage has survived original sin and marriage has survived the great flood, and marriage has been with us for thousands of years, and it's been defined as the same thing throughout, a man and a woman joined together in holy matrimony. That's marriage, according to our faith. It's marriage according to our civil law in this country. It's marriage according to the Defense of Marriage Act at the Federal level. It's marriage according to the Defense of Marriage acts in all States except Massachusetts, if I have that chart correct, and it's between a man and a woman. And it's protected in the Constitutions of 27 States in America. We don't have a difficulty understanding what marriage is. It's between a man and a woman. And yet we have activists in the country that are using our courts to try to redefine marriage. 
   I would submit that if you believe differently than me, come to this Congress and make your case. If you believe differently than the law, different than the 27 Constitutions in America, different than the Defense Marriage Act here in the Federal statute, then take your case to the States and make your argument there and lobby for the representatives and the State senators to redefine marriage if that is your wish, if that is your will, if that is your conviction. That is how it's done in this country. But when we hand over decisions to the courts when we know that we don't have the support of the people, then the people who hire the attorneys to take these suits to the courts are asking for an activist judge that will overturn the will of the people, will overturn the Constitution and overturn the State law or the Federal law, as the case may be, that's when we get strife, that's when we get stress in this country. That's when we get domestic conflict in America is when the judges make the laws. But when the people's voice is heard, we accept that as the will of the people and we move on. 
   If you believe differently than me, I believe marriage is between a man and a woman. I believe Iowa must pass a constitutional amendment now to fix a wrong that was committed, I believe, by an activist judge. I think we have to do that to preserve this oldest institution between people, this institution of marriage that goes back to the Garden of Eden and Adam and Eve, before original sin and before the great flood, and has survived all of that time. And now, here in this era, I am to believe that we're enlightened and we can look at this differently, that all of human experience, all of human history, and the Constitution and the law and our faith can all be set aside because we have modern-day people who want something different. And they would upset all of that for what? For their wish, for their will, when there are provisions that can be made within current law to make sure that people have the things in life that are necessary to respect their rights. 
   So life is essential. And it's a human life. Marriage is essential for a Presidential candidate to understand and to defend it because the President sets the moral standard for America, and the words that are uttered by a President either raise the standards or lower the standards. They shift the focus. And that's why marriage is so important that we have Presidential candidates that understand this. 
   The next issue that I mentioned is the war on terror. And we know that here in this city we were attacked on September 11, 2001. We've been conducting this global war on terror since that time, and particularly with operations within Iraq and Afghanistan. And who would have dreamed that on that day, September 11, we didn't think we'd get through the afternoon without being attacked again, let alone all of these 6 years and 3 months since that period of time. No one would have believed that this Nation would have been without a terrorist attack on its soil, a significant terrorist attack on this soil, at least a successful one. But that has been the case because this President has carried this issue to the enemy. The global war against these terrorists must be pursued. We cannot cut and run. We cannot decide to pull our troops back to the horizon. We can't wake up tomorrow morning and decide the horizon is Okinawa. We have a responsibility to defend this country in this global war on terror. And I believe, Madam Speaker, that at least the Republican candidates and probably the Democrat candidates will defend this Nation in this global war on terror, some more aggressively, some with more insight, some with a vision towards a final victory, some reluctantly because they don't really believe that this is a war that we're fighting. Some kind of think on the other side that we just need to understand why they hate us and maybe we can take away the reasons for the hate. But we have to fight this war on terror, and our Republican candidates all will, to one degree or another, a little bit of difference in methodology, but they'll fight this war on terror. 
   I mentioned the illegal immigration and how important that is. It changes our destiny, Madam Speaker. 
   And then the next component of this is tax reform. Now, there are people here in this Congress that believe that through money management, through tax management, regulation management, access to tax revenue and handing that money out, that we can engineer this entire society, that we can socially engineer in America with a tax policy, that if we just set our tax structure right, we can grow the businesses that need to grow and shrink the businesses we'd like to shrink and reward the people that need to be rewarded and punish the people that need to be punished. Some people think that through tax policy you can do all of those things. I am not among them, Madam Speaker. I believe that tax policy should be for the purposes of raising revenue, for the legitimate functions of government, for the constitutionally legitimate function of government and nothing else; that we should not have a thought about if we reward this behavior and punish this behavior  with our tax structure, that will maneuver this country into a direction that we like better. 
   We should have a tax structure that's fair, that makes everyone a taxpayer, that rewards earning, savings and investment and work and sweat equity. We need to have a kind of a tax policy that takes the tax off of all productivity in America and puts it on consumption. If we do that, and I would remind you, Madam Speaker, that the Federal Government has the first lien on all productivity in America. If you're going to produce in this country, if you punch the time clock at 8:00 on Monday morning, or if you go collect the interest on your passbook savings account, or if you sell the farm and you take the capital gains and you roll it over and you invest it into a factory with a production line and higher workers, wherever there's production, wherever there is a return on an investment, the Federal Government has the first lien. And Ronald Reagan said what we tax, we get less of. And so we hear with our tax policy, tax everything that produces and nothing that consumes. Well, little of what is consumed. And tax reform is a big issue. It's important. And I'll get back to that perhaps a little bit later, Madam Speaker. 
   One of the other issues that I mentioned that we want to make sure we can evaluate Presidential candidates in is the second amendment. Our gun rights, and if we look back in our Constitution under the second amendment, clearly, that we are guaranteed an individual right to keep and own firearms. A well-regulated militia being necessary to a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed. That's the second amendment, Madam Speaker. 
   There's a case before the United States Supreme Court that will come up perhaps in March of next year, and we will get the first decision of the Supreme Court on that question, I believe, in 70 years. But we need a President that will defend that right to keep and bear arms. 
   And I would remind the body, Madam Speaker, that the right to keep and bear arms is not a right for self-defense specifically. It wasn't written for that reason. It isn't necessarily a right to go out and target shoot or to hunt. Those things that I've mentioned, self-defense, hunting, target shooting, collecting firearms, all of those things are fringe benefits to the real reason for the second amendment. The real reason we have a right to keep and bear arms is because our forefathers feared tyranny, and they understood that a well-armed populace would not capitulate to a military state, that a dictator could not emerge and herd the people like sheep at the point of a bayonet if the people themselves had guns. That's the philosophy that's behind the second amendment. And you'll notice in the last 200-and-some years, we haven't had a single tyrant emerge as a leader here in America. Some would disagree with me, but I'm sure that they're wrong in any analysis. And one of those reasons is because of the restraint that's in place because the people in America hold guns within their possessions, within their homes. And that is a silent deterrent against the emergence of tyranny. And while that's going on, we're deterring tyranny, and we're protecting our homes and we get to enjoy target shooting and hunting and collecting. 
   And by the way, if you go over to the Smithsonian, Madam Speaker, you can walk through the collection of firearms that are there and track the history of America, as the history of America is written within the firearms that have defended the balance of our freedoms, and without that defense, the ability to defend our freedoms, none of the rest of this holds together. So the second amendment becomes an essential evaluation and how it's defended by a Presidential candidate. 
   And health care is an issue that we are constantly churning and it will be an issue in the next Presidential race. It is today in the caucus and in the primary, both among Democrats and Republicans, how would these Presidential candidates deal with health care. And it is 1/7 of our economy that is consumed in health care, Madam Speaker. That's a significant percentage. And I'll come back to that perhaps in a moment. 
   But I wanted to mention the last issue, which is our national sovereignty. And this national sovereignty issue is one that we give away if we don't control our borders. If we simply have 2,000 miles on the southern border and 4,000 miles on the northern border and open seashores on the Atlantic and on the Pacific, and people that want to come to America come, and those that want to go certainly are always free to leave, Madam Speaker, that is no sign of sovereignty. No nation that doesn't protect its borders will long be a nation. And if we do not protect our borders, if people flow back and forth at will, if they carry goods and contraband back and forth across the border at will, we are no longer a sovereign nation. We're just a location where people do business and trade, whether it's legitimate or illegitimate. This national sovereignty has an essential component, and it must be part of our decision-making process as we evaluate the Presidential candidates. 
   And so, Madam Speaker, as we come to this, I began to ask these questions. How do I sort these issues? And what stands out as the essential components of this decision-making process? And I'll read through this list again. Life, marriage, the war on terror, illegal immigration, tax reform, the second amendment, health care, protecting our national sovereignty. How do these top Presidential candidates on the Republican side, how do they shake out when I evaluate where they stand on these issues and what are the most important? 
   Well, as I look across this list, and having served in this Congress now for 5 years, I come to the conclusion that the next President, whether he's a Democrat or Republican, will defend access to health care in America. I don't think that there are any Americans that are in danger of losing their access to health care under any policy that's advocated by a Republican or a Democrat. It might come in a different form from the Democrat side of the aisle. It would be universal socialized medicine. That's clearly in the debate platform and there's no one over there that disagrees. They're all talking about how they would provide socialized medicine, not whether.     
   That's not a disagreement. On the Republican side, there is discussion about this, and I don't know Republican candidates that support socialized medicine. Some have varying degrees on how they would approach this, but all would ensure that all Americans have access to health care. 
   So I don't think health care becomes the deciding issue by which I should throw my support behind an individual Presidential candidate. It's important. We'll debate it, we'll protect it, we'll preserve it, and hopefully we'll make it better. And I bring some ideas to this Congress that I hope can get implemented, along with many of my colleagues. I had a meeting this morning, as a matter of fact. So I will set health care off on the side and I will say it's not in jeopardy. I think that all Presidential candidates will preserve and protect access to health care. 
   Then I look at the war on terror and also come to the same conclusion that, on the Republican side at least, all Presidential candidates will continue to conduct this war on terror. We understand who our enemy is far better today than we did 6 years and 3 months ago and we will understand our enemy better a year from now. And the next President of the United States will understand this enemy better than we did 4 years ago, and certainly 8 years ago. 
   But I believe that this Congress supports this global war on terror. It's a battle. You brought 40 resolutions against us, but the American people are going to continue to defeat this enemy that is seeking to kill us. I believe the next Republican will do the same. And I think it's a matter of debate and degrees; whether Rudy Giuliani would have the most insight and be the most aggressive or whether John McCain would have the most insight and be the most aggressive. There are strong convictions on the part of Mitt Romney or Fred Thompson or Mike Huckabee, would all stand up to this foe, would all work to defeat our enemies, would all narrow the laser beam down on Osama bin Laden and on al Qaeda. And I think all would work to promote our American values overseas so that the people over there understand that we want to help them rid  themselves of the habitat that breeds that kind of terror. I think that happens. 
   So I think I can put health care over on the side and say it's not at risk in this nomination. Americans are going to be okay. We can debate this in Congress on how we want to move forward with it, but let's set it off on the side because we're going to be all right with it. Let's set the global war on terror off on the side because I believe that all Presidential candidates will fight that. 
   And as I take these issues on down then, the second amendment is another one. It's important. It's essential. We need to protect our right to keep and bear arms, and yet this Congress will protect our second amendment rights. The courts, I believe we will discover in March, or if the decision comes down the following June, that they will have protected our second amendment rights and written for a long time a definitive word on the meaning and the understanding of the second amendment to be consistent with our historical readings and understanding and the text of the Constitution. I think that happens. And I think, even with an unfriendly President on the second amendment, I think that this Congress in the end protects our second amendment rights. So as much as I believe in the second amendment, I think I can set that over on this side with the war on terror and with health care, those three in that category, that we can protect and defend this another way. 
   But what does it take a President to do? What will the next President do that will turn the destiny of the United States the most profoundly for the good, or miss that opportunity by taking a wrong turn and never being able to get back to the interstate again? And I believe the next President will make probably two appointments to the Supreme Court, maybe more, and these will be significant appointments to the Court. 
   I think it's imperative that we elect a President who understands that the nominees to the Supreme Court must be originalists, they must be textualists, they must be the kind of jurists who read the Constitution and understand that the Constitution means what it says, means the text that's in the Constitution. They must be the kind of judiciary that look at the Constitution and understand that we need to evaluate it within the original understanding of the Constitution because, without that, without originalism, without textualists, without the original intent of the Constitution as the foundational criterion for determining the constitutionality of current law, without that, the Constitution is no guarantee at all, except a guarantee to the justices to be able to manipulate their decisions to move this society in the direction they choose, as if they were legislators. 
   The last people that should be amending our Constitution, whether literally amending it or de facto amending the Constitution by their decisions, are the nine Justices of the Supreme Court. The next President has to understand that. And he cannot ask the question of the potential nominees for the Court, are you pro-life or are you pro-choice? Are you pro-marriage or are you pro gay marriage? They can't ask that question because that would interfere with the confirmation process. It would interfere with the decision-making process. And, in fact, I don't ask those questions of the judges myself because I know they have to make a decision on the case that's before them. We would be asking them to make a decision on a case that hasn't been written or presented to them, perhaps. 
   But they need to be the kind of justices that have profound and reverent respect for this Constitution, for its meaning, for its guarantee. Because in it is the guarantee of our rights and our freedom like none other on the face of this Earth. And we cannot have a justice, or five of the nine, that decide they want to social engineer by the decisions that they make. 
   This next President must understand this, must have advisers that will probe into the potential nominees, and must come down with nominations of the kind of quality that we see in Justice Roberts, Justice Alito, two stellar appointments to the Supreme Court made by President Bush. If we can continue down that line, we will eventually see the justices in the lower courts start to respect the text of the Constitution, too. And then, in my perfect world, they will start to teach the Constitution in con law in law school instead of teaching off the case law. I know some of you do. Many do not. And that is essential. 
   So the issues for the next President to understand and promote and embody are the appointments to the Supreme Court being essential, that they be originalists, within the vein of Roberts and Alito. I want those decisions to come down on the Constitution, not on their will or their whim of what the policy should be; not in some legal contortionist approach to try to arrive at a conclusion that fits their social liberalism. I want a justice that can maybe come to a conclusion that, even though they disagree with the policy that unfolds, the Constitution says so, they must follow it. That becomes the most important thing. And life and marriage do hang in the balance on that, but those decisions will be made off the Constitution in my future world, not off the whim of the policy because we wish it so. 
   So as I look down through this list, life and marriage, wrapped up in the original understanding of the Constitution, that being, I think, the most important, and then the issue of our national sovereignty wrapped up within the immigration issue, who will defend our borders? Who is strong and who is silent? And as I evaluate the Presidential candidates, there are some who have clearly supported our amnesty policy. And the Senator from Arizona has a policy such that has his name on it, or at least did have, the McCain-Kennedy. And some of that has changed, but the debate is the same and the policy is the same. It is amnesty. He served America honorably for every day of his adult life, and I have profound respect for Senator McCain. He and I disagree on the amnesty issue and on the border. And I think that our national sovereignty and the destiny of America is turned if we don't uphold the rule of law. 
   I'm concerned about the mayor of a sanctuary city, Rudy Giuliani, who has essentially presided over a city that the ``broken windows'' policy is wonderful. It set a standard and cleaned up a city, but it did not preserve and protect the rule of law when it came to immigration. This Nation cannot be sustained if we don't uphold the central pillar of American exceptionalism, the rule of law. Those things weigh heavy in my head and on my heart and on my instincts when it comes to the evaluation process. 
   It weighs heavy on me that the State of Arkansas, to some degree, has become a sanctuary State because of the promotion there of the DREAM Act. Now, it has a nice name, but what it is is scholarships for illegals to go to college. And also opposition there for a ban on tax dollars going to welfare to illegals. People that are unlawfully present in the United States, the question needs to be asked and answered to each of these Presidential candidates, and I would implore you, you have this opportunity in places like Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina, ask these Presidential candidates, what would you do with the people here in the United States who are unlawfully here, whether they came across illegally on the border or overstayed their visa, how would you deal with them? Would you send them home, or wouldn't you, if they had broken no other laws? And if the answer is, well, we can make some other accommodation, or I would send them to college under a scholarship program, or I would grant them a path to citizenship, all of those things are amnesty. 
   If we don't have the will to send people home when we encounter them on the streets of America through our local law enforcement, for example, if we don't have the will to send them home, then we cannot have an immigration policy that is established here by the people in America. Our immigration policy will be driven by people in foreign countries that, some who drive here, some who take a boat here, some who fly here, but they come to America and do what they want to do, and then we have Presidential candidates out there that would adjust our national policy to accommodate their wish, their will, their whim against the wishes of the American people, against the rule of law. I think that weighs heavily when we make decisions on  who we support for President, weighs heavily if they have supported amnesty, and weighs heavily if they've advocated policies like sanctuary cities, if they've presided over sanctuary cities. It weighs heavily if protecting that central pillar of American exceptionalism, rule of law, has been sacrificed to a whim because of a heart taking over where the head needs to rule. We need to have tough love or we will be sacrificing the rule of law. And I am quite concerned that we have a series of Presidential candidates that won't hold their ground on that issue because holding their ground on the immigration issue holds our ground on the sovereignty issue. 
   Now, if they would make the right appointments to the Supreme Court, that's going to be, to some degree, a redeeming characteristic, but in the end, the right appointments to the Supreme Court and the sacrifice of our national sovereignty and the importation of every willing traveler changes forever the face of America. We have a unique American character, a unique American spirit. We have a vitality here, much of which comes from having skimmed the cream of the crop off the donor civilizations through the process of a legal immigration policy, and we have such a massive illegal policy that we can no longer have a debate in this Congress on a legal immigration policy. We need a President to lead us out of that, not a President that leads us into that mess even further. 
   To think of the idea of another 4 or 8 years of hypercompassionate conservatism that would grant a DREAM Act scholarship to people who are here illegally, or grant paths to citizenship to reward people who are unlawfully present here in the United States, that would not uphold the rule of law, undermines our sovereignty, what America do we have left? 
   If we have a court that would preserve life and marriage, but we don't have a national sovereignty that's protected because the heart of a presidential candidate ruled over their head, then we sacrifice our sovereignty and our destiny. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, I submit this: Look through the list of the issues that matter, life, marriage, the war on terror, illegal immigration, tax reform, the second amendment, health care, and our national sovereignty. Look at those issues that we can put over to the side and say, we can protect them and promote them here from Congress and we think all the Presidential candidates will stand behind them, and those would be the war on terror, the tax reform issue, which probably doesn't change our destiny right now, but we can put that off on the side because I just think that it's not a destiny changer at this moment. The second amendment we will protect here in this Congress. It's important, but we'll protect it. Health care is important, but we'll protect it. It's not constitutional, by the way, for those of you who are wondering. But what it comes down to is life, marriage and our national sovereignty as viewed through whether we will protect our borders. 
   Ask yourselves: Do these Presidential candidates understand these issues? What is their focus on life and marriage? What confidence do you have in their judicial appointments all the way down the line? But ask yourselves, where are they in the end? Are they for or against amnesty? Do they stand up for amnesty, as I have defined it, or do they redefine it for their own purpose because their heart leads their head? 
   I hope you make some sound decisions and make a solid recommendation to America. I thank you for your attention tonight, Madam Speaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009 -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman for his commitment to fiscal responsibility of this Congress. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Flake). 
   The question was taken; and the Acting Chairman announced that the noes appeared to have it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009 -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, my amendment is an amendment that has come to this floor in different fashions in the past, and it deals with the Davis-Bacon federally mandated wage scale. The amendment simply says none of the funds made available in this act may be used to enforce the Davis-Bacon Act. 
   Davis-Bacon is a federally mandated wage scale that was established in about 1932, and the motivation for it was New York contractors that wanted to keep black American workers out of the trade unions as they began to bid projects such as Federal buildings in New York and reach down to places like Alabama to get cheaper labor, bring that labor in, and undercut the trade unions in New York. Congressman Davis and I believe it was Senator Bacon, or vice versa, came forward with this legislation. 
   It is, Mr. Chairman, the last vestige of the Jim Crow laws we have had in this country designed to keep African Americans out of this work. That is the legacy of it. The fact of it is that it's a federally mandated union wage scale. It is not prevailing wage. I worked under it all of my life, and the people that report these wage scales to the survey are people that report union scale. Merit shop employers do not report those wage scales very often because they know that the union will show up to organize them, and there is a penalty for filing those report that has to do with fight off union organizations. 
   The effect of it is a high cost to taxpayers, Mr. Chairman. A high cost to the taxpayers, by my calculations of being 28 years in construction business and dealing with these wage scales on a regular basis, that ranges, depending on how much of your project is labor versus how much is material, my own calculations range between 8 percent on the low side of inflated price, to 35 percent on the higher side. 
   It inflates wages by about the 22 percent, according to a Beacon Hill study of 2008. Their studies shows a 9.91 percent increase in the overall cost of the projects that is anchored to this federally mandated union scale. 
   It raises public constructions costs by about $8.6 billion a year. According to a CBO estimate, the Federal Government could save $10.5 billion in construction costs if Davis-Bacon were repealed. I am committed to the overall repeal of Davis-Bacon, and taking a bite at it every chance I get. 
   The small business burden is another component. Small employers avoid Davis-Bacon wage scale jobs, and I know and those of us in the business know that if there are federally mandated wage scales on projects, there are fewer bidders. Larger contractors that are union contractors bid those jobs without much competition from smaller contractors because the bureaucracy is so heavy, the reporting is so heavy. In fact, I myself have sat in there hours and hours, way into the night,  filling out minute paperwork so that it can go gather dust in some bureaucrat's desk until something comes wrong and then they come back and bring charges against you. I put it all on an Excel spreadsheet and track every motion of every man, every machine that operates or maintain or moves the machine so that we can file a report that will be full and complete. In fact, that strategy was adopted by the regulators. 
   The small business burden is too great, the taxpayer burden is too great. This is a union-mandated scale. We don't need to be building less projects or less work on our bases for military. We need to build more. We don't needless bang for the taxpayers' buck, we need more, Mr. Chairman. 
   So imposing a Davis-Bacon wage scale in the MilCon appropriations bill here moves us backwards from a progress standpoint. It will make sure that we produce fewer projects and it will mean that it will inflate the cost of the projects that we do some place between 8 and 35 percent. My number that I use is 20 percent, to pick an average. The number that Beacon Hill uses 9.91 percent increase in prices. Why would anybody buy into that? 
   By the way, their measurements measure a calculation compared to today's merit shop employers, but today's merit shop employers, and the union scale employers, but those wages do not reflect the actual supply and demand, like labor is a commodity like any other commodity. They reflect already the impact of federally imposed wage scales in the neighborhood. So there is no real measure of those wages from a competitive standpoint. 
   I want to get back to free market. I want the merit shop employees, who do a great job, to receive their reward for the work they do. It also is an impediment to an employer, like I have been for most of my adult life, because under the scale that you pay in the merit shop, you can put people on payroll for all 12 months of the year, and I put them in the shop when I need them, hand them a shovel, or put them on a crane or excavator when I need them there and I don't have to dance through all this paperwork. It's an impediment to bring people in that are low skilled because you can't afford to pay them those imposed wage scales it. 
   It keeps us from bringing people up through the process. It is inflationary. It's unjust, it's un-American, and it's the last vestige of Jim Crow. 
   I urge adoption of my amendment and I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 1585, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - December 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I oppose the provisions in this conference report, unilaterally added by the Senate, that provide immigration benefits to certain Iraqi refugees. As Ranking Member of the House ``Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law,'' these provisions should have been discussed in their proper place, the House Judiciary Committee. However, I along with Ranking Member SMITH, were basically excluded from negotiations. There is no bipartisan support for these provisions in the House Judiciary Committee. 
   This bill grants special immigrant visas each year for the next 5 years to 5,000 Iraqi nationals and their families. The State Department has estimated that for every Iraqi national granted a visa, they will bring over at least four family members. Therefore, the number of special immigrant visas granted under this bill will reach 25,000 per year, or 125,000 total after 5 years. 
   Mr. Speaker, 125,000 Iraqis that support the United States would be a tremendous asset to  Iraq and the United States in the Middle East. These Iraqis should remain in their home country to rebuild it and encourage the spread of liberty. If we remove every Iraqi that is supportive of the U.S. from Iraq, terrorists will have the upper hand. Iraq and the United States need these patriotic Iraqis to remain in Iraq and rebuild. 
   While I sympathize with the Iraqi nationals who have been victims of this War on Terror, conditions within the country are improving. I encourage the Iraqis to stay and fight for their homeland and freedom alongside American troops. That's how we win this War on Terror. 
   For these reasons I oppose the provisions in the Conference Report to H.R. 1585 that provide U.S. immigration benefits to certain Iraqi refugees, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. Vote ``no'' on the Rule. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I very much thank the senior and esteemed leader, Mr. King from New York, for yielding to me. 
   I want to start a point here, Mr. Speaker, that I would ask all Members to focus on to understand where we really sit in history, in this course of history. If you would go back to the most successful military known in history for the longest period of time, spanning centuries, it was the Roman legions. And the Romans had a statement called ``nosce hostem,'' which, of course, is Latin for ``know thine enemy.'' We need to do that here in this Congress. We are part of this effort, of course. Know thine enemy. Von Clausewitz wrote the book on war, his treatise on war, that everyone goes to because he boiled it down to understandable principles, certainly ``know thine enemy,'' but his point was the object of war is to destroy the enemy's will and ability to conduct war. 
   Now, if you know your enemy and you are going to destroy their will and ability to conduct war, you wouldn't just go after their ability, you would go after their will as well. So that has been true throughout history. And if you were charged with the task of defeating the preeminent world's Superpower in, say, about the year 1963 under President Kennedy, ``How do you defeat undefeated America?'' was the question that was presented to the Vietnamese. 
   Enter General Vo Nguyen Giap. He was the general that orchestrated the Vietnamese effort throughout the war in Vietnam. He certainly understood history. He understood the Roman legions. He understood nosce hostem. He also understood that you had to defeat the will and the ability of the United States if you were going to defeat them. He knew that he couldn't defeat our ability. He had to attack our will. And that is what happened. 
   And he wrote the book. This is the primer, ``How Do You Defeat the United States of America?'' by General Vo Nguyen Giap. How We Won the War is the title of it. And in the primer he said, ``The beginning was when the United States failed to succeed in a complete victory in Korea, then we knew the will of the United States was weakened. On page 18 he talks about how they went after the will of the United States through public opinion, how they supported it and encouraged the antiwar activists because they knew they couldn't win militarily. So their front on the war that had the greatest chance for success was with the will of the American people. Here is the primer. 
   Our enemies read this primer, Mr. Speaker. They understand this. And one of our enemies over there is Moqtada al-Sadr, who laid it out for us when he said on June 11, 2004, and I saw this on al-Jazeera TV when I was in Kuwait, ``If we continue attacking Americans, they will leave Iraq the same way that they left Vietnam, the same way that they left Lebanon, the same way that they left Mogadishu.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, that is the message that his people heard. That is the message we should hear. I have heard it. I have put it on this floor many times. A couple nights ago I put Moqtada al-Sadr down here on the floor. In the night he went off to Iran to join up with the people who have been supporting him. He understands this. 
   I will tell you this. If this resolution passes and if Mr. Murtha and the people who are working with him are successful in a slow bleed of our resources, then what you will see, Mr. Speaker, is you will see Osama bin Laden say, If we keep attacking America they will leave Afghanistan the same way they left Vietnam, Lebanon, Mogadishu, and Iraq. That is what is coming. That is what is being perpetrated by the rhetoric here on this floor. That is what is being staged in appropriations bills that we will certainly see coming after this resolution. 
   The destiny of America is put at risk, Mr. Speaker, and this says to all of our enemies it is easy to take on the United States if you can just get Congress to lose their will, if you can get them to lose their spine. 
   So I would then simply close with the reiteration of a request made from a major from Kentucky whom I met with in my last trip over there in Iraq. He loves his kids and his cows and he loves God and I know he speaks the truth. He said, ``We have everything we need. So when you pray for us, pray for the American people. Pray they understand the threat and pray they do not lose their resolve. We will not lose ours.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate this profound honor to have the opportunity to address you here on the floor of the United States House of Representatives, the People's House. 
   I would reflect that all week long, starting really on Tuesday morning, we have had a series of marathon debates taking place here, Mr. Speaker, marathon debates that ranged in the area of 12 hours a day, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday until after 1 a.m. this morning, taking up again this morning shortly after 8 o'clock, and then moving on until mid-afternoon, when we finally had a vote on the resolution, the resolution that was offered by the majority, the resolution that in one voice said, we honor the troops, and the  other voice said, but we are opposed to the reinforcements and opposed to the surge that the President had ordered, the surge that is already in motion, the troops, many of them have already been deployed, and it is not possible to back out of this. 
   So the voice that came, Mr. Speaker, to the people across this world was answered and was heard in a lot of different ways. 
   On one side of it, the antiwar movement within the United States, the activists, liberal left, the protesters that are, at least if not the people that were in the streets during Vietnam, were descendants of the people that were in the streets during Vietnam, philosophically, if not literally, and in many cases it was both. They heard a message, which is, at every cost, the Speaker's leadership is going to drag our military and pull our Commander in Chief back of their commitment to the Iraqi people in the Middle East. 
   And the other voice, a voice was heard by a number of American people, stalwart patriots, people who believe in the destiny of America and understand that there is a price to be paid by each succeeding generation because of the decisions that are made by the preceding generations. We are the recipients of the sacrifice of our Founders and of every generation's sacrifice, starting with the shaping of the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, those veterans of the Revolutionary War, those who supported the effort in the Revolutionary War, those who shaped the Constitution, Mr. Speaker, those that built the economy, those that built the churches, those that built the schools, those that built the communities that link together, which is this greater American civilization, we are the beneficiaries. 
   The decisions that they made July 4, 1776, to pick a point we all understand, we benefitted from that decision. And it was a hard decision. And it wasn't a decision that was made without great concern or without great debate. There was. And there was dissension on both sides. 
   Some of the people that were opposed to freedom, a free nation, were identified as the Tories, the people that aligned with the British. They didn't think it was worth the price. They didn't want to risk the blood. They didn't want to risk the treasure. They thought that they could suffer the indignities and the injustices that were being poured upon them from the crown, and that was more tolerable than the price that would have to be paid for freedom. 
   But freedom won out. Freedom was established. And they pledged their lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor, and they did so knowing that they might very well lose their lives and their fortunes, but they would never lose their sacred honor. That was the creed that came from the Founding Fathers, and that was just the Revolutionary War. Of course, it was the biggest and most significant. 
   But, shortly after that, we had another conflict, and one of those conflicts, Mr. Speaker, was one that started out over in the Mediterranean. The hostilities between the United States and the British concluded in 1783. That was when the military victory was won by George Washington, and that was when, also, the protection of the Union Jack that flew over the seas and the oceans was removed from the protection of our Merchant Marine. 
   So 1783, our Merchant Marine, our ship sailing on the high seas, lost the Union Jack protection, the intimidation of the British Royal Navy, 1783. 1784, American ships were attacked and boarded and pirated, and our sailors were forced into slavery, and the cargos were sold, and the ships were put back into the fleets of the Barbary pirates, the Barbary pirates being the predecessors of the enemy that we have today. 
   And it is an interesting study in history, Mr. Speaker, to see what unfolded here in the history of the United States when we sent our best diplomats over to the Mediterranean to negotiate with the Barbary pirates. Those were Thomas Jefferson and John Adams. 
   Now, I have here a copy, Mr. Speaker, this is of the papers of Thomas Jefferson, right here, volume nine. This is dated 1785, November 1, 1785 to 1786. This is the report that Thomas Jefferson returned upon his conclusion of his diplomat mission to the Tripoli pirates. 
   In a paragraph that he has written to the American commissioners and John Jay he says, soon after the arrival of Mr. Jay in London, we had a conference with the ambassador of Tripoli at his house. This ambassador of Tripoli was a representative of the Islamic Caliphate. And he says, he writes, ``We took the liberty to make some inquiries concerning the grounds of their pretensions to make war upon nations who had done them no injury,'' meaning the United States of America, ``and observed that we consider all mankind as our friends, who had done us no wrong, nor had given us any provocation.'' 
   In other words, the statement that came from Thomas Jefferson and John Adams was, to the ambassador from Tripoli, we consider you friends. We have had no hostilities toward you. We have not provoked you in any way. We are simply sailing our ships on the high seas and providing open commerce and trade like any country would do. Why do you attack us? Why do you kill us? Why do you press our sailors into slavery? 
   Jefferson answered, The ambassador from Tripoli answered us that it was founded on the laws of their prophet, that it was written in their Koran that all nations who should not have acknowledged their authority were sinners, the authority of the Koran. I continue quoting, that it was their right and duty to make war upon them wherever they could be found and to make slaves of all they could take as prisoners and that every Muslim who should be slain in battle was sure to go to paradise. 
   That is from the negotiations that took place in 1786, and that is from Jefferson's report to John Jay. 
   Now, here we are, 2006. We are going through this debate, Mr. Speaker, and I am hearing over and over again there is a reason why they hate us. We should understand why they hate us. If we could figure that out, maybe we could change our ways and we could find a way to accommodate our disagreements, because surely there are two sides to every argument. 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, I am here to submit that Thomas Jefferson understood this thing clearly. He understood a principle that I laid out this afternoon in debate called nosce hostem, which is a Latin term. It comes from the Roman legions, and that is Latin for ``know thine enemy''. 
   The Romans understood, and they were the most successful long-term military legions in history all the time up to that point and maybe in all of history. They had to know their enemy, and they had to persevere, and that is where that term came, nosce hostem, know thine enemy. 
   Thomas Jefferson understood the same thing.     
   And, in fact, his curiosity and his compulsion to understand and know the enemy caused him to go out and buy a Koran, and that Koran was part of his opposition research, if you will. And Jefferson's being one of the most curious individuals as a figure in our history and maybe the most learned man of his time, he studied Greek so that he could read the Greek Bible and do the translation himself. He wasn't quite satisfied with just King James. He wanted to do that comparison because he was that much of an intellectual and he had that level of curiosity. He had the same level of intellectual curiosity in understanding our enemy the Barbary pirates; so his study of the Koran, I am confident, concurred with his report back to John Jay that was handed over to Congress, that report that says they believe their path to salvation is in killing us. 
   So Jefferson persevered in his endeavor to understand our enemy. He studied Koran, understood our enemy, put the report in place, and in that one simple paragraph is an explanation of our enemy today. And there is quote after quote after quote that have been brought forward here by my colleagues on this side of the aisle in the last several days that support that statement. Statements made by Osama bin Laden, statements made by Zawahiri, statements made by other leaders of al Qaeda where they say their religious duty, their responsibility, is to keep attacking infidels; infidels, being defined as unbelievers in their Koran; unbelievers, being those who have not sworn allegiance to Islam.  
   And you saw that in that quote where he said that they continued to attack us wherever we might be found until we either converted to Islam or pay homage or are beheaded. And historically looking back, most of us recognize when we say ``leathernecks,'' that means the Marine Corps today. That nickname came from the Barbary pirate wars when they went to the shores of Tripoli, and our Marine Corps wore heavy thick leather collars, Mr. Speaker. Those collars were worn to reduce the number of marines that would be beheaded by the swinging swords of the Barbary pirates. 
   The beheadings of today are not anything new. These are beheadings that go back throughout time, throughout the Crusades, clear back to a thousand years ago, Mr. Speaker. And our enemy believes they are fighting that same war. They carry that same grudge. But furthermore, it is a religious conviction on their part. It is not something that can be negotiated away. And to believe that we could resolve this conflict by negotiations is a myopic and naive position. We cannot. If that were the case, I am going to trust Jefferson would have found a way, Adams would have found a way, all of our negotiators in the past would have found a way. Some of them would have found a way at least. 
   But we fought the Barbary pirates, and it was a herky-jerky, hit-and-miss, not always successful effort. But we did occupy some land there, and we did force them into submission, and we did get a kind of an agreement to resolve the disputes. But the battles between Western civilization and the Barbary pirates and the radical world of Islam of that era really didn't end until 1830, and I am going to go on record here in the Congressional Record, Mr. Speaker, when the French culminated a military operation and occupied Algiers. When they did that in 1830, that was essentially, at least for modern times, the end of the violence. Scattered incidents to be sure, but for the majority the end of the violence between the radical Islamists who were the Barbary pirates of that era up until 1830 and then move us forward to about 1979 when these hostilities started again. They lay dormant. They were essentially in submission. They didn't have many tools to work with. Some of them had been colonized. And during that period of time, they didn't get ahold of governments. They didn't have a place to start. They didn't have an ability transportation-wise to come out here and attack the rest of the world. 
   But things happened and we moved into the modern world. And when the Cold War was over and there was no longer this titanic struggle between the world's two Superpowers and that power vacuum, in came al Qaeda. In came the Taliban. In came the radicals to fill that void. And the philosophical support became there. The funding was there from oil. The real oil wealth began to pour into those Islamic states in the 1970s. And if you remember the oil cartels of that era, the gas lines here, Jimmy Carter's legacy, the 444 days of 52 American hostages paraded in front of the television, and the only way they were going to be released was to elect a President that they were afraid of. So that is why you saw the split screen of Ronald Reagan taking the oath of office and those 52 hostages being released at the same time. But that became the beginning of this constant battle that we have now with the jihadists of today. And they have been empowered by oil wealth, families that are wealthy, by the religious network of radical Islam. 
   Now, to help explain this a little bit, Mr. Speaker, I use an analogy here that is something that I have not heard from anywhere else. I look around and I think how do I compare what is going on? How am I to stand up and say I am opposed to the radical Islam, these jihadists, without directly attacking Islam itself? Many times the President has made the statement that Islam is a ``religion of peace.'' I am looking for more evidence of that before I am going to step up and resoundingly endorse that statement, but I am not willing to indict them at this point, Mr. Speaker. I would rather compare it this way: I am going to say the radical Islam, the jihadists, are a parasite that lives on and within the host called Islam. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, when you think about what that means, a parasite living on and within a host, a parasite will ride on a host, feed off a host, reproduce off a host, drop off and attack other species, but also attack the host species. This goes on over and over again. And I could take you down through some different species of parasites to make my case, but it remains a biological fact that that is what a parasite does. 
   A parasite doesn't respect its host to the point where it will refrain from killing the host. Sometimes the parasite will kill the host. Think in terms of a tapeworm that will draw all of the nutrients out of the host until the host becomes so scrawny and so disheveled and so weak that the host actually expires. That will happen. There are other parasites that will do the same thing, but there are many parasites that will attack more than one species. 
   This parasite called radical Islam, these jihadists, attack many species. They attack every species of Homo sapien, for that matter. They attack Jews as their preferred target. They attack Christians as a preferred target. They attack capitalists as a preferred target. And when they can do a two-fer, a Jewish capitalist, a Christian capitalist, a Western civilization representative, secular capitalist, they are all for doing that because they know that that destabilizes the civilization that they abhor. 
   This parasite called jihadists also attacks Islam itself. Moderate Muslims are killed in greater numbers than anybody else historically over the last 30 or so years because the destabilization that takes place is where they thrive. This parasite called jihad, the jihadist, lives and it grows and it thrives in an 
   anarchy. 
   So they are seeking to create anarchy. They are attacking the host called Islam, but a host will always provide that food. It will provide the transportation. It provides a home for the parasite. The parasite jihadist, radical Islam, lives within Islam. And so radical Islam goes to the mosques where they preach their hatred and they help sort out those that are truly convicted on the jihad side. The most radical of those are identified by their response, their reaction, and they are connected to and recruited out of the mosques. Many people who go to the mosques are peaceful people. They all aren't. And that is a center where the communication comes through. 
   The language itself is another tool that helps this parasite called jihadists communicate. So the Arabic language itself is a conduit, Mr. Speaker; a common conduit through the language, a common conduit through the mosque system, a common conduit because of common nationalities and identification with each other. You tie that all together and then you pick the radicals out, and that is how you sort out the species of the parasite jihadists. 
   But the host hasn't done much to eradicate the parasite from its midst. I haven't seen Islam step up and decide that they are going to eradicate radical Islam from their midst. No. For a number of reasons. One, they are afraid to confront them. They don't know what the price will be. Another one is they are not quite sure they really want to side with the people that are on our side of this argument. Some of them are also dancing in the streets with their radical jihadists when something goes bad for the people on our side, this Western civilization, which I think encompasses the world that the jihadists are opposed to. Western civilization including Christians, Jews, the Judeo Christian ethic, the free market ethic, the liberal democracies that we have that provide freedom for people and give us this flexibility to define our own future. They hate freedom, as the President has said many times, and they attack freedom. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, this is a difficult nut to crack. And I would like to charge Islam with eradicating that parasite in their midst. I do think it is part their responsibility, but I am not hearing them step up to this task. So I am looking forward to the day that that happens, Mr. Speaker, but until it does, we have a war to fight. 
   We have a task ahead of us, and this task that is ahead of us is a great big, difficult task. And it is far more difficult today, Mr. Speaker, than it was a week ago because of the message that came out of this Chamber all week long, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,  and this morning up until mid-afternoon, and especially because of the vote; the vote that passed a resolution that said we support our troops and oppose their mission. I mean a third grader can figure out that that logic doesn't fit. You have got to do one or the other, and they are tied together. You don't send your military off and ask them to put their lives on the line for a mission that you don't believe in. And to say to them, ``I am all for you, buddy, but if you get shot over there, if you give your life over there, I can't say that you did it for a good cause because it is a bad cause.'' That is what got said over here. 
   This is a good cause. This is a just cause, Mr. Speaker. And our troops have been undermined today and yesterday and the day before and the day before that. And now they have got to carry out a mission, and it is a lot harder than it has ever been over there. 
   And our enemy has been encouraged, Mr. Speaker. They have got the words that have been said over here, these quotes put up. They have got to be all over al-Jazeera, over the Islamic blogosphere. There have got to be people dancing in the streets all over the land where they recruit our enemies because they know what this means. They know what it means because they study history. 
   And, Mr. Speaker, I have studied history as well. And part of that history is, first of all, the United States of America is a Nation that, up until the conclusion of the Korean War, had never lost a war. We had been successful in every conflict that we had engaged in. And I grew up under that. I grew up with a military father and military uncles on both sides of the family. They sat around a lot and talked. The United States of America, of all the Nations in the world, has never lost a war. And the reason we haven't lost a war is because we believe in freedom. 
   And you are a lucky young man, STEVE KING, for being born in the United States of America. You could have been born anywhere else, but you were born here. You are a recipient of that freedom that they fought for and each preceding generation had fought for. And I was extraordinarily blessed. I am, Mr. Speaker, but I was raised with a reverence for that freedom and the understanding of the price that was paid for it. And up until that time we had been successful in every conflict. They didn't quite define the Korean War except to say, well, we won that, but nobody talked about that very much. 
   I bring this up, Mr. Speaker, because I picked up a book a little while back. I had to do a little searching to find it. And the title of the book is How We Won the War. By General Vo Nguyen Giap. He was a Vietnamese general who commanded their troops throughout the entire period of time that they were in conflict with the United States of America in Vietnam. And his comment in there that caught my eye first was ``It all began when the United States failed to win a clear victory in Korea,'' Mr. Speaker. 
   If you remember, Korea was resolved in the early 1950s, I think 1952, but when it was resolved, it ended up being on the 38th parallel. We had pushed the Chinese back north of the 38th parallel. We had gone north to the 38th parallel with U.N. troops as well, and pushed back to the 38th. The resolution came, and we shut down the fight on that 38th parallel line, which is pretty much back to the same line before the invasion came from the North Koreans.     
   So it was fought essentially to a draw, and the line was the same line that the war began on. My father and their generation didn't acknowledge that we failed to win that war. They neither acknowledged or said or even implied that we lost it. I think we fought it to a draw. 
   But when General Giap took over in Vietnam, Dien Bien Phu came along in the mid-fifties and the French had lost, and President Kennedy ordered our troops into Vietnam in 1963, by my recollection, and the Vietnamese had to look at what was coming at them. This big industrial Nation, this sleeping giant, formerly sleeping giant, there was only about not even two decades after World War II, a huge, powerful industrial, military and economic force in the world, was coming into South Vietnam to help support the freedom fighting people in South Vietnam. He had to come to a conclusion on how they were going to fight so great a nation. 
   He had seen the French lose their resolve at Dien Bien Phu. They lost their resolve along the way. And he knew something Clausewitz had written about in his book on war years before, when Clausewitz said the object of war is to destroy the enemy's will and ability to conduct war. Will and ability, two factors that are the targets of war. 
   Now, you can destroy the enemy's ability to conduct war. You can wipe out all their tanks and take all their guns. You can take their swords, knives and hatchets. They can be totally devoid of arms. But if they still have the will to fight, they are going to come at with you with sticks and clubs and fists and boots, if they still have the will. That is what Clausewitz understood. It is a two-section effort when you go to fight a war. You are going after the ability to conduct war, the enemy's ability to conduct war, and you are trying to destroy their will to conduct war. 
   So as Giap analyzed that, he realized he could never destroy our ability to conduct war. We could always pour more and more munitions into the fight. We could send our ships and planes over and we could always pour more bombs in there and always could bring more soldiers in. 
   So the strategy was how do you then attack, damage, weaken and destroy the United States' will to conduct war? And the North Vietnamese, General Giap in particular, recognized that their best ally in that war wasn't an AK-47 or a ChiCom grenade. What it was was the anti-war movement in the United States. 
   So they encouraged that movement, and nurtured it and negotiated with it. And they brought Jane Fonda over there and put her in a gun emplacement in Hanoi, and that encouraged the anti-war movement here in the United States. They sent the photo-op back. There were a number of photo-ops like that. 
   You heard from the great Sam Johnson at this very microphone earlier this afternoon, Mr. Speaker, when he talked about how the voices of the anti-war leaders in America were transmitted across loud speakers in the Hanoi Hilton where Sam spent far too many days, 2,500 days in captivity, and how those voices demoralized our POWs in Vietnam. 
   But General Giap understood, we are destroying the United States' will to conduct war. The frontal assault on the will of the American people was going on relentlessly and persistently, and it says in his book, their best ally was the anti-war movement here in the United States. 
   So here we are today, Mr. Speaker, and the enemy has been encouraged. There is nothing that came out of that side of the aisle that discouraged the enemy. I can't think of a single word, maybe one speaker, and that would have been a little bit qualified, that would have discouraged the enemy. Over on this side, just hearing Sam Johnson, if I were the enemy, my feet would tremble in my sandals. 
   We have to understand that there are two parts to this war, the ability to conduct war and the will to do so. And we don't conduct wars here in the United States any longer looking at that as two different things we need to assault. We are trying to fight a nicy-nice war with limited targets and rules of engagement that keep our military from doing the job that they could do. 
   There isn't a strategy to destroy the enemy's will to conduct war. It is just a strategy to destroy the enemy's ability, I should say limit their ability, try to shrink down the arms and funding they have coming in, and try to limit the transportation routes of the insurgents as they infiltrate into Iraq. 
   That is not enough, Mr. Speaker, but at least we are in a position where we can go forward and win this war if the will of the President and the will of our military can overcome the encouraged and supported will of our enemy, which has been encouraged and supported by many, many voices here on the floor of this Congress. 
   Mr. Speaker, I point out also the legacy of Korea and Vietnam. That legacy has already been reflected by one of the leaders of our enemy within Iraq, and this is Muqtada al-Sadr. He is the leader of the Madi militia, and he has been  a thorn in the side of the United States for a long time. I identified him as somebody that had to go a long time ago, at least as far back as early 2004. 
   I have to say in memory of Charlie Norwood, this man needs a dentist, and wherever he is going to go, Charlie is going to have no chance at him. 
   But this individual, Muqtada al-Sadr, said over Al-Jazeera TV on the evening of June 11, 2004--I was in Kuwait City waiting to go into Iraq the next day--Sadr came on Al-Jazeera TV and said in Arabic, with the English crawler underneath, he said, ``If we keep attacking Americans, they will leave Iraq the same way they left Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left Mogadishu.'' Muqtada al-Sadr, June 11, 2004, and that was Al-Jazeera TV. 
   That voice out of that man. And when I heard that, I concluded, he has read General Giap's book. He understands maybe not what happened in Korea, but he understands what happened in Vietnam. He understands that he has got to continue to fight, to break the will of the American people here, here in the United States of America, Mr. Speaker, because the last battle in this war, if the United States doesn't ultimately prevail, will be fought right on this blue carpet, right in this place right here. It won't be fought over there in Iraq, it won't be fought in the Middle East anywhere. It is here. 
   Here is where our vulnerability is, Mr. Speaker. Here is where the battle needs to be fought, and here is where the battle needs to be won, for our posterity and for the liberty and freedom we have been passed from our Founding Fathers. Sadr knows it. 
   I will submit this, Mr. Speaker: If we don't prevail in Iraq, and I believe that tactically we have every opportunity to do that, if we don't prevail in Iraq and Jack Murtha gets his way and troops come out of Iraq before there is a clear victory, then this man comes back into power. He is probably done talking about how to get Americans to leave Iraq. 
   But I can tell you Osama bin Laden will surface, or Zawahri will surface, and I will bring their picture down here to the floor, Mr. Speaker, and I will make a statement then. But I make the prediction now, you will see a picture of either Osama bin Laden or Zawahri or whoever the leader of al Qaeda is, and underneath it I will put the quote from them which will go something like 
   this: If we keep attacking Americans, they will leave Afghanistan the same way they left Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left Mogadishu, the same way they left Iraq. 
   And every time we lose our resolve and the legacy becomes the legacy that has been stipulated to us by Muqtada al-Sadr, it gets harder and harder to win the next war, harder and harder to have the will to conduct war, harder and harder to destroy their will, when they know that there is a legacy of us losing our will, us losing our nerve, a legacy of Members of Congress demonstrating a lack of spine, a lack of understanding of history, a lack of commitment to the legacy that has been handed to them and handed to all of us by our founders, Mr. Speaker. 
   So, I would reiterate, nosce hostem, know thy enemy. War, according Clausewitz, the object of war is to destroy the enemy's will and ability to conduct war. No one can destroy our ability, but we don't have the will to match our ability. And that was proven here today, Mr. Speaker. 
   And one of the members of the Democrat party said, and I applaud him for saying so, it does our military no good for the people on our side to sit in the corner and boo when they have been ordered into battle. We need to be on their side. 
   Who would go into the bleachers and boo their home team and think somehow the home team was going to perform better? Who would believe, when you hear the voices that came out of here for the last 4 days, Mr. Speaker, or I go back to the presidential campaign as it went through for 2004, where we heard continually ``wrong war, wrong place, wrong time.'' All we heard from another Senator in Massachusetts, it was all a war cooked up by oil people in Texas. 
   Voice after voice after voice of quasi-leaders of the United States have spoken, and it has undermined our troops and it has weakened their resolve, and it has empowered and emboldened our enemies. And when they are sitting in a hovel in Iraq making an IED and watching their Al-Jazeera TV, Mr. Speaker, and they hear the voices that came out from C-SPAN from the floor of this Congress, do you think that they make more bombs or less? Do you think they have more or less courage to plant them, more or less courage to attack Americans, more or less resolve to continue the fight, more or less perseverance because of the voices that came collectively from this side of the aisle and this Congress, Mr. Speaker? 
   We all know the answer to that. The answer is they have more resolve, more persistence; they will make more bombs, they will attack more Americans, and more Americans will die because the booing from this section has encouraged our enemy, and I got to bury some of those soldiers in my district, as do most of us. And that breaks my heart, because I understand it doesn't have to be. It doesn't have to be, Mr. Speaker. It didn't have to be and it doesn't have to be. And others will say, but it is. It is the price of a democratic system and a democratic process. And they say it is patriotic to speak about our disagreements. 
   So, if one yells fire in a crowded theater and 50 people are trampled to death on the way out and there was no fire, did they abuse their freedom of speech? And don't we know that there is a Supreme Court decision that says your freedom of speech doesn't extend to the right to yell fire in a crowded theater? Verbatim and specifically the answer to that, Mr. Speaker, is yes. 
   So how can we give a pass to people whose words cost more lives? And beyond the lives, people's whose words alter our national destiny and make us poorer for it and diminish our potential and affect our future and burden our children and put them at risk, Mr. Speaker? I can't tolerate that. 
   As I travel over to the Middle East and settle in and talk to the soldiers there on the ground, and I like to do that more than anything else over there, Mr. Speaker. I will walk into a room, maybe a mess hall, climb aboard a C-130. I will say, anybody over here from Iowa? There have been a couple of times there hasn't been. Most of the time there is somebody there from Iowa. 
   I will sit down, and it is our immediate bond, and I will ask them what is going on here on the ground? What do I need to know? What do you want me to know? And please rest assured I will not identify you or take that information to your officers. This is something for me, because it is my duty to do this kind of oversight. 
   And I hear continually, I am proud to fight for freedom, I am proud to serve my country, Congressman, but why do we have to fight the United States news media too? Why is there a conflicting message coming out of Congress? Why do we have to take on that part of this battle? We are fighting the enemy over here. We need to know that Congress is behind us.     
   One of the lieutenant colonels that I travelled over there with made a statement to me in one of those late evenings as we were talking this over deeply and profoundly. I will not use his name either because I have not asked him that I could do so, but I will use the quote. 
   And he said, Do not save me, pacifists; do not save me. I volunteered for this. I want to be over here fighting for freedom and liberty because I know the world will be a safer place. I want to take this battle on for my children so they do not have to live in fear and they do not have to carry on this fight. 
   They are all volunteers, and they say do not save me. I will take my chances. I volunteered for this war. I want to save my children from this burden. 
   Who are we? Who are we to micromanage a war and try to pull our troops out after all that blood and treasure has been invested in freeing Iraq and giving them an opportunity for freedom? Who are we? 
   I had gold star parents, Mr. Speaker, come into my office a week before I last went to the Middle East. So this would have been the third week in November, and several families had lost a son or a daughter in combat over in Iraq or Afghanistan. 
   We had a lot of profound discussions in there, and I listened to them. They  had travelled over to Iraq themselves and taken on the risk to go there. They had met with Iraqis. They had been welcomed into the homes of the Iraqis, and the Iraqi people showered them with gratitude for the measure of freedom they have today, even with the insecurities that are part of that, the gratitude for the sacrifice that Americans have given, their lives for Iraqi freedom and American safety and world safety. 
   And of all the things that were said, one that struck me the most, Mr. Speaker, was a father who had lost his son from California. His name is John. I have forgotten his last name, if I actually ever heard it, and he said, It is different now. You cannot pull out of Iraq. Our sons died there. They gave their lives for the freedom of the Iraqi people, and we are going to have more safety in America because of it? You cannot pull out of there. It is different. That soil is sanctified with the blood of our children. 
   Mr. Speaker, I challenge anyone to look that man or a father in the eye and say I think I know better, I think we ought to concede, I think we ought to admit and pull out and declare defeat like somebody said this war cannot be won, cannot be won, cannot be won. If I put a word search on there, ``cannot be won'' over and over again, hundreds of times it got said here in the last 4 to 5 days. 
   Mr. Speaker, I point out that Iraq, 80 percent of the violence is confined within 30 miles of Baghdad. You just look at the area that is there, Baghdad standing kind of alone in the middle. I checked this all out in the World Factbook just because that is where we go for information. Baghdad represents 1/2500th of the land area of Iraq, and we are saying we cannot prevail because 1/2500th of the land area has some people in there that are battling us? 1/2500th, one day of the life of SAM JOHNSON when he was in the Hanoi Hilton, one out of his 25 days, 1/2500th of the land area of Iraq, and we want to say we do not have the will. Every ability in the world, but we want to say we do not have the will to persevere, even though that soil is sanctified with the blood of our sons and daughters. 
   It will be a disgrace here on the floor of this Congress, Mr. Speaker, and I would be happy to yield to the gentleman from Idaho (Mr. Sali) who I am sure came down here with his heart full and look forward to whatever he might have to say. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Idaho, and I appreciate him coming down here and adding to this dialogue. 
   I had a chance to collect my thoughts a little bit during that, too, and a number of points that I did not make here. 
   First, I would like to say the argument is it is a civil war and we should not be involved in a civil war. We have been involved in a number of civil wars, and we will be involved in more civil wars. The same people who say we cannot be involved in a civil war say go into Darfur. Well, that is a civil war. 
   The same people said we should have gone to Rwanda. I am one of them that thought we should have gone to Rwanda. It was horrible. We could have done something about it, but it was a civil war. 
   And that list goes on and on, but let me define a civil war so it is a little more clear, Mr. Speaker, to the people that care, and that is, that you will be able to identify a civil war in Iraq when you see the Iraqi military and the Iraqi police force line up and choose up sides and decide they are going to start shooting at each other. They are not doing that. They are keeping order all that they can. They march forward in uniform. They stay together, and that is one thing that says it is not a civil war. 
   Another one seems to me to be the most obvious and that has not been brought up here, and that is, I know of no entity of the five to eight competing factions within Baghdad that is trying to unseat the elected government of Iraq. It is accepted. The people went to the polls and voted in greater numbers percentage-wise than we do here in the United States, and they elected their leaders. They ratified their Constitution. They elected their leaders, seated their prime minister. 
   So Iraq is a country that is a sovereign country. No one is trying to unseat the government. It is not a civil war. Yes, there is sectarian strife, but it is not so much to do with religion as it is so much the power vacuum that is going on. It is not a civil war. 
   We cannot constitutionally micromanage a war. The precedents for that are utterly weak throughout history, even though there was some struggle with that a number of times. But the precedent that remains was here in 1973, after Richard Nixon finished the Vietnamization process, moved our troops out of Vietnam, then a wounded President during the Watergate era was forced into a situation where this Congress shut off all funds from going to Vietnam, and that was on the land of Vietnam, in the skies over Vietnam and the seas offshore Vietnam. 
   The bill, and I just looked at it again yesterday and I read it a number of times, the bill said none of these funds or any funds heretofore appropriated shall be used on Vietnam, over Vietnam or offshore in Vietnam, which kept all of our military from supporting the South Vietnamese Army which was defending itself after the Treaty of Paris and the resolution of that issue. 
   Now the North Vietnamese broke the treaty. The South Vietnamese did not have support. They did not have munitions, which we promised them. They did not have air cover, which we promised them. We could not even do a naval bombardment to support them from the seas because this Congress jerked the rug out from underneath that. And the disgrace lies yet in our history books. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IRAQ AND THE MIDDLE EAST -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, as I said a number of times in the past, it remains a tremendous honor to step here on the floor of the United States House of Representatives and address you about how this dialogue that we have across America is a great big national conversation, 300 million people, many of them talking about the very subject matter that my colleagues in the previous hour have discussed, and that being the issue of the global war on terror. 
   Particularly, because of the hearing today, the joint hearing between the Armed Services Committee, and it used to be the International Relations Committee, and now it's the Foreign Affairs Committee, many of our colleagues in the room of the 435 Members of Congress, over 100 in the room and many others were watching television in offices and in gatherings around this Hill. There was a national conversation going on and taking place here. 
   As we move forward with our discussion, one of the things that happens is, as talking members of the 300 million people of America carry on their conversation, a consensus forms. As a consensus forms, it works that the constituents across the country call up and write letters and send e-mails to and stop in and see their Members of Congress and their staff. 
   As that goes on, if the American people are informed, if they are informed honestly and objectively, if they can get there, they can get their eyes and their hands and their ears on the facts, the American people often come to an appropriate and proper conclusion. 
   But it happens to be a fact that nearly every week that we have been in session in this 110th Congress, now into September, having gaveled in here in January, nearly every week, there has been at least one bill on the floor, that was a bill, I believe, sought to undermine our efforts in this global war on terror. 
   Except for last week, there wasn't one. Yet, the commitment that was made on the part of the request to Congress, and on the part of our military and the President, was to deliver a report here to Congress by September 15, on or before September 15, that would be an objective update on the operations in Iraq, which I will stipulate again is the most centralized, the most contested battleground in this global war on terror. 
   We all knew this report was coming, and today we received that report. That report was delivered here to Congress in written form and verbally by General Petraeus and by Ambassador Ryan Crocker. 
   Well, it's interesting that when the date of this report became something that was published and people were aware of, that's when the debate began. 
   We started to see an intensity of the different amendments and the resolutions that came before Congress. There are no resolution to unfund the war and call our troops home, but resolutions to try to do that without having to admit that that was the effort. As each one of those resolutions came up, by my view, each one of them one way or another failed with the American people. The argument was continuing. The debate was continuing. 
   The people that were invested in, let me say, cut-and-run policy and tactics in Iraq, those people thought that they were going to win this argument with the American people, before General Petraeus brought his report before Congress. That's why those resolutions came to this floor every week, in my view, and that's why the media was delivered, message after message, that there was a failed effort in Iraq. 
   That's also why I and many of my colleagues went to Iraq during that period of time. I made my fifth trip over there on the last weekend of July with a number of my colleagues in codel Burgess. On that fifth trip, it's hard to say, even when you go back to the same place, what was different. Because you will see sometimes different people, and you get a bit different report. 
   But one thing you do is get briefings, internal briefings, classified briefings, from our top officers that we have and compare the information that comes from General Petraeus and General Odierno and Ambassador Crocker and Admiral Fallon. Those people that are at the front of this that are in the lead that are calling the shots from the highest levels, all the way down through the ranks, when you walk into a mess hall and simply say is there anyone here from Iowa, pretty soon you have a table full, know their hometowns and know some of the people that they are related to and know that there is an instant contact there. We compare notes Iowan-to-Iowan and then compare those notes with the briefings that we receive from our top officers. 
   Close the door and have an intense, classified discussion with General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker, then come back here to this Congress and listen to the debate and watch the effort here on the other side of the aisle, the effort that I believe was invested in defeat. I will say even a significant number are still invested in defeat. 
   But, yet, they thought they could win the debate and convince the American people that the cause was lost in Iraq. They thought they could win the debate before General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker delivered their report to this Congress that it would be a moot point. Whatever it was that General Petraeus might offer today, they wanted to have the American people convinced. A majority number of Members of Congress were convinced that it was a lost and failed effort in Iraq. 
   Well, enough information came out from that part of the world; enough Members went over and saw for themselves. Enough Members like myself went into al Anbar province that, according to General Petraeus today, was politically lost a year ago. It was a hopeless case a year ago. 
   As I was there the last of July, every single tribal area in al Anbar province, and I would remind the body, that that is one-third, Anbar province is one third of the geographical area of Iraq. It represented over half the deaths and violence of Iraq. It was the center of al Qaeda in Iraq. Ramadi was the center of death for the country. 
   Still, every single tribal area in the entire province of that one-third of Iraq was, a year ago, controlled by al Qaeda. Hamas was preaching an anti-U.S., anti-coalition, anti-Iraqi defense force message. 
   But as I match the maps, as the tribal zones change and the sheikhs, the tribal leaders, got together, the they made a commitment to come together to kill al Qaeda with coalition forces and with Iraqi defense forces. Every single tribal zone, every sheikh in all of al Anbar province came over to the coalition side, to the side of freedom, and to the side of a free Iraqi people. 
   When that happened, there was a dramatic sea change in al Anbar province. If you looked at the map of the tribal zones, it was already a year ago painted red because that was al Qaeda. Today, every tribal zone in al Anbar province is green, meaning they are on our side now, they are with us. They said they want to come kill al Qaeda with us. That was their message. 
   When you see that kind of briefing, and you hear the briefing that came from General Petraeus today, but some of this information came out piece by piece, week by week, as there was an effort to undermine our effort in Iraq, came to a head today. Those who were invested in defeat had to make a case today that there was something weak about this military effort, something weak about the security effort, that there was something disingenuous about the delivery, about the report that was delivered today. 
   What I saw today was truly two highly intelligent people with worlds of experience in the Middle East, Ambassador Crocker and General Petraeus. 
   As I saw them with their delivery and their presentation and the facts that they laid out carefully, completely, objectively, with caution about those parts that aren't going so well, brought out before we heard the good news about the parts that are going well, this was a stellar report that the American people can take to the bank. We don't have all the problems solved in Iraq. There is a ways to go, and maybe a long ways to go. It's not going to be easy, but it looks far better today than the news media has characterized it to be. 
   So there is much to be said about this momentous day today, this watershed day today, the records that were accumulated from General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker. As I watched my colleagues listen to that delivery and ask their questions and probe, I can only reflect that the people that came out of this thing with their integrity intact were the ones delivering the report. The ones who were their critics were silenced in the end. That's the conclusion that I think an objective media will be reporting tomorrow. 
   But at this point, I recognize the gentleman from Tennessee, Mr. Zach Wamp. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IRAQ AND THE MIDDLE EAST -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Tennessee for his delivery. And I reflect that General Petraeus' last part of his prepared testimony said, in closing, it remains an enormous privilege to soldier again in Iraq with America's new Greatest Generation. Our country's men and women in uniform have done a magnificent job in the most complex and challenging environment imaginable. All Americans should be very proud of their sons and daughters serving in Iraq today. 
   He also said that he believes that this is perhaps the most professional military to ever take to the field. And I recall a discussion that we had in Baghdad just about 5 or 6 weeks ago, and the statement was made that this is not only the most professional but the best military that's ever been put into the field, that's ever gone to war. 
   And one of the remarks they made, in addition to well-trained and brave and dedicated and well-equipped and patriotic and all of those adjectives that we use, one of the other ones was and the most perceptive. The most perceptive. 
   And that caught me off guard, Mr. Speaker. I didn't expect that. But I understood what that meant; to have the perception to know the difference on when to shoot and when not to shoot, when to be the ambassador and when to be the soldier. That's one of the hardest things, and sometimes a decision has to be made in a split second. And that's what they meant by the  most perceptive military to be sent off to war. 
   And again, much was said today, much will be said about today. But at this point, I'd be happy to yield as much time as he may consume to the chairman of the Policy Committee from Michigan, Mr. Thaddeus McCotter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IRAQ AND THE MIDDLE EAST -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Michigan, the chairman of the Policy Committee, for the insights he has shared with us tonight. 
   And we get those insights on a fairly regular basis here, and it is quite interesting to track the intellect of Mr. McCotter and causes me to reflect upon the constitutional limitations that this Congress has, Mr. Speaker. And in spite of the bill after bill, resolution after resolution, and policy piece after policy piece that have been brought forward here by almost an average of one a week the entire 110th Congress, there are only just a few things that we have the constitutional authority to do when it comes to war, Mr. Speaker. And the first thing that Congress can do is raise an army and a navy, and that is constitutional, and by implication, an air force. It's clearly a constitutional responsibility of the Congress. And the second thing we can do is we can declare war, and that is constitutional responsibility also that is clearly defined in our Constitution. And the third thing we can do is fund the war. 
   But there is no provision in this Constitution for micromanaging the war. That goes outside the bounds of our constitutional authority. The management of the war and, in fact, the micromanagement of the war lies within the authority, the constitutionally invested authority, of the Commander in Chief. That is why that is drafted in the Constitution in that fashion. It gives the authority to the Commander in Chief because our Founders went through a difficult Revolutionary War period. They were the Continental Congress. They were essentially a confederacy that had gathered together because of a common cause. And the Continental Congress raised the Continental Army, and the Continental Army was an army that was driven by consensus. And they understood the difficulties in fighting a war if you had  to reach a consensus before you could move forward and make a decision. 
   They knew you had to have a Commander in Chief, a Commander in Chief who could evaluate all the information, gather his officers around him, gather the information, and then make a definitive directive to be able to give an order to take bold action with intelligence, with military action, both offensively and defensively. They understood that. They learned some bitter lessons during the Revolutionary War. You can't fight a war by consensus. You have got to have a Commander in Chief at the top. That's why the Constitution is drafted in the fashion it is, and that's why the Constitution prohibits us from micromanaging a war. 
   And yet the effort continues, an effort by this Congress, to micromanage this war that's going on. I recall the Speaker and the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee sitting over there in Syria negotiating with a person whom we have declared to be a state sponsor of terrorism, and the chairman of that committee announced we have a new Democrat foreign policy. Well, I would like to think that when you pledge an oath to uphold this Constitution, you also are obligated to read it and understand it. And in that are the limitations that say to us, Congress, you can raise an army and a navy and by implication an air force and you can declare war and you can fund them, but you can't micromanage that war and you can't conduct foreign policy. Both of those things are forbidden by the Constitution. They are vested in the Commander in Chief, our chief executive officer, because we have got to speak with one voice and we have got to fight with one effort. It can't be a divided effort, and it can't be an effort to undermine our military. 
   I would be happy to yield to the fast-thinking, slow-talking gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Gingrey). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IRAQ AND THE MIDDLE EAST -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from New Mexico, a veteran and a C-130 pilot himself, and now a passenger in C-130s over in Iraq, year to year picking up firsthand information, veterans, active-duty personnel, just this last weekend. That's the level of involvement that you see here on the part of a lot of Members of the United States Congress, Mr. Speaker. 
   One of those other individuals who has had a high level of involvement is an individual who led codel Burgess in the last weekend of July over to Iraq, a number of stops, Bayji, Balad, Baghdad and Ramadi, those places come to mind. And I very much appreciate the leadership and the initiative it took to put that together and to lead that trip over there. 
   I would be happy to yield all but the last 3 or 4 minutes to the gentleman from Texas, Dr. Burgess. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IRAQ AND THE MIDDLE EAST -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Texas. Again, I thank him for leading a codel over there. That was one of the most meaningful that I have been on. I picked up a lot in watching the observations of my colleagues and listening to their questions, as well. It is fresh information and helped fill in a lot of the blanks we might have had going into this hearing that we had today. 
   I would, again, be happy to recognize the chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee, Mr. Thaddeus McCotter, for the balance of the time this evening. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IRAQ AND THE MIDDLE EAST -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Michigan. He poses a question that is a difficult one for those who want to withdraw from this operation, the simple cut-and-run version, to answer. It is left for those to answer, Mr. Speaker. 
   I would point out also that yesterday I did a memorial dedication at Charter Oak, Iowa, for all of the military personnel that have come from that area since the beginning of the conflicts, since that area was settled. It starts with the Mexican-American War, goes to the Civil War and on up to today.  They placed out in the field there by the memorial 4,200 flags representing the lives of the Americans that have been sacrificed in this global war on terror in this quest for freedom. It also represents 50 million people that live free today that didn't at the beginning of this global war on terror. 
   I looked back at the dedication and the sacrifice of all of them, and I added to that dedication another sacrifice, a sacrifice that we hear very little of, and that is those over-5,000 Americans who gave their lives during a time of peace during the period between Desert Storm and the beginning of this global war on terror, 510 a year, Mr. Speaker. 
   I thank you for being recognized. I thank all the speakers here tonight that have spoken up for freedom. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (COLOMBIA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from California for yielding, and I thank him especially for gathering us together here for this Special Order. 
   Being mindful of the clock, there are a few points I would like to make. And one of them is to address our trade deficit. We have had a trade deficit over the last several years that has grown an average of about 20 percent a year. Now, it's flattened out in this last year because the weaker dollar has shifted so that we have more exports in proportion. However, I believe the dollar needs to be shored up. And why would a nation that has a trade deficit refuse to allow a trade agreement that would open up a country to allow our goods to go in? 
   I'm astonished continually at the continuing shift on the part of the Democrats. And I looked through the trade agreements that we have dealt with here since I have been in this Congress, and I'm thinking of trade agreements like Singapore and Chile and Australia and Morocco, the Central American Free Trade Agreement, DR-CAFTA. All of those gave us opportunities that were advantageous to us. And the logic in this is just as clear and simple: If you market something or if you're doing business with people, where you buy it from is where the jobs are. That's where the production is. We have production in the United States. We need to market more goods overseas. If we shore up the dollar, and I think we should, we're going to need to be more aggressive marketing our goods overseas. Colombia's sitting there waiting to open that up. 
   I have to say a couple kind words about our pork producers. They sold $8.5 million worth of pork into Colombia last year, not a lot. They're losing money on 
   every head today. They need to open up this market. It would be in multiples if we would simply allow that tariff that's in Colombia to disappear, which would happen immediately if we could sign into this free trade agreement. That's some of the components. 
   But I am also more concerned about our relationships in the Western hemisphere. And as we watch Hugo Chavez teaming up and picking up the legacy of Fidel Castro and watching the unrest that's being promoted or watching tanks roll up to the border, these things are taking place in our hemisphere. And this Monroe Doctrine, I think, calls upon us to be good diplomats, good stewards of the money, and good promoters of trade, taking care of American jobs and protecting our opportunity to compete in the rest of the world. All of this comes together in this Colombia Free Trade Agreement. 
   What happened here in this Congress was a shameful act. And Americans have to be viewed as having character, the kind of character that holds up when a business deal is a deal. We did more than shake hands on this. This Congress passed it. The President signed it. This agreement was negotiated under terms that said this trade agreement will come to the floor of this House and it will be brought forward for a vote, up or down, in 90 days. That's the deal. That's the deal it was negotiated under. That's the deal that it should have been brought to the floor of this House under. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (COLOMBIA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. If we took that position with every country on the globe, you could virtually guarantee our economy would collapse, not get stronger. We need to make every move that we can make to improve this economy. I'm really not as concerned as the pundits are, but it's prudent for us to open trade. Free trade, fair trade smart trade is a better code word for this, and it means jobs in America. The U.S. market is open to Colombia. They're saying, let's open our market to you. I'm happy to send Caterpillars down there. We buy them in my business. And I'm happy to send the pork down there that we produce and everything that we can compete with. This global market that we're involved in demands that we export, and the Western hemisphere demands that we lead. And that means we need to promote strong, strong relationships in the Western hemisphere. And as we watch the bullying tactics of Hugo Chavez, I think that cries out for us to shake hands with President Uribe and complete this Colombia Free Trade Agreement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RELIGIOUS WORKER VISA EXTENSION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I rise to address the legislation as so eloquently laid out by the chairman of the full Judiciary Committee. And, first, I would like to remark that I appreciate the cooperation in the negotiations that have taken place between Ranking Member Smith and the chairman of the Immigration Subcommittee, Ms. Zoe Lofgren, as well as Chairman Conyers. And this is the right spirit to deal with a religious visas extension type of a bill, and the timing of this is perfect as well for it to be the very week that Pope Benedict XVI is arriving tomorrow morning here in Washington, DC, and I think a lot of our activity will be suspended while we commemorate the glorious day. 
   I have looked at a number of the statistics throughout this, and I have some reservations about what has transpired with the religious worker visas over the last several years, and I expect to take up some of those issues a little bit later in the debate. 
   But as the gentleman who is more eloquent in laying out this entire case is to my right, I would be very happy to yield 3 minutes to the ranking member of the full Judiciary Committee, the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Smith). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RELIGIOUS WORKER VISA EXTENSION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Madam Speaker, I want to make sure that I am on record here as supporting religious worker visas. And one of the things that was well publicized during the Reagan administration was our ability to exchange students and business relationships and all parts of our culture with the rest of our world and bring people into the United States to get a feel and for us to learn from them and for them to learn from us. And I very much support that approach, and it has been important from the standpoint of promoting peace throughout the world. 
   I find that whenever you get to know people, you find out that people are human everywhere with the same values, the same interests and the same ideals at our core. We have different religions sometimes, we have different economics, different clothing, different food, different building structures and different climates. That all comes together as components of who we are as nations and nationalities. But inside of us, we are all one people. And that is my belief, and it is my profound commitment to continue to support the religious workers' visa. 
   Now I get to the ``or what?'' And that is that I have seen a significant amount of fraud in these applications. And I want to point out that where we will be welcoming Pope Benedict XVI here in Washington, D.C., and as I look through the statistics on the Catholic religious workers' visas, the fraud rate is very, very low as a proportion to the overall applications. So there is no implication in my remarks with regard to Catholics in particular, and many other denominations from that standpoint. 
   But the special immigrant religious worker visa program was created in 1990 and has been a magnet for people not only to come and share their faith with us, but also a magnet for people to be able to utilize the program in the system that it wasn't intended for. 
   The State Department's Bureau of Consular Affairs in September 2005 in their Fraud Digest reported that ``religious worker visas are known as some of the most difficult to adjudicate.'' The Fraud Digest then goes on to discuss various cases in which people were prosecuted for fraudulent use of the program. So, for instance, in 2004 a Venezuelan national was convicted in Virginia of visa fraud. He had filed 179 fraudulent petitions for religious ministers. In addition to creating fraudulent certificates of ordination, diplomas and other supporting documentation, he also obtained a valid 501(c)(3) tax exemption from recognized religious organizations without their knowledge. 
   The Immigration Subcommittee has long been aware of fraud in their religious worker visa program. In 1997, a GAO investigation was requested by our subcommittee. The State Department conducted a field inquiry. They did that to get the views of consular offices as to the level and type of fraud. And in 41 percent of the 83 responding posts, some type of fraud or abuse was acknowledged. And the State Department also noted that under the program's regulations, almost anyone involved with a church, aside from the explicitly excluded occupations of cleaning, maintenance and support staff, arguably could be qualified as a religious worker. So this was an open door. And I recognize the chairlady of the subcommittee acknowledged that we need to tighten that up a bit. And that, I think, is the biggest reason why, in that particular quote from that report. 
   In 1999, the GAO released a final report. The agency noted that the types of fraud often encountered in the processing of religious worker visas ``involved petitioners making false statements about the length of time that the applicant was a member of the religious organization and the nature of the qualifying work experience.'' 
   The report went on to say that evidence uncovered at that time by INS agents suggested that ``some of these organizations exist solely as a means to carry out immigration fraud.'' That is what we should be guarding against. That is what we hope to be able to do with their new regulations that will be written as a result of the bill. 
   At his motion, I would be happy to yield to the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Conyers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RELIGIOUS WORKER VISA EXTENSION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the chairman for his levity in this debate and I reclaim my time.     
   Madam Speaker, most recently, in July of 2006, the U.S. Citizenship and  Immigration Services Office of Fraud Detection and National Security conducted a fraud benefit assessment on the Religious Worker Visa program. They selected 220 cases at random and found an astounding 33 percent fraud rate. That means one out of three was fraudulent. That is their finding. 
   In 32 of the fraudulent cases, the religious institution either did not exist or only existed on paper, and 39 of their fraudulent petitions included fraudulent supporting documentation or material misrepresentations within a document. Other instances of fraud included cases where the petitioner could not be located or connected to any religious entity and where the petitioning religious entity was unaware that the petition had even been filed and was unaware of the beneficiary. 
   Now that this Nation is involved in a global war on terror, we must be extremely vigilant, Madam Speaker. We must protect the safety and welfare of American citizens. We can't do that with an immigration policy that includes programs ripe with fraud. 
   Another example would be in 2003 Mohammed Khalil and three of his sons were arrested in connection with submitting false applications to bring over 200 individuals to the United States using the Religious Worker Visa program. Prosecutors revealed that Khalil made statements to an undercover witness professing allegiance to Osama bin Laden. He also allegedly stated, ``Hopefully another attack in the United States will come shortly.'' These are the kind of people that we don't need in this program. We must be ever vigilant. 
   This program needed some improvements before it was ready for reauthorization. Historically it has been reauthorized as a 5-year reauthorization. The initial proposal was to reauthorize it to make the program permanent. I appreciate the negotiations that have taken it down to a 7-year reauthorization. I would have preferred it be substantially less. 
   However, information that has been made available to me after such time as we took action on the bill in the Judiciary Committee gives me some hope that USCIS, the U.S. Citizenship Immigration Services, has already taken some steps that likely would have reduced the percentage and certainly reduced the number of fraud cases. 
   As I look at the verbal report from Director Emilio Gonzalez, the 2005 Religious Worker Visa applications were something slightly above 4,000 out of the 5,000 cap that is in the authorization. That was 2005. So that would be the year by which we have seen the highest percentage of fraud in the reports that I have seen, Madam Speaker. 
   In 2006, the applications, by the report language that I received, is 3,048. So we have seen these numbers going down, presumably because of the increased scrutiny on the Religious Worker Visa applications. Then by 2007 we only saw, and this is by a verbal report from the director, 454 Religious Worker Visa applications. That is a dramatic 80-some percent reduction in the number of visa applications. I think it is safe to conclude that a significant amount of this, Madam Speaker, is the result of increased scrutiny on the part of USCIS. 
   We need to be taking a particular look still, and I intend to sit down with Director Gonzalez and talk this through so I can get a full understanding of the decisions they made, the timing of their decisions and how that might have affected the Religious Worker Visa applications. 
   But as I look through their report, I see a couple or three places that we should be looking. One is the special registrant countries. These are the countries that required extra scrutiny post-September 11th, and we know which countries those are. They are listed in the report. That happens to be the source of, depending how you want to evaluate the information, those countries that made those self-attested reports show that either 70 percent, 73 percent or 80 percent were fraudulent in the special registrant countries category. 
   Then the non-affiliated groups, the groups that are not affiliated with a religious denomination, showed 63 percent fraud. That is worthy also of significant scrutiny, and I am hopeful that this has been addressed. And those numbers I believe also are shrinking. Then I looked at, for example, the countries of origin. There was one county that had 100 percent fraud of the report that was issued. That was Jamaica. 
   So these are things that I think are red flags. I intend to sit down and have this conversation with Director Gonzalez and get a better feel for it. But that is the statistics we are dealing with today as this bill to reauthorize and extend for 7 years Religious Worker Visas is before this Congress. 
   Then I would submit also that there is something that is actually missing in our policy. A nation that should be a nation that believes in free trade and smart trade also should believe in free and smart trade of our religious workers. I believe that we should have reciprocity. For us to welcome religious workers from countries that will disallow American religious workers from going to their countries and particular religions that come from America to go to those countries, I think is a great big gap in our oversight. 
   Recognizing the time of this legislation and the inability to offer an amendment in a closed rule, I have drafted a bill, and I have that bill with me today and I won't be able to introduce it unless there is a request for unanimous consent, and I don't intend to do that, but this bill is the Religious Worker Reciprocity Act of 2006. 
   What it does, it just extends reciprocal immigration treatment to nationals of the United States who are seeking resident status in order to work in religious vocation of other countries. In other words, it would simply say you send your religious workers here, we want to be able to send our religious workers there. I think that is the intent. And I would ask for support of that across the bipartisan effort, and particularly those that have taken particular interest in this issue. But I will be introducing that legislation in a subsequent day. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RELIGIOUS WORKER VISA EXTENSION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Okay, I didn't hear that. And I certainly don't reserve nor do I object to that e-mail from USCIS being introduced into the Record. In fact, I would like to read it into the Record. 
   It says, ``The religious worker BFA non-immigrant had a 32.73 percent fraud rate out of a sample of 220 cases. The public version of the BFA did not further break down the 220 cases into religious categories. The fraud rate for Muslim organization has been spoken of many times on the Hill for some time. The reality is that because the population sample for Muslim groups in the BFA is so small, the rate of fraud is statistically insignificant. I am still waiting on the site check data.'' 
   I believe that is the e-mail referenced by the gentlewoman from California, and I reference it here to speak to the data that is in the report rather than a comment about the data that is in the report. 
   These 220 cases were drawn to give indicators for further scrutiny. When you see a 70, 73 or 80 percent fraud rate, there is an obligation to look into that and verify the sources of that fraud and also the indicators that it might be greater, not less. I don't imply it is, but we can draw just as much inference that it is greater than it is less from these statistics. 
   I pointed out that Jamaica has a 100 percent fraud rate out of the sample in this study. That doesn't mean there aren't other denominations we shouldn't be looking at. But I am looking at each one of these cases, and I referenced the special registrant countries that are part of that list. The special registrant counties would be, for the record, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Sudan, Libya, Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Yemen, Egypt and Pakistan. 
   For the record, when I referenced then the special registrant countries, those are the countries. This is the record. It is the data we are dealing with. I think that it is something that we need to pay special scrutiny to. But we should encourage the reciprocity and the exchange of religious workers. 
   Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RELIGIOUS WORKER VISA EXTENSION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I think this has been a very healthy debate. It has brought issues out into the Record that are going to be useful for us to reference. I pointed out that I do have data here that hasn't become part of the Record and I have withheld it for some reasons of discretion. 
   I look forward to reaching across the aisle and working with the Members across the aisle to look into those concentrated areas of fraud and work together to see if we can find a way to establish a policy of reciprocity for religious workers, and, at the same time, celebrate the great religions of the world and the exchange of those religions.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE FOR SECURE ELECTIONS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Michigan for yielding, and I appreciate the privilege to address you here on the floor of the House with regard to integrity in the ballot system. 
   I will say as a compliment to Mr. Holt, he and I have had a number of conversations about integrity in the electoral process. We share concern that the electoral process here in America have the highest level of integrity. I, for one, actually sat in my chair for all but a couple of 37 days following the election of the year 2000 watching television, scooting around and surfing the Internet, chasing down the rabbit trails. I was on the telephone. At the time I was the chairman of the Senate State Government Committee in Iowa, and I didn't want Iowa to become a Florida. 
   As I educated myself, it was a crash course in the electoral process. I found fraud in elections in a number of States, at least solid newspaper and journalistic reports of fraud, and I became convinced that it was scattered throughout this country. And the pattern is hard to follow, but the conclusion I drew was if this country ever loses its faith in our electoral system, this constitutional republic will collapse due to a lack of faith of the people. 
   So integrity in the electoral process is important. I would rather lose an election than lose the integrity of the electoral process. 
   I come to this floor today to oppose this bill, however, because this is Tax Day, 2008, election year 2008, and we are watching the Presidential debates unfold and soon we will hear the congressional debates light up. To try to jump on this horse in the middle of this fast current of stream that we have racing toward an election, I think is a bridge too far for us to be able to get there without further damaging the integrity, rather than improving it.     
   I would urge this House to step back, take a look, take a deep breath, and come together with some legislation that would provide, of course, for a paper audit trail, which I support, but one that does so in a reasoned fashion, not in the middle of an election year, not something that's designed to patch some of the flaws that came with the Help America Vote Act, but something that's well thought out, something that's bipartisan, something that's reasoned, something that's cautious, and something that will preserve the integrity of the electoral system that we have. And that's why I come to the floor, Mr. Speaker, for that purpose. 
   And I support the position taken by the ranking member from Michigan and my colleagues, although I intend to continue to work with Mr. Holt. Another point that I would make is that we do have a disagreement in our viewpoint, and that is that I think we should, at the very last resort, impose obligations on the States. The States have run this electoral process. The Federal Government has a minimal involvement. 
   And so my view is, if the States have integrity, we have to be very careful because the voters within the States will be determining the next leader in the free world. I think the number was just 527 votes in Florida made the difference on who the leader of the free world was in the year 2000. That integrity is important. We must hold it together. 
   But I urge a ``no'' vote on this bill at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Chair, I am offering this amendment to add language to section 1222 of the bill. This language will clarify that the prohibition on establishing permanent military bases in Iraq will not prevent the United States and Iraq from entering into military basing rights agreements for the establishment of temporary bases in Iraq. 
   After I offered a similar amendment in the fiscal year 2007 Defense appropriations bill in the last Congress, I wrote a letter to Chairman Pace, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and in that letter, I asked General Pace for his thoughts on the need for the U.S. to enter into and retain the ability to enter into military basing rights agreements in Iraq and with Iraq. In his response, General Pace stated that it is the intention of the United States military to ``work closely with Iraq's sovereign government to decide the terms and what foreign military forces and bases (if any) will remain in Iraq.'' 
   As this statement makes clear, we must ensure that the United States has the ability to work with the sovereign Government of Iraq to determine the kind of military support that will be necessary to ensure the stability and security of Iraq. My amendment will reaffirm that the United States' ability to exercise an important diplomatic responsibility in dealing with a new ally in the global war on terror. That ally is the Government of Iraq. 
   Historically, basing rights agreements have been a necessary part of diplomatic relations with foreign governments. These agreements outline guidelines and conditions for operating American military bases worldwide. It is both common and responsible for the United States to enter into basing rights agreements with countries hosting American troops. This is being done in every country hosting U.S. troops. The representative Government of Iraq should be no exception. In this way, my amendment ensures Iraq's sovereignty will be respected. 
   My amendment will simply highlight the fact that the prohibition on the establishment of permanent bases does not prohibit the United States from entering into a sensible diplomatic dialogue regarding the establishment of temporary military installations in Iraq. So, not to enter into these agreements would be to neglect the United States' diplomatic duties, and our security duties as well, with our partners. 
   One of the things that has poisoned this debate has been the use of the term ``permanent base.'' It is no secret that this is a loaded term. However, the BRAC process has clearly demonstrated that there is no such thing as a permanent U.S. military base. As a reflection of this, military basing rights agreements can be negotiated for any length of time and can be renegotiated at any point in time. 
   I am not proposing the terms and conditions for these discussions or agreements, nor am I proposing the installation of permanent bases in Iraq with this amendment. I am not interfering or engaging in that, I am simply clarifying the intent of Congress and the hope and the policy that the Pentagon has advocated through General Pace's letter. I am simply asking that we ensure the United States be allowed to pursue our historic necessary avenue of responsible foreign relations.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time. I thank the gentleman from California, especially for his leadership on our national defense issues in a lot of ways. And I would just clarify the simplicity of this amendment. 
   It simply states that the United States has not established any permanent military installations inside or outside the United States. And nothing in this act that is before us or any other provision of law shall be construed to prevent the Government of the United States from establishing temporary military installations or bases. 
   That is the essence of this amendment. It is a clarifying amendment, because we had confusion last year and a misunderstanding last year that required a scramble to go to the Pentagon, to get a response from General Pace, to go to the conference committee, and to come back with language that was acceptable that secured the people of the United States and also protected our military that are out in the field protecting us. That is the essence of this amendment. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Chair, I stand here and listen to this debate, and I am wondering what kind of message the Iraqi people are getting. I suspect they might have read this amendment. They might know that this amendment clearly says, and that is what is already in the record, that the United States has not established permanent military installations anywhere, and that nothing in this act or provision shall be construed to prevent us from establishing temporary military installations or bases in those agreements in the United States or Iraq or anywhere. 
   This amendment addresses temporary basing rights, not permanent basing rights. It is a clarification amendment, because we have had so much confusion and miscommunication. Now we have more confusion and miscommunication; and I would direct the attention, if I could, of the Members of this body back to the language that started this, which was the language that was amended out of the bill last year that says that none of the funds made available in this act may be used by the Government of the United States to enter into a basing rights agreement between the United States and Iraq.     
   That reference prohibited any basing rights agreement, temporary and permanent. We had to go to the Pentagon to get support, which the administration is the voice of, in order to clarify this language last year, this amendment's clarifying language this year. It's a simple thing. It says we can enter into temporary basing rights agreements wherever it's prudent for us to do so, not permanent basing rights agreement in Iraq or anywhere else. 
   Madam Chair, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Chair, first I'd say that perhaps I'm here endeavoring on the impossible dream, and that would be if we could just simply use this great communication skill that we all have and use it to communicate, so that we could exchange ideas and be able to agree when we agree and disagree when we disagree on the fundamental philosophy that's there, not because we came to the floor to disagree, because we don't. We're not advocating here for permanent bases. And  there's nothing in the language of this amendment that advocates for permanent bases. This is a clarification that says we're not going to foreclose our responsibility to be able to negotiate temporary bases in Iraq or anywhere else. We've never had our United States military anywhere in the world where we didn't have some kind of temporary basing rights agreement. We have never had a permanent basing rights agreement anywhere. And we have closed many bases across Germany and Europe. We've done that. We'll do so, and we're doing so in Iraq. We've happened over a number of different bases. The last number I heard was 33. It's probably many more than that into the hands of the Iraqis for their control. And so the message that needs to come from here, if we're concerned about the message that we're sending, we should stand up and say we agree. We don't intend to stay in Iraq permanently. We do agree that it'll require some temporary bases for us to carry out our operations there to protect our American troops that are there with the coalition and the Iraqi people. It's a prudent and a wise thing to do. Having a misunderstanding and a misconception is not a good thing to do. I think we agree on the policy. We should come together on the message. 
   Support this amendment, Madam Chair. And if we do that that will better, I believe, for the people in this country, for our military, for the Iraqi people. And as this unfolds, where the surge tactics are, they'll have the confidence that we stand with our military here in a prudent approach. 
   Madam Chair, I'd urge support for my amendment, and yield back the balance of my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. King). 
   The question was taken; and the Acting Chairman announced that the noes appeared to have it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE HIGH PRICE OF ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - June 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentlelady from Minnesota, and I appreciate the opportunity to speak and be recognized here on the floor, raising the issue of energy and gas costs. 
   I brought a poster which I will quickly show. This is where gas prices have gone, Mr. Speaker.     
   You know, we listen to an awful lot of criticism building up to the 2006 elections of the Bush administration and the Republican majority in Congress because of high gas prices, and here is where it ended. It was at $1.49 when President Bush was sworn into office, and it went to $2.33 the day Nancy Pelosi picked up the gavel. 
   She is the one that said that she was going to get us cheaper gas prices. The result of that is? You can see the graph, it shoots from $2.33 up to $4.08, $4.07, won't quibble over a penny, and going on up, with no plan to do anything except drive up the energy prices. 
   I am one of those that will say--and we have gotten a good look at that--but I am one of those that will say that everybody in this Congress doesn't want cheaper energy prices. Some people in this Congress want higher energy prices. 
   I think that goes all the way up to the leadership, and I can say that because I have watched these energy bills come to the floor. Every single thing that's affected the price of energy, at least that I can recall, drove the price up, not down, shut down and blocked the drilling and the access to energy across this country, across this continent. 
   When I came into this Congress, I was not convinced that anybody thought that gas prices ought to be higher. Then about 6, 7 months into the beginning of this 110th Congress, this Pelosi Congress, you finally convinced me. You convinced me that you want to see a higher gas price--because it doesn't seem logical that people in my district--and they are going to wonder about the rationale of it, but I have listened to the debate too long not to say it out loud, and it's this--that there are those in this Congress in significant numbers that believe that this planet is warming, and it's our fault. 
   If we can raise the cost of energy, people will use less of it, including gasoline. If they use less of it and ride their bicycle more, there will be fewer greenhouse emissions, and there will be less greenhouse gas go off into the atmosphere. If there is less going into the atmosphere, somehow they are going to save the planet. Well, there are a whole lot of things wrong with that equation, the worst of them is that the countries of and China and India, the emerging industrial nations are not going to back off on coal. 
   They are going to burn more coal, and they are building more generating plants. Whatever we do to slow down the coal or cut down on the emissions of our greenhouse gases is going to be more than offset. You talk about carbon offsets, it's being offset in India and China a lot faster than we could possibly shut down our consumption of energy in the United States, which shuts down our economy. 
   The equation for people that are holding the gavels that control this policy in this Congress today is drive up the cost of energy, drive up the cost so that people will use less energy. I said when gas got to be $3, what's the solution for $3 gas? The answer, $3 gas, because the American people are going to demand that their gas be cheaper. 
   Now we are at $4.07 or $4.08 gas, and what's the solution for that? Well, maybe, it's $4.07 or $4.08 gas. Maybe we are going to see a $5 gas or more. Maybe we are going to see crude oil go from $139 a barrel to maybe $200 a barrel or more. The predictions are saying that. 
   The futures don't quite say that yet, but the speculators are heading in that direction. Why are they doing that? Because they understand there is a policy in this Congress today, as we listened to Mrs. Bachmann talk to us about this, to drive up the price of energy. The idea that we would ride our bicycles instead of drive our cars. 
   They can get by with it. They can get by with it because we put the hose in our tank, the nozzle in our tank. When we squeeze that nozzle we are paying 18.4 cents a gallon in gas tax. That's Federal, a lot of the States, 20 or more cents in gas tax as well so we can support our transportation in our roads. That's a user's fee. I fully support that. 
   The people that squeeze the nozzle to pump the gas into their tanks in my district and across this country believe that money is going to build new roads and rebuild existing roads. That's a sad thing to say, but about one-third of that money goes to that, and the balance of that goes to other causes. Some of them are extreme causes, extreme causes, like, for example, 28 percent used for environmental and archaeological compliance, 28 percent of the 18.4 cents that you put in there for gas tax per gallon is going to comply with environmentalist ideas and to look for arrowheads out there. That's 28 percent, and 17 percent goes to subsidized mass transit. 
   The people that are voting for those folks that hold the gavels that have this green idea that we should drive up the cost of energy, aren't paying for the cost of that energy because they are getting on the Metro down here at South Capitol and riding over to Falls Church for $1.25, subsidized by the gas tax that's paid in Mrs. Bachmann's district, my district, Mr. Gingrey's district in Georgia and across this country. My constituents don't know that because we haven't told them enough. 
   But if I went to them and say, hey, I want to take 17 percent of your gas tax and spend it on something else and subsidize somebody else's transportation, they would object. That's why their constituents, though, the intercity urban Members of this Congress are not held accountable for higher energy  prices because it's being subsidized by the gas fees that are paid by people in my district and across the country. 
   By the way it doesn't work for us. It is an awful long drive to get to the Metro or the ``L'' or to get to the subway or to get to the trolley car like they have in San Francisco. But that's all subsidized by the gas that we are paying that's tax on part of this $4.07 that's out there. 
   Now, what is the thinking that's going on in the leadership of this Congress? Well, I pulled out one little thing, green, think green. We had a green initiative, called a Green the Capitol initiative that was initiated by Speaker Pelosi when shortly after she was sworn into this Congress. 
   Her idea was that we should show them how to do cap and trade. We should trade-off some carbon credits. 
   So I got some information that came out of the House Administration Committee, it goes back to the Chief Administrative Officer of the House, Mr. Dan Beard, who at the direction of Speaker Pelosi spent $89,000 to purchase carbon credits. Well, why purchase the carbon credits at the direction of the Speaker? Because the Speaker wanted to be sure that we were a carbon-neutral capital complex. 
   To be carbon neutral they shelled out $89,000 of your tax dollars, Americans, $89,000 to purchase carbon credits. I didn't know you could actually go on the market and do that, but you can. It has been done. The market was the Chicago Climate Exchange, not the Chicago Board of Trade, not the Chicago Mercantile, it was the Chicago Climate Exchange, a place where you can go and buy futures, I presume, and buy puts on carbon credits. 
   So $89,000 went out to carbon credits, and here is where they went, brokered through the Chicago Climate Exchange, this report, through the House Administration Committee--just some of the money I have been able to 
   track, not all of it--$14,500 went to the North Dakota Farmers Union. Now, I don't think they actually farm anything, but it went to the North Dakota Farmers Union. 
   I know they do support some folks on the other side of the aisle very aggressively, and that's fine, this is America. The money went, $14,500, to the Farmers Union then it was redistributed through there to some of the farmers in places in North Dakota. 
   Some of the farmers, reportedly, were already doing no-till, but to try to convince them, give them incentive to switch over from till to no-till. Now, I don't know what the acres actually are--25, 35 percent of the acres around my neighborhood, I believe, are no-till. 
   It's a good practice. I support it. I have got good, responsible, neighbors that do use it. I encourage it. But to pay somebody that is already doing no-till extra money from the taxpayers through the capital complex and the Chicago Climate Exchange, so they will go and do no-till, doesn't seem to me to accomplish a single thing except get rid of some money and allow some leadership in this Congress to posture themselves as being carbon neutral. 
   What a glorious thing to accomplish, carbon neutral. You have got to dig back down through the paperwork and get the House Administration staff to find this. I didn't find out about it until we dug into it. So $14,500 to North Dakota Farmers Union, another $14,500 went to my State. It went to a reengineered generating plant in Iowa, Chillicothe, Iowa, $14,500, so that they could be having an incentive to clean up their act a little bit and emit less carbon. Those carbon credits were available to them, and we sent them the $14,500. 
   The problem was they had shut down before the money got there. There wasn't anything accomplished out of that we can determine. I am open to more information, that's what I know today. But those are two pieces at $14,500 each. I haven't chased the rest of the money down, but it occurs to me we didn't accomplish a single thing with carbon emissions and the Chillicothe plant. 
   We didn't get there with any money in time. That plant is shut down, not functioning, I understand. Some of the North Dakota farmers were already doing no-till. 
   Well, what we did was we set up an exchange now so that we can brokering money and taking taxpayer dollars and send them around the country and the industry, and private sector will be doing the same thing. 
   The value of these credits were estimated by the Heritage Foundation that they would start out at about $13 and then you figure out how you calculate what a unit is, but $13 a unit. In about 10 years they will be up to about $130 a unit. As near as I can determine, there is no audit system. Nobody is going to go check those farmers in North Dakota and find out if they actually switch to no-till, stayed off no-till or went off to do something else. I guess it won't pay to check that power plant in Iowa because it's not actually producing any power either. 
   That's just one of the things that happens when you get this myopic idea that you are going to worship at the altar of green instead of produce the energy that this country needs. 
   I would just point out another thing here, here is another little piece to look at. Here is the overall energy pie. This is the energy that we consume in America. Look at the number, it's 101.4 quatrillion BTUs, all together, and that's all the kinds of energy that we use. That's gas, that's diesel fuel, and it goes on, there is coal, there is natural gas. 
   This is the big picture of all of the energy that we are consuming, 101.4 quatrillion BTUs of energy. Now, that's a lot of energy. These are the proportions. I call it the energy pie, and the sizes of the slices of the pie, or the pieces of the production--you can see that nuclear is over here, and it has got a nice piece of that. It needs to be a lot more. But I have got also the ring here that shows us the production pie. 
   This is the exact diameter of the size of our production. You can see that the circle for the size of the volume of our production in America is 72 percent of the size of our consumption in America. 
   So what Republicans propose to do is grow these sources of energy so that this middle circle gets as big as the outer circle and maybe bigger. If it does, that will mean that we are exporting energy. 
   I will submit that every phase, every kind of energy has a future in this country. It needs to compete economically, we need to get into it. As Mrs. Bachmann said, there is no sensible reason not to tap into the energy that sits underneath us, the Outer Continental Shelf, the North Slope of Alaska. I have gone up there. 
   By the way, if there is any environmental damage to take place in the North Slope of Alaska and in ANWR, we had already heard about it from the other side of the aisle. They would stand up and say here is where that bucket of crude oil spilled out on the tundra, but we have not done that. Even with 1970s technology we have did so efficiently, cleanly and safely, and, yes some little things did happen. I won't deny that. 
   We cleaned them up. We did so effectively and safely. Our technology is a lot better. We do directional drilling now. 
   If we drill ANWR, that will be the equivalent, there's 19.6 million acres. Drilling in ANWR on 2,000 acres is the equivalent of a postage stamp in the corner of a football field. It's out on a coastal plain. 
   The pictures that you see of the pristine alpine forest are false. There is not a single tree up there. Anybody that went to eighth grade knows, the Arctic Circle is a line north of which trees can't grow. There is not a single tree up there. 
   Tundra reconstitutes itself. I have seen acres of it where the Eskimos showed me, we kind of tore this up by accident. We smoothed it over and 5, 6 years later it grows back green. Looks good, I have seen it. 
   That environment was not damaged in the North Slope. It will not be damaged in ANWR. It's built out on ice roads. We punched the holes out. Even the most extreme environmentalist on the left side of this aisle in this Congress couldn't fly over the North Slope and point to the oil field, they wouldn't see it. 
   I can find it because I know what it looks like. I would like to take them up there and show them. All I saw for wildlife, there are no native caribou, by the way. I saw four musk oxen, that's it, standing there with their head down, they wouldn't know if there's an oil well next to them or not, but it's environmentally friendly.  
   We did it in a responsible fashion, and we have got 1 million barrels a day to bring down here. We need to open up every kind of energy, do it now, do it all the time, do it everywhere. Get it into the marketplace, get the rules out of the way, and let's not be punishing companies for producing energy. Yes, one of the slices on this pie needs to be conservation as well. 
   I thank the gentlelady from Minnesota for yielding to me, and thanks for leading this special order.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (FREE FLOW OF INFORMATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member from Texas (Mr. Smith) for yielding to me. I do appreciate the privilege to serve on this committee. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 2102, the Free Flow of Information Act. It would protect journalists in most circumstances from having to reveal their sources or produce documents and notes to government. 
   This is not a problem. The press has flourished for over 200 years without a Federal privilege. The Department of Justice reports that since 1991 they have issued only 19 subpoenas to reporters seeking information. Only 19 since 1991. No one is above the law. Even reporters, as the Supreme Court has held, sometimes need to divulge information during the investigation of crimes. We have not seen the level of professionalism in journalism that we see in the medical profession, for example, and I think that is an argument we ought to weigh also. 
   Mr. Speaker, I would bring up the issue of our national security. Some of the people who hide behind the shield of journalism today routinely release classified national security data and publish it as if it were their patriotic duty and hide behind the shield of journalism. 
   H.R. 2102 places a heavy burden on the Department of Justice to demonstrate a compelling need for a reporter's source, which can be negated by the personal whims of hundreds of Federal judges who would handle these cases. The shield bill also makes it more difficult for the Department of Justice and other government agencies to fight crime and protect our national security. For example, the bill contains a limited number of examples where the privilege doesn't apply. Most of the Department of Justice crime fighting activity, such as efforts to combat child pornography or alien smuggling, is not addressed under this bill. 
   For example, there is a flaw in the bill because the Department of Justice could obtain source information to prevent a terrorist attack but not acquire the same information after the fact, after an attack, say, on the Twin Towers or on the Capitol. Additionally, H.R. 2102's definition of a journalist is so broad it would protect the media outlets of designated terrorist organizations, even terrorists themselves. I know the chairman has addressed that issue, but the language still remains broad. 
   Congress, State legislatures, and the courts have taken significant steps in certain circumstances to assure confidentiality, as have 49 States. Examples of protected information include pre-patent research, a person's medical records, the fact that someone may have sought medical health care, information related to a victim of sexual violence. The list goes on. 
   Mr. Speaker, with these very private subjects, there are significant legal, moral, or fiduciary obligations granted to protect people when their disclosure could cause serious and irrevocable hardships. People who improperly disclose them should not be protected through a media shield law just because they gave the information to a reporter or blogger, not someone else. 
   Historically, when Congress has enacted public access legislation, it has balanced the competing rights of personal and business privacy. Consider the Freedom of Information Act. It is one of the most important ``public right to know'' statutes in this country's history. FOIA specifically exempts from disclosure information protected by law, proprietary or privileged business information, and information that could lead to unwarranted invasions of personal privacy. Similarly, whistle-blower laws only protect the reporting of information related to suspected wrongdoing, not the disclosure of all private information. Congress's long-standing commitment to these distinctions in protecting confidential and proprietary information can and should be continued. 
   Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2102 protects the inappropriate leaking of a good deal of legitimately private information in the same way it protects a source who has disclosed information in an appropriate situation. For example, if a source told a reporter the name of a victim of a sexual assault, H.R. 2102 would block the victim from holding the leaker-source accountable for any harm such a story could cause. 
   The same would be true for information related to the location of a domestic violence safe house or employee records that might include Social Security numbers and credit information from stores and credit bureaus. It could also provide an absolute privilege when a source for purely personal purposes leaked information in violation of a specific court order protecting the contents of discovery or settlements that were sealed by a court. When and if such information appears in the media, the person harmed would be unable to use the judicial process to assure that the law fulfilled its purpose, even when every other avenue had been pursued to no avail. 
   So my question is, Mr. Speaker, what are we trying to fix? What is the problem? Nineteen subpoenas since 1991, a handful of cases stacked up against a mountain of information that has been pored through in the public media, classified information leaked into the New York Times, for example, jeopardizing our national security, and what is Congress doing about that? We are coming here to produce a shield law to protect even more of the same behavior. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - October 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the privilege to address you here on the floor of the United States House of Representatives. 
   And having been a speaker in waiting, I had the privilege to listen to some of the Blue Dogs talk about their budgetary priorities. And I also listened to the reflection of the individual from Iowa, whose cows I represent down there in my territory. And we are good neighbors and we've worked together over the last 5 years that I have been in this Congress. 
   There always are two sides to an issue, and a number of the statements that were made here I absolutely agree with. I would submit, though, that there is a distinction between us, and that is, I want a balanced budget. I worked for a balanced budget. I called for a balanced budget upon my arrival in this Congress 5 years ago. I've sought to produce those numbers and get that language out on the floor. 
   My Blue Dog friends also call for a balanced budget, but they're willing to raise the taxes. And they have offered several budgets to this Congress that would have raised taxes in order to balance this budget. 
   I would submit that we need to balance the budget a different way. We need to do it by controlling spending. And we can do a better job of controlling discretionary spending, but in there is not the answer, not the complete answer to the things that we need to do. 
   The tax cuts that came from the Bush administration immediately following September 11, 2001, and the next wave of tax cuts that we did in 2003 have stimulated this economy, and they have probably kept us from a recession and maybe even a depression. So, Mr. Speaker, I would submit this: I would take your reflection back to that period of time that was in the end of the Clinton administration, during the campaign of the Bush-Gore campaign in the year 1999 and 2000 and the beginning of the Bush administration. We had this growing, booming economy, and it coupled with serious spending cuts that were brought forth on the floor of this Congress by Republican leadership, the new Republican leadership that arrived here, elected in 1994, sworn in here in the first week of January of 1995, and came in and said, we're  going to do these 10 things, and we're going to work towards a balanced budget. And they actually didn't know that they could accomplish that. But as they brought the spending restraint and the cuts and the efforts to eliminate entire departments, unsuccessful, I might add, Mr. Speaker, that constrained this growth in spending. And by the way, they didn't have any inhibitions about cutting down and limiting the spending that President Clinton wanted to do at the time. They had political opposition, so points were being scored on both sides. And while that was going on, we were holding this budget down. In fact, the government went into shutdown. And there was a time when I thought that the leadership in this Congress should not have blinked. But in the end, regardless of who got the blame, this Congress, had it not had the majority that was here, and I would point out to the Speaker that that was a Republican majority, we would not have had a balanced budget in the 1990s. You would not have seen John Kasich with a T-shirt that said ``back in the black'' with the line of our spending cut down and where we were going into solvency. 
   But we got into solvency. And I don't get the credit for that, I wasn't here at the time. This Congress got into solvency because it had solid, conservative leadership. And then, as the administration changed from the Clinton administration, which has been lauded here tonight, I believe, to the Bush administration, at the same time we had a dot-com bubble in our economy, there was a growth on Wall Street that capital was being attracted to the information age, that type of industry. And there was a belief that because technology had taken the microchip to the level where we could store and transfer energy more effectively and more efficiently than ever before, there were billions of dollars speculated in dot-com companies on the idea that, with all this technology, we are transitioning from the industrial age into the information age. 
   And as we go into the information age, Mr. Speaker, the capital that was attracted to those businesses was capital that simply was placed upon the speculation that, because we could transfer and store information more efficiently than ever before, somehow these companies that were formed for that purpose would be able to all make a profit. But the bubble, when it burst, it was the realization that this information, just because we could store it and transfer it more effectively than ever before, didn't necessarily transfer into profit. It couldn't be translated directly into profit because the information storage and transferability that came with the information age, that actually caused the information age, that ability was predicated upon how that information could provide a good or a service more efficiently, or to the extent that that information could be used for recreational purposes. 
   Now, we understand the good or the service being provided more efficiently. Look at the things that we can do with tracking inventory, for example, or dispatching trucks on the roads of America with the satellite transponders, to be able to sit there at a software screen, if you're dispatching trucks in a nationwide or continentwide trucking company, and be able to see on that screen a little dot where every truck is, be able to click on that and find out when that truck got its last rest, how much rest the driver had, what the maintenance is on the truck, what the cargo is, what the delivery time is, how many miles are left, and be able to have that software package give you a warning on when a load might be late. And we went from keeping significant inventories in our warehouses in America to just-in-time delivery, partly because we could do a more effective job of dispatching trucks. 
   That's just one of the things that came with the information age, and that's efficiencies that came into this because of being able to store and transfer and calculate more efficiently than ever before. But, a miscalculation that was made by Wall Street was a miscalculation that, because we could store and transfer and calculate more effectively, that it all translated into profit. It did not. 
   And so the speculators on Wall Street and into the private companies, whether they were publicly traded or whether they were privately traded companies, the speculation part of that was the dot-com bubble. And it burst. And it burst kind of slowly, not like a balloon pop, but kind of a slow letting out of the air. And as that bubble collapsed, that transitioned across the end of the Clinton administration into the beginnings of the Bush administration. And while that was going on, we had corruption that emerged within major companies, within major corporations within the United States. And we know who some of them are, Enron, for example. 
   And so, as this corruption was corrected and as we saw legislation being passed in this Congress and signed by the President, there was also downward pressure on our stock market because they didn't know how much regulation they were going to get from this Congress, under the pen of the President, what was going to happen. So, how would this Congress react? 
   Well, as that debate went on, as we began to clean up the corruption that emerged, and thankfully that did happen to a large degree, that went on top of the slow letting out of the air, I call it the bursting of the dot-com bubble, those two pressures downward came downward on our economy. Well, we know that our tax collections are also predicated upon how strong our economy is. And if we have growth, we will have more taxes; if we have a decline, we will have fewer taxes. With the dot-com bubble bursting and the corporation corruption that was being addressed, both suppressed our economy and the tax revenues declined. 
   While this was going on and as the President was getting his feel of coming into the Oval Office and beginning to become the newly sworn President of the United States, January until September, in September of that same year that the President was sworn in, while he is dealing with the bursting of the dot-com bubble and the corporation corruption, and while this Congress is as well, we had the September 11 attack on the Twin Towers, on the Pentagon, and a plane that crashed in Pennsylvania. That was a direct attack on our national defense center and a direct attack on our financial centers. 
   And so, Mr. Speaker, all of these things came descending down upon this Nation, focused like a laser beam on the responsibilities of the President of the United States. And the President responded by calling for tax cuts in a wave that came pretty closely after the September 11th attacks. While we were ramping up our defense, while we were ramping up homeland security, while we were setting up the TSA, and today we walk through the airports and there are billions that have been spent for the security just to board airplanes, and you add that to the cost of the expansion of our military, the cost that came because we went, appropriately, into Afghanistan and then in the following year and a half we went then on into Iraq, all of these things were pressures on this economy. And all of them worked against a balanced budget that, the last number I saw it looked like we were going to come in about $158 billion in the red, $158 billion, and one could speculate as to whether that is a hard number, whether it might go up or whether it might go down as a percentage of our overall budget, tells me if we would have had hard-nosed fiscal discipline even on the discretionary spending just in the time that I have been here in 5 years, we would have reached a balanced budget. We would have gotten there just by having spending discipline, not the discipline that says I want to increase spending because I think I see these needs, and if I'm going to do that, then I want to increase taxes. That's the approach that comes, and, admittedly, the Blue Dogs have more discipline than a lot of the folks on their side of the aisle, but they don't have as much spending discipline as I have. I would pull this thing right on down and I would set it out and say, we can get to a balanced budget by having discipline and discretionary spending.     
   But, Mr. Speaker, that is not really the answer either. That is a constant fight, and it is a diminishing effort to slow down and eventually reduce discretionary spending to balance the budget because the more we do that, it is working in the right direction because it slows growth in government and it holds more personal responsibility and so less spending creates less  dependency. Those are all good things, Mr. Speaker. 
   But the other side of this is that while we are talking about discretionary spending, the huge elephants in the room, one might speak, or should I say the gorilla in the room, I hesitate to say the donkey in the room, but those huge gorillas in the room are this: Medicare; Social Security; to a lesser extent Medicaid; the entitlements; and then, of course, the growing interest, which we heard about from the Blue Dogs, the growing cost of maintaining the interest. But Medicare and Social Security are the two big ones. 
   As the President stepped out from his second inaugural address that took place in January right out here in the west portico of the Capitol Building in January 2005 and talked about the position we were in as a Nation and we were poised to hopefully end the war in Iraq and move forward with our economy; the two rounds of tax cuts that we had done had succeeded in rebounding this economy and got us back into a growth mode again, and today we are sitting on 49 consecutive months of growth. Astonishing. 
   There are astonishing measures of the economic growth in this country. But the President stepped out from that west portico and invested his political capital in addressing the Social Security entitlement, a huge burden that is coming at us. As I listen to the Blue Dogs talk about Social Security, I didn't hear them talk about, this is a bit of an old number, but a number that I recall from a couple of years ago and is at least representative and it will not be precisely accurate today but slightly dated, $1.7 trillion in the Social Security trust fund. That was there a couple of years ago. That trust fund continues to grow today because we are collecting more Social Security than it takes to pay the benefits out to the people that are the recipients of that Social Security. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, I don't submit that where we are with this is a good idea. I point that out that there is an account there that presumably we could draw from that is going to address this big entitlement. But it works out like this. Even if that money were going into a lock box, as some said it was, even if that were an account that grew interest at $1.7 trillion and add some more in there over the last couple of years to get that number up, it is probably approaching $2 trillion or more by now, the accumulation in that account goes, it accumulates until about the year 2016. And then it goes the other way. Then we start spending more than we are taking in. And from that year forward, that roughly $2 trillion that will be in there will be spent down by the year, and these numbers aren't the freshest again, but in the neighborhood of 2042, by then the Social Security trust fund is broke. Then what do we do? 
   I would submit, Mr. Speaker, that, first of all, it wasn't a good idea to put the Social Security money into a trust fund if we were going to spend the money from the trust fund and put it into the general fund. If we were going to borrow the money from the Social Security trust fund and spend it with our overall budget, which we have been doing, that breaks faith with idea that there is a trust fund, because in the end it is an accounting gimmick. 
   I have in my file somewhere, an electronic file of one of the bonds that are on file. This Social Security trust fund that is approaching $2 trillion is the accounting of it is, yes, electronically but also it is an accounting that is paperwork, actual bonds that are printed on paper that is identical to this paper worth no more than probably not as much as a blank sheet of paper from a copy machine, 8 1/2 by 11. They print these off. I have one that is a sample. I believe it is $3.54 billion on that little sheet of paper that says trust fund account bond for the Social Security trust fund. Those original documents, Mr. Speaker, are on file in a filing cabinet in Parkersburg, West Virginia, ROBERT BYRD's district, and they are there because some enterprising Senator passed legislation that said, you will keep a paper accounting of the Social Security trust fund. 
   Well, the paper is an accounting. The electronics is an accounting. But the accountability of our Social Security trust fund is the full faith and credit of the people of the United States as represented through the United States Congress, and when the day comes that we need to tap into that Social Security trust fund, which will be a day in about the year 2016 when we start tapping into that, there isn't any money there. It is only there on IOUs from the government to the government, which is the equivalent of writing yourself an IOU and putting it in your pocket. The value is only the value that it reminds us that we have this obligation to keep our sacred trust with the senior citizens of America. I am pledged to do that. Our President is pledged to do that. I think that that is something that is a universal opinion between Democrats and Republicans in this Congress, that we keep our sacred trust with the seniors in America, that we do not diminish their benefits, their anticipated promised benefits, that we keep that intact, that we don't increase the contribution rate, we keep that intact. 
   But something that we have done if we had had the support of the Blue Dogs, because the Republicans were in support of this, was the President's proposal that we offer people the opportunity if they were young enough to make the actuarials work out, a personal retirement account that could begin to transition some people off of Social Security. They get their Social Security benefits too, but it would supplement that, and then the need to increase that would have diminished over time. 
   We couldn't get there, Mr. Speaker. We couldn't reform the huge entitlement of Social Security even to keep it actuarially sound. Some said it is a political third rail the President should never have touched. The President says it is a third rail that you if you don't touch it, it is the third rail, but he couldn't and we couldn't get the job done to reform Social Security even though there was no down side for senior citizens, at least a level guaranteed to them, even though there was only an upside for the younger generations, and one of the reasons is the issue got demagogued across this country dramatically. 
   The President did at least 30 stops across the country. He articulated what this was about. It would have been good if he would have had spokesmen and women from the younger generation, the under-30-somethings that were half as vocal as the 30-somethings that come out here on the floor that would speak up for their opportunity to be able to ensure their retirement without having to become financially destitute when you get from that point where we start out 16 workers for every one retired at the beginning of Social Security, where we are about three to one now and where we will soon get to two to one under this current program. 
   Mr. Speaker, we need to look into the future. We need a long-term planning approach to the things we do in this Congress. And this electoral process does anything but. It focuses Members on the idea that you get elected, you come down here and swear into office and while you are doing that, there is someone announcing their candidacy to run against you. They're home in the district 6 or 7 days in a week, stabbing you in the media, raising money and trying to unseat you. You are supposed to concentrate on policy when you have someone trying to unseat your political survival from the day you swore in, and you are up for reelection in 2 years. 
   So this constitutional system that we have, in fact, it is one that I appreciate and revere. In a lot of ways it makes us very responsive to the public. Our fingers are on their pulse. They let us know; we react quickly. This House can move more quickly than the Senate by far if we decide to do it. That is a good thing. 
   The bad thing is if I called a meeting and said, we are going to start a new long-term planning caucus here in the United States Congress, and invite all 435 Members, you know, if I ordered a lot of good food and advertised it, some would show up. And then after the next week and the next week and the next week, pretty soon there will only be a small handful of people that would be working on something like that just because the system is set up where it focuses us on the things that 
   are urgent, sometimes at the expense of the policy that is important. That is the down side of this constitutional system that sets us up for reelections every 2 years. But if you give us a lifetime tenure, I'm not sure we would solve the problem either.  
   And you go over to the Senate side and there every 6 years a third of them up for reelection every election cycle and they don't seem to have a lot more interest in long-term planning than we do over here. 
   So I look to Wall Street. I look to major corporations. I look to the business communities in America for leadership. I am wondering what are they putting together so that we can have economic viability and a healthy populace that can be raising families and bringing up the next generation so that we can continue this American Dream. I watch what they do, and I get the unalterable message from them that their real focus is on their next quarterly report. 
   Well, I understand that. You have got to produce profit for your investors, and the board of directors is telling you what they want you to do. But where is the leadership in America for long-term vision? Where is the leadership that will take us down this path where we will eventually get to solve the Social Security problem, to solve the Medicare problem, and I will submit the words of George Will which were, democracies function under the lash of necessity. 
   And we haven't reached the lash of necessity if we are talking about actuarial tables that start going into zero on the Social Security trust fund in 2016 nor a fund that runs out to zero in 2042. That is not the lash of necessity. We need the American people to be looking ahead and demanding that we put long-term plans in place. And that is important that the media, that the philosophers, that the writers, the people that are opinion leaders in America join with us so we can put the pieces in place for a long-term solution to Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid to a lesser degree. All that solves the interest problem, and even then, if we simply had discipline in our spending, we can solve this all with growth, Mr. Speaker. 
   So if the Blue Dogs want to talk about getting to a balanced budget, I am for that. Let's do so. Let's do it by spending discipline. Let's do it by reforming Medicare. Let's do it by reforming Social Security. By the way, I have a couple of ideas for you on Medicaid. If we can do those things, this budget becomes easy. We need to index our spending then to the factor of inflation which should keep us down below the revenue stream when we have the economic growth that we have if we have good favorable tax policies. 
   I can go on into subject matter that has to do with reforming the Tax Code that eliminates the IRS and eliminates the entire income tax code. It untaxes all the production in America and puts it on consumption. Mr. Speaker, I would take us all down that path, and I may well run out of time before I can get to that. 
   But I wanted to address the concerns that were raised by the Blue Dogs. And I would point out that to compare spending, the spending of the National debt to the amount of money that we spend in this Congress on education, I can look through this Constitution that I have in my pocket, and I can't find anything in there that says, thou shalt extract money from the taxpayers to fund education. It is not comparable to the National debt. It is not relevant to the National debt. To the extent we make the decision that we want to invest in education, it is not something that is a legitimate measure. 
   Neither is it a legitimate measure on the part of the Members on the other side of the aisle. And I believe that includes the Blue Dogs as well. Neither is it a legitimate measure to argue that because we spend billions of dollars in Iraq, we ought to spend billions of dollars on SCHIP. There is no legitimate measure. They are not linked. They can't be linked. But if you want to link them, if you choose to link SCHIP spending to the global war on terror, to the funding that supports our men and women whose lives are on the line in places like Afghanistan and Iraq and other places around the world, if that is your will, to link that spending, then let me associate this for you. 
   I point it out this way, Mr. Speaker, that if it is a zero sum game, and by presumption it is a zero sum game if we are going to compare national defense spending to the State Children's Health Insurance Program, then the zero sum game comes down to this: How many bullet-proof vests would you deprive our soldiers and marines of in order to fund health insurance for middle, let me say, upper-income kids? Because we are talking about a Congress that passed subsidy for health insurance premiums for families in my State up over $103,000; $103,250, 400 percent of poverty. That was the Pelosi plan. That was, Mr. Speaker, the 400 percent of poverty that passed off the floor of this Congress. 
   I submit that subsidizing health insurance premiums when people are making over $103,000 a year is an irresponsible expansion of this budget. It cannot be defended within the context of the previous hour that was delivered by the Blue Dogs. It can't be defended by anyone unless it is their will and their intent to move us to socialized medicine. 
   What is our line here? I will argue that in the 1990s we passed welfare reform. This welfare reform was called workfare in a lot of cases, to move people off of the multigenerational dependency on welfare, move them into work, transition them smoothly so they could get there and observe and recognize and act upon the reality that when people moved off of welfare when they started to earn more income, they would no longer qualify for Medicaid which was, of course, the health care that is provided for the low-income among us. The working poor weren't going to have health insurance for their children.     
   So this Congress passed SCHIP, the State Children's Health Insurance Plan, to subsidize, in most cases, to replace, to buy the health insurance premiums for working-poor kids, the children of the working poor, so they could transition out of welfare and onto work without losing the health coverage for their children. Pretty good idea. When it passed out of this Congress and went to the States, the States had this opportunity to take it up. We took it up in Iowa. We called it HAWK-I. We called it the Healthy and Well Kids in Iowa. 
   We set that at 200 percent of poverty. I supported that and adapted some of the language technically and voted for 200 percent of poverty level. That 200 percent of poverty level then grew. The State got an exception where one could exempt 20 percent of the income of a family. So you get into a situation where the 200 percent of poverty, that turns out to be about $41,000 and change a year for a family of four; when you exempt 20 percent of the income, that goes to $51,625. 
   That is where we are today. I don't call $51,625 the working poor in my State. It might be in some States. It's not the working poor in my State. Most people don't make more than that in the State, but most people provide the health insurance for their families and their children. When it's provided through the employer, this bill that was pushed through this Congress provides a perverse incentive to crowd kids off of private health insurance and put them on the government-funded health insurance. That is the crowd-out factor. 
   The crowd-out factor was a lot bigger for the 400 percent of poverty. I don't recall that number, as I stand here, Mr. Speaker, but as that bill went over to the Senate and it was negotiated down to 300 percent of poverty, the crowd-out factor became 2 million kids in America that today have health insurance that is paid for by their parents or at the workplace of their parents, and those 2 million kids would be crowded off of their own private insurance rolls and put onto the government-funded insurance rolls. 
   Now they would match up with a number about 3.8 million kids that don't have insurance today. They have health care, but statistically they don't have insurance. That sometimes is a fluid number. There are people in transition between one policy and another. That is added into that 3.8 million. But the 2 million is a hard number. That is the number of kids that get crowded out, pushed off their own private health insurance. 
   That is unacceptable. If we are trying to insure children of the working poor, we don't take it up to $103,250 income for a family of four and say we are going to subsidize it up to that point, now we have helped the poor kids, because $103,000 is not poor. That is really wealthy where I come from. That is 400  percent of poverty. That is not the answer to subsidizing health insurance for the kids of the working poor. That is what SCHIP is supposed to be. 
   Three hundred percent of poverty is what this House passed the last time after it was negotiated in the Senate. That is $77,437 in my State. In some States, it's $83,000. That is not the working poor for a family of four. Probably not for a family of any normal size that we would see today. But that is the standard that this House has passed again. Still, it crowds out 2 million kids. One of my objections, one of my real objections to this is that they have changed the language in this bill. They have changed the language that under current Medicaid qualifier standards there has to be a demonstration of citizenship or a lawful presence in the United States that extends beyond the 5-year prohibition for receiving any welfare benefits here in this country. 
   That provision has been weakened by an addition to a section in this SCHIP bill, and it has been done so by the majority, and they have done it more than once. When we raised the objection and said that this language has changed and it will provide taxpayer dollar benefits to people who are in this country illegally to give them Medicaid and SCHIP, the majority said, no, that's not true because we have a paragraph in the bill that says none of these funds shall go to fund illegals. 
   I would submit, Mr. Speaker, that they wouldn't have had to add the language to the bill if they weren't going to do something with it. The language that they added to the bill is scored by the Congressional Budget Office, who analyzed the language and has a job in a nonpartisan way of calculating the impact on our budget, and they concluded it would cost an additional, the changes that open the door to allow people who are deportable to collect health insurance benefits and health benefits in the form of Medicaid, illegals in the United States, the cost to that is, according to the Congressional Budget Office, $3.7 billion in Federal tax dollars, $2.8 billion in State tax dollars. The easy math on that is $6.5 billion all together it costs the taxpayers of the United States to fund Medicaid and SCHIP, most of it, a vast, vast majority of it, for illegals, that if we simply ask the immigration customs and enforcement why don't we deliver that benefit in the form of a voucher and you guys take it up there and hand it over, when they met with most of these people they would have to take them into custody and take them home to the country where they belong. 
   That is the reality of the law. That is the law, Mr. Speaker. $6.5 billion, and yet I have people here in this Congress and around the country that say: STEVE KING is wrong on this. This bill really doesn't allow for funding to go to illegals. It really doesn't open the door. My answer to that, first of all, is if you think I am wrong, what is your number? Submit to me your number. Would you like to submit zero? Say that to the Congressional Budget Office. 
   Right here, Mr. Speaker, is the CBO report that shows the $3.7 billion, and the easy math that came from the Energy and Commerce Committee to put the States' share in that comes to $6.5 billion. My question is: If you think I am wrong, what is your number? The second question is: If I am wrong, why is the majority so insistent upon keeping their language in the bill that opens the standards up for Medicaid qualification that just simply says all you have to do is write down a Social Security number and we are going to recommend that the Social Security Administration verify that number, maybe send a letter back to the provider or to the State if that number doesn't match up. 
   We know how well that works with employment in this country. We have at least 6.9 million working illegals in America. According to the Center for Immigration Studies, those 6.9 million, which may now be 7 or 7.1 million people, at least 55 percent of them have false documentation that they present in order to get the job. That is a Social Security number that has been submitted in the same fashion under the same standard as would be required for Medicaid qualifications. We know how well it is working with hiring illegals in America when you say, give me a Social Security number. It is not working. That is why we are in the middle of this immigration debate, Mr. Speaker. 
   So, I will submit that that same standard has no chance of working any better if you are going to use it to be able to qualify applicants for Medicaid and SCHIP. It defies logic to think that the Congressional Budget Office hands out a document that says $3.7 billion Federal, and Energy and Commerce calculates the State share of that and it comes to $2.8 billion, and you are at $6.5 billion in cost. Why does it cost $6.5 billion more money, if there is nothing in this bill that funds illegals? And why is the majority going to fall on their sword to protect the language that opens up the standards, if it doesn't change anything? One can't get past that. Facts are inconvenient truths to some people on the other side of the aisle and sometimes on this side of the aisle. 
   But what I recognize is I have been joined here by my colleague from New Jersey who occasionally will be watching C-SPAN at night and have a thought and a concept that he needs to get out here this evening. So with that in mind, with great gratitude, I would be happy to yield to the gentleman from New Jersey. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - October 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman for coming to the floor and giving us a New Jersey perspective on this issue of SCHIP and also the overall budget that we have. 
   As the gentleman arrived, I was reaching for a quote in my memory and I came up a little bit empty. And so I looked it up while I was listening to the gentleman from New Jersey. 
   You have heard a number of facts that have been rolled out by the gentleman from New Jersey. You have heard a number of facts that I have rolled out here. I have said they are stubborn things. But it was John Adams who spoke to facts in memorable fashion when he said: ``Facts are stubborn things. And whatever may be our wishes, our inclinations or the dictates of our passion, they cannot alter the state of facts and evidence.'' John Adams, and that was before the Declaration of Independence that he made that statement, as I recall. 
   And so as we laid these facts out here, this SCHIP initiative that we have today, current law, family of four qualifies in my State up to $51,625. It may be higher than that in New Jersey. 
   But the bill vetoed by the President and the bill that was passed out of this House last week is a bill that funds up to 300 percent of poverty, family of four, $77,437. That is off of Governor Culver's Web page. By doing the simple calculation that is provided there on whether you qualify or whether you don't, the $51,625, and 300 percent of poverty is pretty simple, you just do the math on that. 
   This House passed it at 400 percent of poverty. That was the Pelosi plan. The argument is this is not the cornerstone to socialized medicine. 
   Mr. Speaker, I submit when you cover 95 percent of the kids in America with SCHIP, which you would do once you get up over that 400 percent of poverty, only 5 percent are left on their own insurance. The rest are crowded out. The 2 million who would be crowded off their own insurance plan under this plan which has been vetoed by the President and then brought back in substantive identity to the first bill by the Pelosi-led Congress, that legislation still crowds out a huge percentage of the kids. 
   I yield to the gentleman from New Jersey. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - October 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Again I thank the gentleman from New Jersey. I would ask him to point out to the body the acronym of SCHIP that he illustrated in his speech. I know that poster is available, and so I would direct the attention of body to the gentleman from New Jersey and the poster.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (HEALTH CARE -- (House of Representatives - October 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I very much thank the gentleman from New Jersey. 
   I want to point out that this acronym has been out here now for over a week. When it says SCHIP stands for Socialized Clinton-Style Hillarycare for Illegals and their Parents, the criticism that has come for that is that no one has argued with the substance. They simply say, well, this is emotional. It is reactionary. Well, tell me what's wrong? Does this not lay the cornerstone 
   to socialized medicine, to provide for taxpayer-funded insurance for kids and families up over $100,000 for the 400 percent that was brought across this floor in the first place. 
   Mr. Speaker, does that not lay the cornerstone for socialized medicine? I submit, yes, it does. 
   And what happens in this county when, under current SCHIP, we have adults on up to age 25, 85 percent of those receiving SCHIP funding in Minnesota are adults. Some argue 92 percent. It is 66 percent in Wisconsin. I mean, these are huge numbers. This isn't for kids the way the system is today. But it is to lay the cornerstone to socialized medicine. I will support that statement. 
   As John Adams says, facts are stubborn things. Here is a fact about laying the cornerstone for socialized medicine. This is what President Bill Clinton said about achieving socialized health care on September 29, 2000: ``You know, when Hillary and HHS Secretary Donna Shalala and I started working on this back in 1993, we proposed a solution that would have covered all Americans. And it was too much for the system to accommodate at once, so we've gone back, piece, by piece, trying to achieve that. We have now the Children's Health Insurance. Next, we need to deal with the 55 to 65-year-old age group.'' 
   Does anybody think that this isn't part of a plan to lay the cornerstone for socialized medicine when the very words came out of the mouth of Bill Clinton on September 29, 2000? He was still President then. 
   And a speech he gave here on the floor of Congress on September 22, 1993, where he laid out component after component of the plan to get to Hillarycare. And by the way, it was Hillarycare. It was Hillary working behind the scenes in some secret meetings to put together an overall health care proposal which was socialized medicine. 
   Mr. Speaker, it was wrong then. It is wrong now. This is the cornerstone of socialized medicine. It is a component of Hillarycare. 
   Bill Clinton again, September 29, 2000: ``You know, when Hillary and Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala started working on this back in 1993, we proposed a solution that would have covered all Americans.'' 
   Well, a solution that covers all Americans, I would submit, isn't your private health care program, isn't the one that has been built by the free enterprise system, the one that has provided the incentive to do the research and development that has given us the best health care in the world. A system that would have covered all Americans is socialized medicine. That is a definitional fact. This is a direct quote from President Bill Clinton, September 29, 2000. 
   I say SCHIP stands for Socialized Clinton-style Hillarycare for Illegals and their Parents. It is a matter of historical fact. She met over and over again, and some would say the meetings could have been more lawful. That is not my issue so much as she was driving a health care policy as First Lady as if she were the lead health care policy wonk in America. It collapsed when the American people revolted against it because it was Hillarycare, because it was socialized medicine. 
   It came to us Clinton-style, but he delivered it here on the floor of the House of Representatives on September 22, 1993. In the year 2000, when he found out they couldn't drive it through, he said, well, we are going to give you a solution that will cover all Americans, but we are going to give it to you a piece at a time. 
   So when SCHIP passes at 200 percent of poverty, then we will raise it to 400 percent of poverty. This is what the Pelosi Congress wanted to do. These are all facts, these inconvenient, stubborn things. At 400 percent of poverty, you have only about 5 percent of the kids any longer on private health insurance. So the culture to provide for your children's health insurance premium is gone. It is wiped out. It is destroyed by a Congress bent on laying the cornerstone to socialized medicine, SCHIP. Socialized Clinton-style Hillarycare. Those issues are all addressed for what, Mr. Speaker, for illegals and their parents. 
   I have spoken to this. Here is the CBO score: $6.5 billion increased costs in fundings that are not currently going to illegal recipients of Medicaid, and those funding that currently are going to SCHIP to illegal recipients, that comes from the changes that are in this bill that passed this House last week and the bill the President vetoed, the bill that this Congress refused to override. That $6.5 billion. 
   They can argue that they changed the language. They did. They were distinctions without a difference, and the proof that it lacks a difference is because the Congressional Budget Office scored, evaluated the cost to taxpayers, at precisely the same dollar amount. Regardless of whether it was the language they first brought or the language that they amended it to, the distinction is without a difference. It still provides for health care for illegals in America. 
   Mr. Speaker, fact after fact come out here. These inconvenient truths, to quote a famous author in America. I will go down through some that I have missed. 
   It does weaken citizenship requirements. The loss in taxpayer dollars, the net loss to my State is $226 million. Everybody that has a State where people smoke will pay 61 cents more a pack. When they do that, they will pay more taxes. 
   It is also a fact that one of the most regressive taxes we have is the tax on tobacco because people less well-to-do tend to smoke more. It is an inverse relationship when they do a little better. We could look into the reasons for that, but we know this. Poor people pay a greater percentage of their income on the current tobacco tax, and will pay a far greater percentage of their income on the proposed tobacco tax. The idea on the part of the Speaker's side of the aisle is you would raise the tobacco tax and, therefore, there would be an incentive for people to smoke less.     
   I agree there would be, and I'd like to see what those numbers produce and maybe that's a good thing, and I'd like to evaluate that tax policy on that. 
   But we've got another little problem here, and that is, that in order to fund this increase, we have to have 22.4 million new smokers in America. So we've got to go out there and unleash Joe Camel again and get him out there recruiting the kids in America to start smoking, because if we don't do that, we can't fund their health insurance, and even if we do do that, we're still going to have, according to the first bill they passed at 400 percent of poverty, 70,000 families in America that qualify for SCHIP and still qualify to pay the alternative minimum tax, that tax on the rich. 
   So I'll submit, Mr. Speaker, that this is a bit of a bizarre proposal, and it's awfully hard to explain the rationale behind it when there are so many conflicting inconsistencies. But in the end, it's a net increase in cost to my State  of $226 million. It will take an increase of 22.4 million new smokers to fund it. It will fund, at 300 percent of poverty, families of four in my State earning $77,473. It will crowd 2 million kids off of the private family and business, job-funded insurance rolls, cost $6.5 billion to fund the illegals that are participating in programs that today are barred from so and add taxes to cigarettes of 61 cents a pack. 
   Now, you add that all up, those are the facts. Those are the stubborn things. Those are the inconvenient truths that the other side of the aisle has to deal with. I simply called it SCHIP, ``Socialized Clinton-style Hillarycare for Illegals and Their Parents.'' 
   So, Mr. Speaker, in the remaining time, I think that I should do a bit of a demonstration for the sake of popular demand. I wanted to point out for the body that we're spending $8 billion on our southern border, and this is supposed to keep us from the $6.5 billion in costs that are accumulated here under this SCHIP bill that came out of the Pelosi Congress. 
   But on that border that's 2,000 miles long, $8 billion, that's $4 million a mile. So I thought, you know, I've got a mile of gravel road that runs west of my house, and if Michael Chertoff came to me and he sad I'm going to give you $4 million but it's your job to make sure that only 75 percent of the people that want to cross that road get across and 25 percent of them stay where they are, that's our current efficiency rate that we're getting out of our $8 billion and $4 million a mile on our southern border today. We interdict about 25 percent of those trying, and about 75 percent get across. You might argue it's one out of three, but they'll testify one out of three, one out of four. We stopped 1,188,000 going across that border in the last year that was reported to me. That means about 4 million try. That's about 11,000 a night, 11,000 a night. Twice the size of Santa Anna's army pouring across our southern border, not in the day, at night. Every single night, Mr. Speaker. 
   What would I do if Michael Chertoff said, I'm going to offer you a contract. I'd bid it. It wouldn't be a no-bid contract. I'd want to compete for this, $4 million for my mile of road. What would I do? 
   Well, I'd get out there and build something because I know the Humvees cost a lot of money, and uniforms and retirement programs and health plans for our Federal employees cost a lot of money. Now, I love our border patrol. They're doing a great job, and I've been down there to work with them, but I would submit they could use some help. I would give them a little structure. I'd go in there and say, Your job would be a lot easier if we build you a physical barrier. I'd want it double. I'd put the fence in, and I'd build the wall. The wall would be something that would last a long, long time. 
   This would be the trenched footing that I would put in. It would be slip form, Mr. Speaker, and I would set this trench footing into the ground. I'd drag her along, and I'd pour slip form right behind it. It would look like this from the end. Then I'm going to set it up in this stand, and I'll show you how easy it is to build a wall. It will take about, let me say, $1.2 million, about $1.2 million a mile, and you just simply put this in about like that. That would be a piece of concrete that would be about 13 feet high, 13-and-a-half feet high, about half that for width, and then you pick up your little crane and drop this thing in here. That's about 12,000 pounds per formation. 
   Mr. Speaker, I thought I heard your gavel as I dropped that in the hole. I apologize for that. I was making a little too much noise. 
   I would wrap this up simply by then submitting that I believe I have demonstrated how we can protect America at about $1.2 million a mile as opposed to $4 million a mile. I'd encourage this Congress take a good look. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (PROCEDURAL FAIRNESS FOR SEPTEMBER 11 VICTIMS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I support S. 2106, the Procedural Fairness for September 11 Victims Act of 2007. 
   In the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, Congress created an operational alternative compensation program for victims killed or injured during the attacks. 
   This statute mandates that liability for all claims resulting from the 9/11 attacks is limited to an amount no greater than the limits of liability coverage maintained by the air carriers involved. 
   The statute further provides that compensation may only be obtained pursuant to a Federal cause of action brought in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, where a consolidated action is already pending. 
   Representatives of several passengers, ground victims and others are suing airline companies, airport security firms, airport authorities, and other defendants. The litigation focuses on events in New York; Washington, DC; Boston Logan Airport; and other areas around the country. 
   In most civil litigation brought in Federal court, rule 45, mentioned by my colleague from New York, of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure limits the service of trial subpoenas to nonparty witnesses to the district and State where the case was filed ``or at any place without the district that is within 100 miles of the place of trial.'' This limitation precludes the issuance of some subpoenas in the 9/11 litigation. 
   However, rule 45 also states, Mr. Speaker, that service may take place elsewhere pursuant to another Federal statute. For example, Congress allows for nationwide service under the False Claims Act, under the Veterans Benefits Act, and under the Civil RICO statute. 
   If this nationwide service feature is not extended to the 9/11 victims compensation law, a number of important witnesses will not be able to testify in person during the litigation. 
   There are alternatives to S. 2106, such as conducting pretrial, nonparty depositions around the country or videoconferencing, but they might prove costly. They're more likely to deny the jury the benefit of live, firsthand testimony. 
   Mr. Speaker, the bill applies equally to plaintiffs and defendants. The legislation promotes justice that is based on Federal precedent in other areas of law. 
   On this subject matter in this particular case, I agree with my colleague. This is a piece of legislation that did pass out of the full Judiciary Committee by voice vote, without any discernible opposition, something that brings us together here in this Congress, and I urge adoption. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (PROCEDURAL FAIRNESS FOR SEPTEMBER 11 VICTIMS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself so much time as I may consume. I just conclude with some of the time that I yield to myself, and I will do so briefly. Sometimes we put a lot of words into our dialogue here, and I just wanted to put it into the simple words. 
   This bill says a subpoena may be served at any place in the United States with regard to this Act. Very simple. It's something that I do believe provides a better opportunity for justice and equity for those who are involved in a cause of action on this 9/11 victims compensation, and so I urge adoption of this bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (HARDROCK MINING AND RECLAMATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - November 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 2262, the Hardrock Mining and Reclamation Act of 2007. 
   H.R. 2262 will put new royalty rates on production from hardrock mining. For the other side, of course, royalty rates is a fun, new catchword meaning taxes. But, unlike the coal and petroleum industry who are taxed on production of product, H.R. 2262 will place the tax on the amount of material extracted. For example, if ``Joe Voter Mining'' moves 1 cubic yard of rock weighing in the neighborhood of 800 pounds to retrieve \1/10\th or 1 ounce of gold, Joe would not be taxed on the gold recovered, but on the amount of rock moved. By raising taxes like this, the bill will cripple American production. 
   Since the 110th Congress convened, the Pelosi-led majority has been talking about the need for ``renewable'' energy. 
   The energy bills, that were rammed through the House and put large tax increases on the oil and natural gas industries placed a large emphasis on renewable energy; wind and solar. So why would this bill punish renewable energy? 
   Now, western Iowa does not have a hardrock mining industry. Thankfully for our farmers, we don't have much hardrock in western Iowa. But what we do have is large-scale production of renewable energy. The Fifth District of Iowa is the leader in production of BTU's of renewable energy: ethanol, biodiesel, and wind. However, this bill will put a cramp on further production of renewable energy. I want to let my colleagues on the other side of the aisle in on a little secret, those ethanol and biodiesel plants require steel and copper. Those wind chargers that produce clean, renewable electricity from the air sit on large steel columns. The electricity that is produced by wind chargers and solar panels is transported via copper wires. 
   Mr. Chairman, steel and copper come from the ground. So I want to try and figure out the Democrat logic. They are going to tax the raw resources that are used by the renewable industry to make a product the Democrats want to see more of? That doesn't sound like sound logic to me. I would just hope that what my Democrat colleagues realize is that which you tax, you get less of. If they want less renewable energy, then taxing the resources used in its production is a sure way to make that happen. 
   Mr. Chairman, today, oil is over $90 a barrel and natural gas is over $8 per million cubic feet because of Democrat energy policies. And in an absurd response, the Democrats aim to crush the renewable industry by raising the rates on the materials the renewable energy industry is built on. I urge my colleagues to oppose H.R. 2262, the Hardrock Mining and Reclamation Act of 2007. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (FREE ENTERPRISE CAPITALISM -- (House of Representatives - November 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, it's a privilege to be recognized to address you and the House of Representatives and the people of the country who listen in on these types of discussions. 
   As I listened in on the gentlelady's remarks on the global war on terror, particularly in Iraq, and I hear the words ``war of choice,'' I actually expect that the historians will write it differently. And you can never write history from a contemporary perspective. That has to be done a generation or so down the line so you can see how things actually unfold. 
   When I look back at the time when this country was attacked, we've been attacked any number of times for the 18 previous years; but September 11, 2001, is a date that we will always remember. And as the President made his decisions, as he rose up and really took on a leadership mantle here, he was the Commander in Chief, but he stepped up to leadership on that day and on the days subsequent to September 11, and he had to make some tough decisions. One of them was to engage in combat in Afghanistan. 
   He ordered troops within a little more than 30 days into battle. And everyone said you can't be successful in Afghanistan; no one in history has been successful in Afghanistan. And, in fact, history is replete with the examples of the outside military operations that have gone into Afghanistan and failed. I can't tell you from this point, Mr. Speaker, whether history will write that Afghanistan is a resounding success, but the contemporary analysis at this point is that it is a resounding success. 
   As I listen to the gentlelady talk about a war of choice, I would submit that the President had no choice. He had no choice. We had been attacked. Remember, all the planes were grounded. We didn't know if there were more in the air, if they were coming to more places. The one that went to the ground in Pennsylvania may well have been targeted to the White House or this very Capitol Building that we are in. 
   And all the intelligence in the world concurred on one thing, that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction in significant quantities. And the gentlelady that would submit otherwise would have been one of the first to raise an objection if the President would have ordered troops into battle in Iraq without proper protection from chemical weapons, for example. No one believed otherwise, not Hillary Clinton, not the United Nations, not the Israelis, not the French, not the Russians, not the CIA, and not George Tenet. 
   So to take us back through this, there was a time and a moment in history where decisions had to be made within that context, within the context of what did we know at the time, what did we believe at the time, and what were the consequences and what were the alternatives. 
   Now, the alternative that the President had to be considering, and I don't believe that he has ever spoken about this publicly, and I'm not implying that he has spoken to me about it privately, but the alternative that the President had to consider was, if I do not take action, then what? What will be the response of the American people if we are attacked again and I sit on my hands, like happened in the aftermath of the attack on the USS Cole or the U.S. embassies in Africa or the circumstances within Mogadishu when we retreated and gave up that piece of ground and sent a message to the terrorists that we didn't have the resolve? What would have been the consequence? 
   What if the United States had been attacked again, not on September 11, 2001, but maybe September 11, 2003, and we hadn't taken action? What if those resources had come out of, and, in fact, some of the resources were coming out of Iraq that were targeted against us, what if America had lives that had been lost in significant numbers? What then would the gentlelady say? What then would the critics to the President say? 
   They would say he didn't take action when he should have. They would say he should have gone into Iraq. But he had to deal with the information he knew when he knew it. And the decision that was made, as historians will evaluate, I believe, will be that the President didn't really have a choice. And this Congress endorsed that decision with a vote here on the floor of Congress in the House of Representatives and in the Senate that was the authorization to use military force. 
   So we need to stand behind our decisions here as well as stand behind the Commander in Chief. And I would submit that the advocacy for an immediate pullout of Iraq, that's actually a tired, threadbare argument today. It's been a threadbare argument for a long time, but it was illuminated pretty well when General Petraeus came to this Congress in those days, September 12, 13 or 14 of September, when he delivered his report to the House of Representatives and the following day delivered his report to the United States Senate. 
   And, Mr. Speaker, as we saw the things that transpired in Iraq at the beginning of the surge, and I recall being there last Thanksgiving and trying to go into al Anbar province, trying to get into places like Ramadi and Fallujah, and I couldn't go because it was too dangerous, the stability was not there, the marines had written off Anbar province. The map was colored all red. The map of the tribal zones that actually are the local government in Iraq was colored all red, red being the color that denotes al Qaeda; al Qaeda being in control of and having the dominant influence in those tribal zones in Anbar province. So I couldn't go into Anbar, couldn't go to Fallujah, couldn't go to Ramadi, couldn't go to a number of those other communities. 
   That was last Thanksgiving. However, the last part of July this year I did go. I went into Ramadi and walked the streets of Ramadi. That's where they had the 5K run here I think just yesterday or maybe the day before. Hundreds and hundreds, in fact, thousands of people in the street out there doing a recreational 5K run, something that you would only see people running in Iraq if they're running from an explosion or a bullet or towards where that bullet or explosion detonated. But today, there is recreational running going on over there in a place like Ramadi, where it has been the center of death. And those tribal zones in al Anbar province that were all colored red now on the map are all colored green, supportive of U.S. coalition and Iraqi defense forces. 
   And I would point out that the liberation, the freeing, the driving of al Qaeda out of Ramadi was done with 85 percent Iraqi defense forces, 15 percent U.S. coalition forces. The Iraqis are more than fighting side by side. They're leading in this battle in many of the places over there in Iraq. And you have seen, also, American casualties down to the lowest levels we've had in over a year. And you're seeing Iraqi civilian casualties down to a level that is less than half of what it was a year ago. 
   Now, none of these are good circumstances for permanent conditions, but this is a good direction and a good trend. And the agreement that was reached in Anbar province where the sheiks came around on our side and said we're going to throw our lot with you, we're going to drive out al Qaeda, what they really said was, We want to kill al Qaeda with you. It wasn't some politically correct statement like, We would like to join with you to try to improve the stability or security here in our region. They said, We want to kill al Qaeda with you. 
   And they actually have a reconciliation plan. Some of those young men over there have been taking money from al Qaeda and setting roadside bombs, detonating roadside bombs or attacking Americans, U.S. coalition troops or Iraqis. They've been paid for; they've been mercenaries for al Qaeda. And some of them are there because they philosophically think it's the right thing to do, too. But the reconciliation plan is this, if you have attacked our side and you want to come forward and make a confession, if you're not standing there with blood on your hands and we can work this thing out, then you make a public declaration as a former al Qaeda supporter that you're going to support the Iraqi defense force, the Government of Iraq, U.S. coalition forces, and fight on our side.     
   If you make that pledge, and by the way, it is a public pledge and your name goes up on a bulletin board, then they take you back in. So it is possible to switch sides. It is possible to come over. And many are coming over to our side. You have to be wondering, Mr. Speaker, then, what are the consequences for one who doesn't keep their word to fight against al Qaeda, to stand on the side of the Iraqi people, the side of U.S. Coalition Forces? I asked that question over there in the briefing. They answered, the penalty is death. They are serious. This is serious business. This is life and death for thousands of people. It is also life and death for a number of nations. 
   That is a crucible in the world right now where if this place is allowed to melt down, if we pulled out of there, as the gentlewoman recommended, did a pullout of this conflict that is going on, then you look at the void that would be created. Nature abhors a vacuum. Power abhors a vacuum. The struggle there has been a power struggle. Yes, there are different competing philosophies that have lined up in different political spheres. At one time I could list you off about seven different power centers within Iraq that are competing for power. But we don't. We have the Shias and the Sunnis. We have the Badr brigades, and we have Moqtada al-Sadr's JAM brigade, and some that are just plain criminals. And you have the former Baathists, and again the Shias and Sunnis of different stripes, the different allegiances that come out of all of that, they were all competing for power. That is sorting itself out now. 
   As this power struggle works its way through, as the sheiks line up and decide they are going to cast their lot with the Iraqi nation, the Iraqi Government and the Iraqi people, as well as the U.S. coalition forces, they lined this up. They have done this same kind of thing in Taji in the north. They have done this in the south in Baghdad, and made their agreements where the map of that country today is far more green with very little red in it where al Qaeda has an influence. Some of those places where they have an influence is there because they just simply, the influence is there because al Qaeda has been driven out of some of the other regions and they had to go somewhere, didn't leave the country. 
   There is reason for optimism. And there always should be cautious optimism when it comes to war. But the other side has reason for pessimism. They have reason to believe that they have been driven out of al-Anbar province. And they have been driven out of many areas of Iraq. The country is safer today than it was a year ago. Much of the country isn't as dangerous as we are lead to believe that it is. I listened to the gentleman from California, Mr. Hunter's remarks earlier about some State Department personnel who decided they don't want to go to Iraq because it is too dangerous. Yes, there is danger there, but our military is facing that every day. And they are re-upping in greater numbers than ever imagined. That is why we can keep our recruitment up, because they believe in the mission. 
   As DUNCAN HUNTER said, when you go to Bethesda or Walter Reed or Landstuhl in Germany and visit our brave wounded there, those that have maybe lost a limb, those that are in a long recovery process, those that may have had a pretty large chunk of shrapnel taken out of them, they want to get back with their unit. They want to finish their mission. Some have gone back with a prosthetic in place of a limb. That is real, true courage and patriotism. These are the people that say, I am a volunteer. I volunteered for this branch of the military at this time. I volunteered for this mission or at least I knew there was a high likelihood I would be deployed to this mission. I want to complete my mission because it is important. It is important for the freedom and the safety of the American people. It is important for freedom in the world. It is important for the dynamics that are taking place in that part of the world today where they realize that if the Iranians are allowed to continue their proxy war against the United States and flow their power over into Iraq, that would fill in the vacuum if we would do as the gentlewoman recommended and immediately pull out. The Iranians would sit astraddle of 42.6 percent of the world's export oil supply. That is not just the valve on the oil; that is the valve on the world's economy. They could control our economy by deciding what comes in and out of the Straits of Hormuz. 
   We understand that. That was an issue back in 1979 when the U.S. fleet was making sure the straits were kept open. So I want to emphasize that this direction of this battlefield of Iraq, which is a battlefield in the global war on terror, is going in a good direction. If we were to turn our back on all that sacrifice today, I don't know how I would look in the eye of the family members who have lost a son or a daughter over there who tell me, It is different now. The soil in Iraq is sanctified by the blood of my son; that being a son of a gentleman from California whose first name is John, whose last name I have forgotten. He said, You can't pull out now. That soil is sanctified by his blood. 
   I will stand with them. They are volunteers. The President had to make a decision. He made that decision. This Congress made the same decision, and we ought to have the courage of our convictions and stick by our decision instead of seeking to undermine that effort. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, I think that addresses the issue of the previous speaker. I have a couple other subject matters that I wanted to bring up here in the time that I have. One of them is that this Congress is busily overspending again. It has been a constant for a long time. There is something endemic within the electoral process that there are people that believe they need to purchase votes with taxpayer dollars. So they want the programs for their district. 
   Well, I think the measure of these programs should be measured on a higher standard than what they do for political gain. I think when you look at the earmark system that is here and the larger dollars that go to people that have the seniority, they are on the Appropriations Committee, Republicans or Democrats, you can chart that out and see where the money goes. It goes to the people that are sitting in a position here to broker it into their districts. Now, I have argued many times that there isn't a single constituent in their district that deserves any more representation than the constituents in my district. We each represent 600-some thousand people. I am not quite ready to go the path that we distribute earmarks equally to all population bases in the country. I think they need to be evaluated. I think they need to have sunlight on them. I think the American people have to have an opportunity to look at the spending that goes on in this Congress and evaluate it on a line item by line item basis. 
   When I first came to the Congress 5 years ago, one of the first big bills to come to me to make a decision on was the 3,600-page omnibus spending bill. I don't know how tall 3,600 pages are, but I imagine it is up there pretty high. We tried to get that information to find out what was in it because we naively thought we were going to analyze the information that was in that bill and the spending that was in that 3,600-page omnibus spending bill. So it finally became available to download it off the Internet. And we began downloading it off, I imagine it was a secure connection over in my office over here in Longworth. As we downloaded it a page at a time, the 3,600th page, the last page became 
   available 20 minutes before the bill was brought up for a final vote on the floor of this Congress. Twenty minutes to evaluate 3,600 pages. Now, that is a daunting task, Mr. Speaker. In fact, it is an impossibility. If I had one person assigned to each page that had a degree in law that could analyze it, I still couldn't get this sorted through and get the response back in 20 minutes. I know there were others who had a head start on this ahead of me. Sometimes you have to take that leap of faith. But the functionality of 20 minutes to analyze a piece of legislation is not the way to do business. And that 20 minutes to analyze what is in it, think, Mr. Speaker, how difficult it is to go through 3,600 pages and find out what is not in it. A far more difficult thing. 
   Yet, here we in this Congress have worked for a long time to grant the President a line item veto. So the  President can look at 3,600 pages of appropriations that is hundreds of billions of dollars and go down through that with his ink pen and mark a line through there and say, I don't like this one, I don't like this one, I don't like this one. Now, I think it is appropriate for a President to have that power. The court doesn't necessarily agree with that. I do. And yet to put that responsibility on the President and not demand it for this Congress I think is ducking a duty and responsibility that we have as Members of Congress. 
   Who in the public, Mr. Speaker, would believe that Congress is just simply powerless to bring up line item votes on the appropriations that we spend in here that, who would understand the fact that the rules were set up in such a way that we don't vote up or down each line item in there. We don't vote up or down each earmark that is in the legislation. We package that up and push it along and essentially vote on it en bloc. Yes, I know those appropriations bills come to the floor under an open rule, at least they generally start under an open rule. But if you turn around once and blink twice, there is a unanimous consent agreement, and then it gets packaged up and it goes under a unanimous consent rule that prohibits the Members from bringing amendments to the legislation that is in front of us, let alone to a line item strike. So, I believe that we should be accountable and responsible for every line in every piece of legislation, whether it is policy or whether it is appropriations. 
   But on the appropriations, this Congress should have its own line item veto. With that in mind, I have dug through the rules, I have looked at the statutes, and I can figure a way that we can, in very simple language, that we can have a line item veto that is imposed upon this Congress so we have to accept the responsibility that we are charged with constitutionally. 
   It works like this. It is pretty simple. It is once every quarter, once every 3 months, under an open rule, there would be a bill allowed in order on the floor, a shell bill, if you will, Mr. Speaker, that was under an open rule that would allow any Member to come to the floor and offer an amendment to strike out spending. This is spending that would have already arrived at the President's desk, gotten his signature on it, but spending that hadn't yet been spent. So the appropriations that are in the chute, so to speak, that hadn't been turned out into the expense arena would be the appropriations that we would have a shot at, once a quarter, once every 3 months. 
   So let's just play this through the mind's eye, Mr. Speaker. Let's say it is the first day of the quarter and the leaders, neither one of them come to the floor to offer the bill that would be the line item cut act bill, which, by the way, that is the name of my bill, the Cut Act, the cut unnecessary tab bill, and any Member can stand up and say, Mr. Speaker, I have a bill at the desk, and it is in order under the rule. And then the result would be Members would come pouring to the floor with their amendments. One of them would be the bridge to nowhere. One of them would probably be the cowgirl hall of fame, and I get off into some of these things that I don't want to say into the Congressional Record, but they are there. They are line items we have appropriated, some of the earmarks we have appropriated that are downright embarrassing. And those line items would be brought to this floor one bill at a time, or maybe in packages, and we can vote them up or down. We can have a recorded vote on every single line item in an appropriations bill. We could have a recorded vote on every earmark. That would mean that every Member of Congress would be responsible for everything that is in the legislation. We can no longer go home and say, I know I voted for that silly thing but I had to because I needed to have this piece of appropriations that was essential to your district. That money that is going to be spent in your backyard was in the same bill, so I had to vote for the cowgirl's hall of fame or a bridge to nowhere. 
   Now, this structure of these rules doesn't allow for responsible appropriation. The Cut Act provides for responsible appropriations and it reaches out to the cyberspace modern technological world that we have, because it reaches out and recognizes that we have bloggers out there. We have people that now have instant Internet access to the legislation that we pass, the appropriation bills that we have. I trust the American people to be drilling down into these line items and bringing out those line items that are overspending, that are outrageously blowing the budget, and be able to make an issue of them, carry those issues to us. And we can write them in the form of amendments and bring them to the floor once a quarter and do an act of the Cut Act so we can strike those line items out and be responsible for every single line item in the budget. 
   I think that does a lot more for the responsibility of this Congress, a lot more to control out-of-control spending. I think it does a lot more for us to step up to our constitutional duties and all the discussions that we have had about how we might define earmarks, because everybody has a different definition of earmarks. But when you put it out here on the floor for a vote, it is ``yes'' or it is ``no.'' It is a green light or it is a red light, Mr. Speaker. And there is no equivocating on it, unless you want to vote ``present,'' which doesn't work so well in an appropriation bill.     
   I have introduced the CUT Act. The bill number is H. Res. 776, the Cut the Unnecessary Tab resolution. It's something that has, at least right now, the support of, in the beginning, 33 Members of Congress. There will be more. I trust they are going to stand up. We are going to ask at some point the Speaker to endorse the kind of a program that will make every Member of Congress responsible for every single line item in the entire appropriations process. 
   By the way, as I look at this appropriations process, Mr. Speaker, I will submit that we have got to move this system along. Yes, we have passed some appropriation bills here in the House, and we have moved that along pretty well. They are stuck over in the Senate. As I heard from the President last week, there hasn't been a time in history that Congress has delayed so long in getting the appropriations bills to the President's desk. Not one appropriations bill has yet arrived at the President's desk for this fiscal year. 
   This Congress gaveled in, as I recall, the third day of January 2007. Not one bill has made it from the House, through the Senate, back through conference committee for final passage, and to the White House, to the President's desk for signature. Not one. Not one appropriations bill. There have been a number of others that have. 
   This puts us in a situation where there is an impending train wreck. This impending train wreck is this: the longer it goes, the closer we get to running out of funds to keep this government running, the closer it comes to the day we will see another 3,600-page omnibus spending bill stacked up in the Senate, stacked up and brought over here and dropped on our desk, well, sent to us by Internet, and be asked to vote again up or down on something we can't measure the contents of. 
   Again, the political games begin, because that 3,600-page bill that I saw the last time, and it may be bigger or smaller than that, is like a great big accordion. It can have anything in it. Sometimes the staff in the middle of the night puts language in the bill that no Member directed. It's just there. They are just confident that the Member they work for thinks it's a good idea. We don't have a way of knowing. 
   It comes to the floor; we get a few minutes to debate it, not very many minutes to evaluate it. Even if we did, there's not time to debate all the components of a piece of legislation like that. That is why we have a subcommittee process, the full committee process, the floor debate. That is why we have a bicameral legislature, so it can go over to the Senate and they can do the same thing, the subcommittee, the full committee, the committee, the floor action, and then bring it together in a conference committee. While all this is going on, the public is supposed to be looking at this. We need to ask you for your help out there in America so you can point your fingers back at us. 
   Mr. Speaker, I point this out because there are 300 million people in America, and it's a huge budget, and the  budget approaches $3 trillion. It's more than the people that we have here in Congress can drag our fine-tooth comb through and do as good a job as we can do when we elicit the help of the American people. 
   So that is where I want to go with this. I want to pass the CUT Act, I want to pass H. Res. 776, I want to see a bill, a shell bill come to the floor of the House of Representatives, and then I want to see the Members come down with their amendments and say, I don't like this spending. This is outrageous. We don't need it. I want to put it up for a stand-alone vote, ask for a recorded vote on it. 
   After awhile, we will have a list of those egregious line items, earmarks and then just plain overspending that aren't earmarks that can be gleaned out of the bill. We will be responsible for everything. That is the kind of Congress we need to have, that is the kind of Congress we need to become, that is the kind of Congress that was envisioned by our Founders, the kind of Congress I believe we were, and the kind of Congress I believe we need to be again. That, Mr. Speaker, is my statement tonight on fiscal responsibility. 
   There's another piece of subject matter that I wanted to take up before the body and that is this renewable energy issue, the energy issue altogether, and I should broaden this picture out. We have worked the last few years to try to provide more refineries. We have tried to drill offshore in the Outer Continental Shelf where there are 406 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Ninety percent of the cost of fertilizer is the natural gas that is feedstock for the nitrogen; 90 percent of the cost. Yet we make it harder instead of easier for natural gas to become available here in the United States. It comes off the market, not on the market. 
   We are watching the liquefied natural gas plants being built in places like Venezuela so they can ship their natural gas to us across the Caribbean, here in the United States, sailing right over the top of huge natural gas reserves that we are not able to drill into. We are watching the liquefied natural gas come across from the Middle East with the same kind of a thing. 
   There are tremendous reserves offshore in the United States, and it's very difficult to find a place to drill that doesn't have some kind of a regulation that prohibits it. That is the struggle that has gone on in this Congress for a number of years, drilling the Outer Continental Shelf. I believe we ought to drill there for natural gas, and I believe we should drill there for crude oil as well. Those are our resources. 
   Some will say, Well, wouldn't you want to conserve those resources? Why would we use them all up? One thing is that as the cost goes up, the exploration and the cost to bring this to the market becomes more viable economically. So oil that might have been out of reach, gas that might have been out of reach for the dollars one can get out of it is not out of reach today. We are always discovering more and more. 
   Additionally, even if it were a zero sum game, even if there was a limited number of oil and gas underneath the territory of the United States, even if that were limited, we also believe that we will get to the point where we replace these energy sources, and we are moving in that direction. 
   So we should keep this Nation as competitive as possible. That means use the resources that we have and reduce and get to that day when we can end dependency on Middle Eastern oil. That means drilling ANWAR, drilling the Outer Continental Shelf. That sounds probably, Mr. Speaker, that I am just for drilling. The real answer is this: it's a lot bigger picture and a lot more difficult a puzzle. The answer is we have so many BTUs out there today in the market. Let's say this is the energy pie. The answer is we have to grow the size of the energy pie. Not this many overall BTUs in the market for all kinds of energy, but this many. When you think about the energy pie, the size of the slices can be defined with so much for gas, so much for diesel out of crude oil, so much for propane, so much for natural gas, and this all adds to the overall BTUs. Some of it is nuclear, some of it is hydroelectric, some is solar, some is wind, some is coal. You add up all these pieces of this energy pie. 
   There's another slice of that pie that is also a component of the overall 360-degree pie and that's the conservation component. We need all of those components to solve the problem in this country, this problem of economic energy. Energy affects everything we have, everything we are. If you buy a cup of coffee, it takes so much fuel to get that coffee harvested, transported here to the United States, processed, delivered, marketed. You can put a little gas in the car to go to the store and drive back home. There's an energy component to everything we buy. Therefore, when costs of energy are high, it also raises the cost of everything that we have. 
   For our Nation to be competitive, we need economic goods and services. They need to be competitive with the rest of the world. We can do that if our energy prices are low and they are comparatively low and competitively low. I submit we grow the size of the energy pie and we put more BTUs on the market, we provide more of our own crude oil that we can drill for in places like ANWAR and in places offshore, like the Outer Continental Shelf. 
   Then, in addition to that, we open up more of our ethanol production, more of our biodiesel production, the corn-based ethanol, the cellulosic ethanol, the biodiesel that comes from soybeans and other kinds of plant oil and animal fats. We put that altogether. And expansion of the wind generation of electricity is also significant. 
   The more BTUs we put on the market, the more supply there is. And we know this is supply and demand. Being a function of supply and demand, it will either drive down the price of overall energy, or it will slow the growth in the increase in the overall energy. 
   I expect that there is going to be some other discussion about the availability of crude oil and ethanol, and I will submit that there are some components here that are important facts for the public to understand, Mr. Speaker. 
   As I look at the reports that have come out of places like Cornell and UC Berkeley, and you see numbers down there that say that it takes something like seven times the energy to produce a gallon of ethanol than you get out of it in BTUs, we have had some people that are scientists that seem to be on some kind of endowment to try to undermine the efficiency of the ethanol argument. I have been in the middle of this ethanol debate for a long, long time; and I would suggest it goes back 25 or maybe 30 years. I would argue that if there is a BTU deficit, it would have collapsed on its own by now. 
   But there are numbers out there that are not based on science. They are simply numbers that are produced by people that oppose renewable fuels ethanol. This is the kind of data that has been in the Wall Street Journal and New York Times of late. I don't know what their motive is, but the arguments look to me like they are contrived arguments. Here are some facts that I just had delivered to me, and it works out like this: 
   A gallon of ethanol is 76,100 BTUs, and a gallon of E-10 is 111,836 BTUs. The gallons of diesel fuel and biodiesel are comparable. But if you are going to get one BTU out of ethanol, it takes .67 BTUs to produce it. If you are going to get one BTU out of crude oil for gasoline, it takes 1.3 BTUs to produce it. So in these numbers, it takes more energy to crack the equivalent BTUs of a gallon of gasoline out of a barrel of crude oil once it arrives at the refinery than it does to produce the same BTUs in ethanol once the bushel of corn arrives at the ethanol plant. 
   The numbers that have been produced otherwise by the folks in places like Berkeley, I was on Iowa State's campus here some months ago and talking to an undergraduate student who began to quote those numbers from Berkeley to me. She is going to school at Iowa State. 
   I said, Why did you go to Berkeley to get your data on ethanol? She said, That was the report I read. That is the one I studied. I said, You are right here at Iowa State University. We are the number one State producing ethanol in America. The data you are looking for is right here under your nose. Is anyone teaching you critical thinking here on this campus? 
   Apparently not. 
   So another piece is the 2006 LDP and CCP, the countercyclical payments, for corn were $6.8 billion. That will be the  other argument, that the dollars that go into the farm program and the dollars that go into the ethanol subsidy are this huge cost to taxpayers. That is the Wall Street Journal's position. 
   If you look at the real numbers, if you accept the idea that we have a farm program and it has been here since FDR, and I don't know if I would have voted for that if I had been here since FDR, but it is here, and if it has been here this long, it is unlikely it is going to go anywhere. 
   So if we accept the idea that there is a farm program, and we look at how the countercyclical payments and the loan deficiency payments actually function, in that if you have high markets there is less demand for subsidy, in fact, it has taken out all the demand for those subsidies because we have had high demand for those grains. And this is just using the corn calculation, not the increase in our commodities that have been there in record prices for soybeans and for wheat and some of the other commodities that have been increased in their value because there has been more demand for corn acres and because now we have more corn acres and we raised the largest corn crop we have ever had, 13.3 billion bushels of corn. 
   Those payments, though, for 2006 were $6.8 billion. Then the blenders credit is a component that we put in place so we could attract the capital to build the infrastructure in order to be able to produce the gallons of ethanol that we can use to blend our ethanol into our gasoline, at a 10 percent blend, for those folks that don't see that every day. 
   The blenders credit is 51 cents a gallon. When you calculate that across the gallons that were sold this year, that comes to about $3 billion. When you do the math on that, the $6.8 billion in subsidies and the $3 billion in blenders credit, we have gone from $6.8 billion in subsidies on the loan deficiency payment and the countercyclical payment down to zero. That is $6.8 in savings. We spent $3 billion on the blenders credit so that we put an incentive in place to build the ethanol production facilities. That is a net savings of $3.8 billion just in the last year. 
   Now, I will admit that number doesn't extrapolate back across 2005 as well as it does 2006 or 2004 or 2003 or on back, but we are building an infrastructure and investing in that infrastructure; and we are building a capability to replace Middle Eastern oil, to some degree, with ethanol.     
   I carry this equation out, 13.3 billion bushels of corn this year, we will easily be at 15 billion bushels of corn. Our target was by 2012, we will make it before then. This year tells us we will make it before then. 
   With 15 billion bushels of corn and if we only used a third of that corn to produce ethanol at 3 gallons a bushel, and we are right at that threshold, 2.9-something, so that is producing 15 billion gallons of ethanol. And we are burning today about 142 billion gallons of gasoline. 
   You can see we get to the point where we reach the 10 percent blend across this country. Actually, we are up to that threshold in a lot of places today, but we can't distribute well enough to be able to distribute the ethanol that we are producing within a 10 percent limit. We need to increase the limit. But 10 percent of the gasoline is about what we can produce with the corn that we can produce in this country. That is why the push to go to cellulosic. 
   I can submit here we can reach the 15 billion bushels. With a third of that, we can produce 15 billion gallons of ethanol. With that, we can replace approximately 10 percent of the gasoline we are currently burning in this country. We can go up with that, but if we open this up with cellulosic, as came out in the President's State of the Union address, I believe the most recent one, then we can arrive at a substantial portion of this energy pie that is renewable fuels ethanol. 
   And we add to that the biodiesel that comes from our soybeans and the animal fats and oil from other plants, and we have taken a segment, this energy pie, and a slice of that, and we set aside and say this will be renewable fuels ethanol, this will be renewable fuels biodiesel, and some more energy will be wind. And we build a lot of infrastructure for that. Wind energy works well. From my yard where I live in rural Kiron, I can step outside the hedgerow and look out to the horizon and I can see 17 wind chargers from my yard. They are surreal and they are environmentally friendly. Yes, it takes a tax credit, but we are building infrastructure to replace some of our energy production with renewables such as wind. 
   Another point raised is that producing ethanol takes too much water. Whatever the number was in the most recent publication, whether the Wall Street Journal or New York Times, it was a number that took my breath away. The order of magnitude of its, let me say, lack of indexing into my experience, we build a lot of ethanol plants in my district. 
   There may have been a day or there may be a day this fall when the Fifth Congressional District of Iowa is the number one in ethanol production for congressional districts in America. We are number one in biodiesel production. We rank in the top, at least in the top four, in wind generation of electricity. And I am very confident that the Fifth Congressional District of Iowa is the number one renewable energy district in America. 
   I believe I will be able to put the numbers together to demonstrate that we will be the first congressional district to power all of the energy needs for every home in the district all on renewables. I think we are there now. I just don't have the numbers quite together to say that definitively. But I think we are there now. 
   But the consumption of water to produce the ethanol, that number was outrageous in multiples of hundreds of gallons. So I went back to our people who are actually producing the ethanol, the ones who have to get the Department of Natural Resources' permit and meet the EPA standards and know how many gallons they are discharging and how much water they are pumping out of their wells in the ground to utilize production of ethanol. 
   Their numbers come out to be this: To produce a gallon of ethanol takes 2.8 gallons of water. To produce a gallon of gasoline out of a barrel of crude oil, and of course there is more than one gallon that comes out of there, but per gallon is 8 gallons of water. 
   So if you want to measure against the consumption of water to produce gasoline from crude oil compared to the number of gallons of water to produce ethanol out of corn, then you are looking at 8 gallons of water to 1 gallon of gasoline compared to 2.8 gallons of water to 1 gallon of ethanol. 
   By the way, we are reusing water. We are using gray water from the sanitaries out of some of our communities. And in particular, there is a new plant coming online at Shenandoah, Iowa, Green Plains, that will be using gray water from that community. We are conserving water, and it takes less water than it takes to produce the gasoline. 
   So even though there are arguments up and down on this, but the 51 percent blender's credit is the incentive to attract private investment capital. If we should lose even one penny of that blender's credit, what we will lose are millions and probably billions of dollars of private capital that is currently attracted into the production of ethanol, the building of ethanol production facilities. 
   When capital is no longer attracted, the momentum of this industry would be stalled and we would be sitting here with ethanol plants out in the plains within the heart of the corn belt, but not built out to the limits of the corn belt. 
   We would be sitting here also with biodiesel plants in the heart of the soybean belt but not out to the limits of the soybean belt, and we would have given up on renewable energies as even a partial substitute for Middle Eastern oil. 
   When I give you the math and lay out these costs in this fashion, I am not calculating in the cost of the military that it takes to be able to do what we can to provide some stability in the Middle East. But I will remind you, Mr. Speaker, that if the instability we have seen in places like Afghanistan were found in places like Saudi Arabia, you would see not the highest price for crude oil like we see today at $96 a barrel, the highest price we have ever seen, you would see it perhaps double  from there. You would see it north of $150 a barrel if the instability we have seen in places like Afghanistan, if there was that kind of instability in Saudi Arabia. 
   Because there is a kind of stability, because that supply hasn't been severely threatened, that is why we have taken an interest in that part of the world. 
   I will submit to every extent we can find an economic way to bring BTUs on the market that are our sources of energy, we should do that. Yes, there has to be a return on capital investment, and it needs to be reasonable and offset the interest. And to get things started and develop a technology, sometimes we have to have a blender's credit of 51 cents. Sometimes we have to have a 54-cent tariff on Brazilian ethanol coming into the United States. 
   They would like to have us loan them about $8 billion so they can double their ethanol production in Brazil and take off that 54-cent tariff so they can produce ethanol in Brazil and ship it here in the United States, but we would find ourselves dependent on Brazilian ethanol production when we have the crops, we have the climate, the know-how and the distribution system to do that here. 
   So the facts go back to, and I just would reiterate, this ethanol production and biodiesel production has saved the taxpayers billions of dollars in the last year. 
   We were spending $6.8 billion on crop subsidies on the farm program that goes back to FDR in the 1930s. That number for the LDPs and the counter-cyclical payments has gone essentially, I will say virtually, in the language used today, to zero. And the cost of the 51-cent blender's credit has been about $3 billion. That is a $3.8 billion savings off the farm bill because we have a renewable fuels program here. 
   And to the extent that we are moving towards a 10 percent blend across the Nation with our ethanol, and we will be to that functional, that is 10 percent less that is coming out of the Middle East. That frees up that much more of our freedoms to make these decisions. 
   The assault on renewable energy that is coming from some of those business places, I would like to see them answer some of these points that I have made. I don't believe that their positions are grounded with the information that comes from the folks that are actually producing the ethanol. 
   And there have been significant discussions about how quickly one gets a return on investment off ethanol plants. I will say there have been some very good returns that have taken place in the last 2, 3, 4 years. But that cash flow doesn't project out like that any more, Mr. Speaker. Even though we have seen some return on investments that one could measure in just a few short years, most calculate out to be longer than that, and it is harder to attract the capital, not easier, even though oil is at $96 and gas has gone over $3. The dynamics of this and the economics of this change significantly. 
   So I strongly support the blender's credit. I support keeping the tariff in place on Brazilian ethanol. I believe we need to build the infrastructure here in the United States and kick the ethanol production up to maxing out on the corn crop that we have and developing the enzymes and the technologies so we can produce ethanol out of the cellulosic. That will be a far more difficult task than producing the ethanol, because to handle grain, we have the infrastructure. We have the combines and the drying systems, the wagons and the trucks so we can take that grain out of the field and deliver it and store it and do so efficiently. Not so easily with the cellulosic. 
   We don't yet know what kind of crop is going to be the most efficient, how we might harvest, how we might store it or how we might transport it. But most of that cellulosic is in a form, whether it is corn or whether it is hay or whether it is switchgrass, sunflower stalks, whatever it is, there is a lot of air in cellulose which means it is large volumes and low tonnage. And low tonnage means there is a lot of freight involved in trying to get that product to a processing location. That would tell me we would have, if the cellulosic develops as it is envisioned, we will have more plants located in closer areas than you will see with ethanol because we won't be able to afford to truck that cellulosic as far as we can the corn or the soybean oil that goes into the biodiesel. 
   We will get there on energy, Mr. Speaker, but I want to reiterate, I believe we need to grow the size of the energy pie. We need to take that overall 360-degree picture of all of components of our energy, the ethanol and biodiesel and wind and nuclear and hydroelectric and clean-burning coal and all of the other components that we have, gasoline, propane, natural gas, solar, each one of those has a certain percentage of the overall. 
   Then another slice of that pie is energy conservation. That is insulation. That is high-mileage vehicles. All of these things need to be brought forward, and we can get where we need to go with energy. We cannot do that if this Congress is determined to raise the cost of energy. 
   And I will submit that any piece of legislation that has been brought to the floor of this Congress in the 2007 calendar year has all raised the cost of energy, not driven the cost of energy down. It has made the circumstances less stable, not more stable. It has made the investors step back and say, ``I don't think I want to invest'' rather than ``I can't wait to get invested in this because I believe I can get a return on my profit.'' 
   Mr. Speaker, let's face it, free enterprise capitalism has done more for the well-being of humanity than all of the missionaries who went to Africa. God bless them for going, and we need more missionaries to go to Africa. We need them to go everywhere. We need missionaries in this country. But free enterprise capitalism has provided the infrastructure. It has built the Golden Gate Bridge. It has built the interstates. It has built the military industrial complex. And it has developed our educational system. It has developed our pharmaceuticals and our medical services in this country and in many places around the world. 
   And if you point to something that is an improvement of the quality of life, I will point to a profit motive in there that has developed the ideas, the creativity, the inventions, that have brought about this improved standard of living that we have. 
   And if we think that because a company has made some money because they have invested capital and provided good inventions and infrastructure, they need a return on that investment. And for this Congress to decide somebody made some money and then they want to come back and do a windfall profits tax after the fact, one of those retroactive deals, one of those things that says, well, I really didn't mean it to, let's just say Exxon, for example, Chevron for another one, the leases that were reneged here off in the gulf coast when no one was going to be there holding the oil company's hands if they drilled dry holes.     
   I never heard Nancy Pelosi say, well, some company got a dry hole that cost a few million dollars; I think we ought to take some of that load off of them and send them a check from the taxpayers. They don't believe in that, but they believe in taking some of that money away when it's duly earned. 
   The risk capital that's out there is what drives the lower cost of energy that we have today that we wouldn't have if it weren't for that. 
   So we need to set up an honest business structure; and when we have leaseholdings, we need to sign those leases and say that's it, we've cut our deal. If you make 10 times the money we thought you were going to make, you also made 10 times the money your competition thought you were going to make or they would have bid against you and taken that over and raised the price. 
   I've spent my life in the contracting business, not much of it drilling oil, and not any oil came out of the hole I did get involved in. But I've bid a lot of projects as low bidder, and I recall having the owners come to me and say, you're making money on this job. Happens more than once, Mr. Speaker, but not once has anybody come to me and said, I see you're losing your shirt on this job, can we give you a little more money that will help you out? Never happens, but that's the philosophy that comes from that side of the aisle. 
   We see somebody making a little bit of money, let's take it away. Well, if I'm on the board of directors of a company that has Congress changing the  deal, I'm going to take some of that capital, and I'm going to invest it in another kind of a business where Congress isn't as likely to change the deal. 
   So when you raise the taxation after the fact and you change the leases and force them to be renegotiated, there will be less exploration dollars going in, which means we'll find less gas and less oil. There will be less on the market, and supply and demand still works in this country. If you have a little bit and a lot of people want it, it will be a high price; and a whole lot of something that not many people want, it'll be a low price. That's the case we have today with the energy prices. 
   This still is a global market, too. This $96 oil is out there, and that's the price, not because we set it at that. That's what competition sets the price of oil at. We need more of it on the market. We need more drilling. We need more transportation. 
   By the way, we need to build those pipelines down from Alberta where they have the tar sands. We have good neighbors to the north with more oil than they know what to do with up there, and they're happy to sell it to us. I'm happy to pipeline it down here and refine it in the United States and refine it up in the neighborhood where I live and distribute that to the rest of the country. That will hold the prices down, Mr. Speaker. 
   So the points that I came to this floor to make are two big ones. One is producing a gallon of BTUs out of ethanol, out of the equivalent to a gallon of gas, takes less energy than it does to crack a gallon of gas out of a barrel of crude oil. Let's just say that we set a barrel of crude oil up at the refinery in Texas and put your $96 price on that, by the way. That's what this barrel is worth in the open market, and you set a bushel of corn outside the ethanol plant in, let me say, Marcus, Iowa. 
   And what's it going to cost to get me a gallon's worth of BTUs? Let me see, a gallon of gasoline is 108,500 BTUs. What's it going to take to get 108,500 BTUs out of this barrel of crude oil, and how many BTUs is that? 1.3 times the amount you get out of it. Thirty percent more BTUs to crack it out than you get out of that gallon of gas, and it takes .67 for every BTU to take that gallon of ethanol that's going to be produced out of that bushel of corn that's sitting outside the plant at Marcus, Iowa. 
   So when you look at the difference, it can be argued that, yes, it takes energy to turn corn into ethanol, but it can't be argued that it doesn't take energy to turn crude oil into gasoline. And the facts come down to it takes less energy to produce the ethanol BTU equivalent than it does to produce the gasoline BTU equivalent, side by side, bushel of corn sitting at the gate of the ethanol plant in Little Sioux Corn Processors outside of Marcus, Iowa, versus the refinery down in Texas. 
   And what it really comes back to is we have to have energy put together and a kind of form that we can use it. We have to be able to transport it, we have to be able to handle it, we have to be able to convert it into heat or kinetic energy. And you can do that with a liquid. Ethanol is a liquid. Gasoline is a liquid. You can do it with a gas. 
   And I will submit that we have found a way to be able to produce billions of gallons of ethanol, and those numbers are going up; and if they ever level off and stop because this Congress made a turn against the renewable fuels industry, that would be a tragedy for our environment. It would be a tragedy for our economy, and it would cost the United States taxpayers if they were going to continue with the current deal that they have, with the farmers and the producers here in the United States, the numbers that I've given you, the $6.8 billion last year versus the zero dollars this year, compared to $3 billion in subsidy. Net savings on the two is $3.8 billion. 
   And with that, Mr. Speaker, thanks for recognizing me. I appreciate this privilege and honor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY PRODUCTION -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate being recognized this evening to address you here on the floor of the United States Representatives, the world's most deliberative body and the one that's supposed to be the most representative of people. 
   We are here tonight, a lot of Americans, yourself included and myself included, also, have heard from this group of gentlemen who have spent the last hour talking about energy. We are looking at gas prices that are $4.08, $4.10, $4.11. 
   We are looking at gas prices by my data that shows that the gas was $2.33 a gallon when Speaker Pelosi took the gavel here about the 3rd day in January of last year. We have watched gas go from $2.33 to $4.10 or $4.11. 
   That chart that I saw earlier that showed the gas prices and what they were when the Republicans took control of Congress and how we held that increase in gas prices down, but when the Speaker of the House took the position that we were going to have lower gas prices and an effective energy policy, we are still waiting. We are still wondering what that was. 
   I do know that there has been a lot of noise from this side of the aisle about windfall profit taxes. I do know there has been a lot of noise about looking into the speculators on the hedge funds, on the futures markets. There has been a lot of noise about alleging that oil and gas-generating producing companies, are dishonestly or deceptively making unjust profits, that Exxon has made $10 billion a quarter totaling $40 billion a year. People on your side of the aisle seem to they think that we should go back and slap an after-the-fact tax on companies that are pouring energy into this marketplace. 
   I remember, one of the more senior United States senators making a public statement here a couple of months ago, that 85 percent of the oil on our market actually comes from countries that are sovereign countries that have nationalized their oil industries. So the oil belongs to countries like Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Iran, countries where it's not private companies, but it's countries that own 85 percent of the oil that is imported into this country. 
   It's not the fault of Exxon, it's no fault of Chevron, it's not the fault of a lot of our good American companies that we have. It's a number of circumstances all put together, but the sovereign nations that have nationalized their oil industries, that are marketing it to us, have a lot bigger share of this. They can control and get together and do control, under OPEC, the supply of the oil. The demand is going to be in proportion to that that is necessary and in proportion to the price. Supply and demand is going to control the price of this oil. 
   Another component that is not discussed very much--and I don't know that it was mentioned in the previous hour--is our weak dollar. Our dollar has declined significantly in value, especially since about the 2003, 2004 era. The more the dollar declines, the more dollars it takes to buy oil from foreign countries. So if 85 percent of the oil that's available in this marketplace come from foreign countries, owned by foreign countries, and we have to send U.S. currency there in order to purchase that oil, and we get this imbalance of trade, this imbalance that is someplace in the neighborhood of $700 billion a year--not all of it oil by any means--the weak dollar contributes to the cost of our gas. 
   I don't want the public to lose sight that the weak dollar contributes to the high cost of all of our commodities here in this country. For example, if you do the calculation on what it would take to dial the value of our dollar back to what it was to shore up the value of the dollar to those values of 2003, 2004 era, that's about 35 percent of the purchasing power that has drifted away as the value of dollar declines. 
   We bring it back to that level in proportion to the commodities that we are looking at today. We would see about 35 percent come out of the price of gasoline. 
   Let me just say off the top of my head, my calculus would be been this, that if you have $4.10 gas and 35 percent of that is a weaker dollar, if we could shore up the value of the dollar, gas will get dialed back down to around maybe $2.65 to $2.70 in that area. I am for doing that, but in the meantime, while we are doing that, we also understand that the demand for fuel worldwide has gone up. 
   It stayed fairly flat here in the United States, hardly increased at all. But in China it has increased by a third, 32 percent increase in the demand for gasoline in China, for example. 
   It has gone up as well in India. We lose sight of the fact that the increase  in the imported gasoline for China, for this year, has gone up 2,000 percent this year if you annualize the numbers up to the last reporting date, which I think was maybe the end of May of this year. You set it up and annualize as running at a 2,000 percent increase in the amount of gas that the Chinese are importing. When they do that, that puts a lot of demand on our availability of gas to come into the United States. 
   We burn about 142 billions gallons of gasoline in this country. We produced last year about 9 billion gallons of ethanol to go in and supplement that overall gas consumption that we have. That has helped keep the price of gas down.     
   There has been a powerful argument. I should say it this way: It's an argument that has been made by powerful people, and it seems to be compelling to folks who aren't critical thinkers or who aren't willing to go back and gather some information themselves to analyze the situation. This argument is that using corn for ethanol has made food prices higher. 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, the world doesn't seem to have access to the balance of information. They go places like to the University of California-Berkeley or to Cornell University to get their information on ethanol. I would submit that, if you wanted to learn something about ethanol, if you wanted to learn something about corn-based ethanol, you ought to go to corn country where we actually make the stuff. We know a lot about it there. We've invested our capital in it for a number of years. We've come a long way, and we know a lot more about the cost of producing ethanol and what it takes to do that than does a scientist or a professor or someone with an agenda at the University of California-Berkeley. 
   It works like this: The study that was released by Berkeley and Cornell University made the statement that it takes more energy to produce ethanol than you get out of it. The gentleman from Maryland has been on the floor of this Congress a number of times to make his argument in agreement with them, and I consistently disagree. 
   I disagree for this reason, Mr. Speaker, and that is that the calculation of Berkeley and of Cornell University goes back and calculates all of the energy it takes, not just to raise the crop of corn--first, if it takes more energy to produce the ethanol than the energy you get out of it, you would think they'd be talking about how much energy it takes to convert corn into ethanol. They are not talking about how much energy it takes to convert corn into ethanol. When they say it takes more energy to produce ethanol than you get out of it, they're taking the energy that it takes to turn corn into ethanol and the energy it takes to go to the field to raise a crop of corn that gets converted into ethanol and the energy it takes to manufacture the tractor and the combine and the planter and the disc and the cultivator if you use it and the sprayer and, I presume, the truck to haul it to town. 
   I read through this 62- or 63-page report that analyzed and that added up all of the components of the energy that's required to produce a gallon of ethanol. When you get to the point where they're hauling iron ore out of the mine in Hibbing, Minnesota--they didn't specifically say that, but this gets stretched out to those limits, Mr. Speaker--and when you think that your imagination has gone as far as it possibly can and when the scientists who claim that their study proves that it takes more energy to produce ethanol than you get out of it, then I see in their study that they charge 4,000 calories, which represent X number of Btus, for each farmworker per day, that being, presumably, a reasonable diet to keep the farmworker with enough energy to be able to go out there and raise that crop of corn, which gets converted into energy. 
   Now, when they go so far as to add up the calories that the farmworker eats, I think we ought to know what kind of a study this is. When they go so far as to add up the energy that it takes to mine the ore and to sail it across Lake Superior and to turn it into cast-iron and steel, enough to convert all of the energy that it takes to paint the tractor and to haul it out to the farm and the energy it takes to put in the tank, I think you know that we're going to make those tractors anyway and that we're going to farm those fields anyway. 
   We've done that for a long time, and no one has gone back and charged the energy and has gotten the energy you got for the food you ate or has charged that against what it took to manufacture the tractor or the farm machine or the truck that it took to haul the grain. That is not a balanced proposal. 
   In arguing that it takes more energy to produce ethanol because it takes energy to produce the tractor that goes to the field and that it takes energy to feed the farmworker, if that's the logic that we're using, Mr. Speaker, then I'll submit this: The same logic needs to apply to crude oil and to turning crude oil into gasoline in the fashion that we have for decades. 
   It works like this: If you're going to charge the energy that it takes to make the tractor against the corn we converted into ethanol, then you also have to calculate the energy that it takes to manufacture the drill rig, to power the drill rig. You've got to charge the roughneckers on that oil rig 4,000 calories a day just like you do the farmworkers. 
   By the way, we're defending a lot of oil fields around the world because we have to have that oil for our national interests, and so we've got to have also all of the energy that it takes to cast the iron that is used in the anchor for the battleship and for the carrier and for the Humvees and for the bulletproof vests and for the M-16s, the F-4s and the F-16s and for all of the components that are necessary to keep our military in play in places in the world that are a long way from home. 
   By the way, if it takes 4,000 calories to pay a farmworker to sit on a tractor and ride in air conditioning through the field--and we've gotten to that technology, and I'm grateful for that--we ought to be able to provide at least 4,000 calories to the marine who has to go in and root out terrorists in Fallujah. 
   So, if you add all of that up, Mr. Speaker, I will submit that it takes a lot more energy to convert crude oil into gasoline than it does to convert corn into ethanol. Btu for Btu. That proposal, that approach, is not a logical one. It's not a rational approach. It is a specious and facetious report that seeks to undermine the credibility of ethanol. 
   So here is the real number. This is Argonne National Laboratory of Chicago. We'll start like this: 
   You have a barrel of crude oil sitting at the gates of the refinery in Texas, and you run that crude oil in, and you convert out of that a Btu of crude oil into gasoline--one British Thermal Unit. We'll be measuring our energy in Btus here tonight, Mr. Speaker. 
   When you take crude oil and convert it into energy and a Btu in the form of gasoline, that 1 Btu has already consumed 1.3 Btus just in converting the crude oil into gas. It takes a lot of energy to crack gas out of crude oil and to convert it into gasoline that we can use in our vehicles. 
   Now, with a barrel of crude oil at the refinery in Texas, to produce 1 Btu of energy, it has already consumed more than it is. It consumes 1.3 Btus for every Btu of energy in gasoline than it produces. 
   If you go to, let's just say, Iowa and you set a bushel of corn at the gates of the ethanol plant in Iowa and if you convert that corn into ethanol to get 1 Btu in the form of corn-based ethanol, it takes .67 Btus of energy. These are numbers that come from Argonne Lab in Chicago. 
   You can boil it down to this: It takes .67 Btus of energy to get 1 Btu out when you have corn at the ethanol plant, and it comes out in the form of ethanol. It takes 1.3 Btus to get gasoline out of crude oil, to get 1 Btu of gasoline out of crude oil. So equivalent: Btu to Btu, it takes just a shade less than twice as much energy to convert crude oil into gasoline as it does to convert 
   corn into ethanol. That's the laboratory fact, and we're getting better at it. Perhaps the honest answer today is that it's all the way up 2 to 1--twice as much energy to convert crude oil into gas as it takes to convert corn into ethanol. 
   So the energy component of this is the false argument for those people who side with Berkeley and with Cornell University. They cannot sustain that kind of argument in the laboratory with corn matched up against  crude oil. They can only make the argument if they add this thing up all the way to the iron ore, and that is a false comparison, but if they're going to make a false comparison, they need to make a corresponding false comparison and add up the energy that it takes to make the battleship, the carrier, the F-16, and all of that that it takes to defend the oil fields that send oil to us. 
   Now, with that being part of the logic, part of the argument is also that which comes out of Wall Street and out of The Wall Street Journal and out of the New York Times. It's funny. You know, the further away you get from a cornfield and the further away you get from an ethanol plant, the further away they get from the truth. Here are the things that we know in the heart of the renewable fuels country. 
   By the way, Mr. Speaker, I would submit to you that, as to the renewable fuels country that I represent, the western third of Iowa, 5, 6, 7 years ago, we didn't have a lot going on for a renewable fuels industry. Today in the 5th District of Iowa, in the western third of the State, when you add up the ethanol from corn and the biodiesel that comes from, let me say, animal fats and soybean oil mostly and when you add also to that the wind energy--those are all renewable energies--we produce more renewable energy than any other congressional district in America. We rank in ethanol production, in biodiesel production and in the wind generation of electricity. Those three items outstrip any other congressional district in America. So we know a little bit about renewable energy where I come from. 
   The concern, the argument, that comes from The Wall Street Journal and from the New York Times and from the east coast people who are as far away as you can get from the cornfields but who have no lack of self-confidence when it comes to this argument--and I'm happy to debate it with them, Mr. Speaker. In any form and at any time we can make this work, I'd happily stand up and take on all of the smartest people they can generate, but we're going to go back to facts when they debate with me. 
   It works like this: This corn that we've raised for years and years, this gift of the new world, actually, is hybrid corn that has been designed in the laboratories by good companies that help get us through droughts to increase the yield, having good seed corn companies that will go on record, that will say their design, their improved hybrids, will be increasing yields 3 to 4 percent per year as far out as one can predict. 
   When I was a kid, our corn was 80 bushel per acre. Now a pretty good crop is 200 bushel per acre. They think that we're going to see a 3 to 4 percent increase per year until corn goes to 300 bushel per acre. So think of that difference, Mr. Speaker. From the time I was a little guy, growing up, 80-bushel corn was an okay crop. 100 bushel corn was a bin buster crop. We've gone past 200 bushel today and are looking on our way to 300 bushel per acre. 
   That's because we're getting a lot better at the things we're doing. We've got better hybrids to work with. We're placing our fertilizer more precisely. We've got better wheat control. We've got some GMOs. We have roundup-ready corn and roundup-ready soybeans. A lot of design and engineering has gone into these crops that has increased their yield and has provided for the genetic resistance to pests and also to the resistance of certain herbicides so that we can kill the weeds, so that we can grow the crops and so that we can do so in an environmentally friendly fashion. It's better for our water. It's better for our air. It just isn't so good for bugs, and it isn't so good for weeds. 
   We do those things with increased corn production and with increased soybean production in our part of the country. Yet we're faced with this argument that comes out of a long ways distance from the cornfield, which is Wall Street, which says, well, food versus fuel is really the argument, that we're taking food and we're converting it to fuel, and for that reason, food prices are going up. 
   Well, first of all, we have for millennia--for thousands and thousands of years--since the first real farmer planted a crop--and I'll suggest that that probably was a cavewoman and not a caveman. A caveman was likely out, doing hunting and gathering. A cavewoman must have recognized that some of those seeds that got dumped outside the cave predicted what was going to grow there. So she said why don't I just save some of these seeds and plant them in the ground. Then maybe I'll be able to actually put my own crop in. 
   When they started to do that, that was the beginning of agriculture, and from there on out, it has always been about food and fiber. From the beginning of production agriculture or of subsistence agriculture, it has been about food and fiber. You raised the food up out of the crops, and the fiber that came from that was used for rope, for clothing, for bedding, for things of that nature. So that has gone on for thousands of years. We raised crops for food. We raised crops for fiber. Of course, one of those fiber crops would be cotton. 
   Yet, today, we've taken it to another level. We've got food, fiber and fuel. The three F's of agriculture today are food, fiber and fuel. Food versus fuel is not the argument they would have you believe is coming out of Wall Street, and it works like this: For the 2007 crop, during that period of time, food inflated--appreciated in cost--by 4.9 percent. Energy prices went up 18 percent. As to the 4.9 percent of that food, much of the cost of the food's going up is the energy that it takes to deliver it and to process it. Inflation comes because we know that high energy costs go into everything that we have and into every part of our economy. It takes energy to do everything. It takes energy to produce. It takes energy to deliver. It takes energy to process. So, as those costs go up, so does the cost of food go up 18 percent. 
   So the wizards of Wall Street say, well, food went up, so therefore, the cost of that is because, if we'd had those 3.2 billion bushels of corn into the food market, that would have been a lot of corn on somebody's plate to eat, and it would have kept the food prices down. 
   Well, the first thing is that's all field corn, and I don't know anybody who sits down to a plateful and loves it; although, if you catch it just right, you can eat it on the cob, and it's not so bad. After that, it's livestock feed, and yes, we process that corn into 300 different products or so. That's pretty specialized processing for some of the things. Corn oil, sweetener, things like that, and corn starch are some of the things we do. As to those forks and knives, if you put them in your coffee down in the Longworth cafeteria and they melt and go rubbery on you, I believe those are also made out of corn, they tell me, and we can do them better than that by the way. Those are some of the things we do with corn. 
   One of the things we don't do with corn is set an ear of field corn on one's plate and eat it. In fact, you don't make cornflakes out of it, and you don't make corn chips out of it.     
   Most of that corn is livestock feed. And it has a component in it that's starch, and it has a component in it that's oil and has a component in it that's protein. And the value of this corn as we break it down, it works out like this. Some of the oil has a high value to it, but poultry and hogs can't digest that higher oil product so well. Cattle seem to do okay. And yet the world has an over supply of starch, and it has a shortage of protein. 
   And so we take the corn, and we grind the corn up and process it into ethanol and we process the starch into ethanol, and we bring the protein back; and the protein comes back in the form of DDGs, or dried distillers grains is what that stands for, and we have wet mash in a number of different varieties and some high-protein varieties. We have a series of higher quality byproducts of ethanol production. 
   But to keep it simple, there is dried distillers grain. And the dried distillers grain is the protein. The starch has been converted into ethanol. Much of that starch would have passed through the animal and have been wasted had we fed it. But most of the protein is retained in the process. We feed it back to livestock. 
   And however pessimistic you want to be, Mr. Speaker, when you take a bushel of corn and convert it into three bushels of ethanol, or excuse me, three gallons of ethanol, that bushel of corn will have at least half of its value of  feed left over in the form of protein that goes back to livestock and the value of it is actually a little higher. 
   So a bushel of corn weighs about 56 pounds, and you can split that into thirds. About a third of it goes off in the starches that are converted into ethanol, about a third of it goes off in the form of CO  
   2, carbon dioxide--and a lot of that is wasted if you feed the corn anyway--and about a third of that is retained in dried distillers grain which goes back on the truck and back out to the feed lot and fed to livestock which converts it into protein that we can use, Mr. Speaker. 
   So if you go to an ethanol plant and stand there and watch what is happening, there will be trucks coming in that are dumping off corn. And they will come in and unload that corn; some of them will turn right back around, pull back underneath in the next bay and load themselves completely up with dried distillers grain and go out to the feed lot and dump that load off out there, and that goes out to feed cattle. We don't lose that grain in the fashion that Wall Street thinks we do. 
   So however you cut it, you have to add back in half, at least, and that's a conservative number, Mr. Speaker. 
   So here is how it works for the 2007 crop. Food prices went up 4.9 percent. Fuel prices went up 18 percent. They would have gone up more if we hadn't have put 9 billion gallons of ethanol on the market. So if the fuel prices had gone up, I believe they would have driven food prices up even higher. And to think that because we took corn off the market to make ethanol, that that deprives someone of a meal, it didn't happen. It didn't happen in a single instance in America or across the world for that matter, Mr. Speaker. 
   Additionally, last year, 2007, we raised more corn than ever before, 13.1 billion bushels of corn. That's a lot of corn, Mr. Speaker. And we export more corn than ever before, 2.5 billion bushels of corn. Not only do we export more than ever before, but we converted more into ethanol than ever before. We used 3.2 bushels of corn for that. 
   So if you have got your calculator out, and you are thinking how this works--and a lot of us can figure this in our head or do so with a pencil and a cardboard box--13.1 billion bushels of corn, minus 2.5 billion was exported, more than ever before I would remind you again, minus 3.2 billion bushels that went into ethanol production, and then but about half of that gets added back in because we didn't lose the feed value of all of that corn. So that's 1.6. Do a plus on 1.6 billion bushels of corn, that it goes back as a feed value. And now you should be at, Mr. Speaker, if you're wide awake and alert and paying attention, that you're at 9.0 billion bushels of corn available for the domestic consumption in the United States. 
   Now, what does that mean? Well, the answer, to put it in proportion, is that if you average the rest of the years in the decade, the average bushels that were available for domestic consumption in the United States, and that's the same math I have done, total production minus export, minus conversion to ethanol, to get you to that number the average bushels that are available for domestic consumption in the United States, that comes out to be 7.4 billion bushels. That's an average year. That's an average year in the last decade and the most representative we have, Mr. Speaker. But we had available to the domestic supply 9.0 billion bushels. 
   So that's 1.6 billion bushels more than we normally have for domestic supply of corn. And that says to me that high corn prices in this country aren't solely attributable to ethanol, and it says to me that it isn't really a food-versus-fuel argument. It says to me there are other factors out there such as the increase in world demand of gasoline, diesel fuel, and other hydrocarbons that come from petroleum products. It also says to me the weak dollar has made a difference, that the Chinese and their demand has gone up by 32 percent, and the Indian demand has gone up dramatically, and the Chinese import has increased 2,000 percent this year. 
   We also should understand that there are countries in the world that subsidize the gas purchases, China being one of them. There are multiple countries in the world that subsidize gas for people. So they're buying the value of that gas down. If they can do that, because they hold a lot of dollars maybe, maybe their currency buys a lot, whatever is their motivation, we're not subsidizing gas here in the United States. We're taxing it. We're taxing gas in the United States for a number of reasons. 
   But in my State, the gas tax is over 20 cents a gallon. It's been that way for a long time. The Federal gas tax is 18.4 cents a gallon. And I look at this floor and the people on it and those who hold the gavels to chair the committees, and it's astonishing to the people in my part of the country that there wouldn't be enough pressure coming from your constituents to get you to finally crack and allow us to drill to get access to places like ANWR, the Outer Continental Shelf, the BLM lands in the United States. 
   Why does not that pressure come from your constituents, let us just say Mr. Rangel in New York. Mr. Rangel, why don't your constituents rise up and demand cheaper gas? I ask that question. And you can tell me, but let me try to answer, and I will be happy to yield to you if you like. But I think the answer is this. Your constituents ride the subway. Your subway is mass transit. Your mass transit is subsidized by the gas tax that my constituents pay. So when they're paying $4.10 a gallon for tax, 20-some cents for state tax on that, 18.4 cents for Federal tax, 17 percent of the Federal gas tax dollar goes to subsidized mass transit which subsidizes your subway riders, those people who are riding around in the subterranean tunnels in New York City. They get a cheap ride, my constituents pay the price. 
   My constituents are mad. They're tired of $4.10 gas. Your constituents are riding on the backs of mine. That's why you're not hearing from them. 
   You can go right down here to South Capitol, Mr. Speaker, and climb on the Metro, and for $1.25 you can get a ride out to Falls Church. But 17 percent of the gas tax dollar that's paid for by my constituents and the people that don't have a subway and don't of a Metro and don't have an L and don't have a San Francisco cable car, 17 percent of that, their money, their gas tax money, goes to subsidize the cable car in San Francisco, the subway in New York, the L in Chicago, and the Metro here in Washington, D.C. 
   That's why you're not hearing the pressure, Mr. Rangel. I'm hearing it. I have been hearing it for a long time. I have been feeling the pressure when I write the checks. I don't have to wait for my constituents to tell me. 
   It's about time your constituents rose up and said, Let's solve this problem because the economy in the United States will ultimately collapse if we're going to be sending our money overseas and let them hold us hostage for the oil that they have. And yet the answer that the majority party has is don't drill now, don't drill anywhere, don't allow any of this energy to come up out from underneath our very feet. 
   The natural gas in this country is massive. I have many times come to the floor and said there are 406 trillion cubic feet of natural gas out there, much of it on the Outer Continental Shelf, much of it we've not been not able to explore, and we don't know how much is there. But known reserves. I said 406 trillion cubic feet, and I saw a chart today that took us up to 420 trillion cubic feet of natural gas still with massive areas uncharted, unknown. That's just the known reserves. 
   Natural gas is a big chunk of the energy that we burn in America, Mr. Speaker. And here is an example of the percentage. 
   This is our energy production. All of the different kinds of energy that we produce and consume here in the United States, there's the natural gas component. Now this is the 365-degree pie chart that's all the Btus, Mr. Speaker, that we use. It includes electricity, gasoline, diesel fuel, coal, all of the sources of British thermal units. And of the energy we produce in America, the natural gas component is right here, 27.46 percent, a big old chunk of the energy we use. 
   Mr. Peterson of Pennsylvania, JOHN PETERSON has come down here on this floor and repeatedly said natural gas is the mother's milk of manufacturing in America. It's the mother's milk of fertilizer. Ninety percent of the cost of producing nitrogen fertilizer, which is essential to grow everything, is right  here in the cost of natural gas. Yet because we refuse to develop our natural gas, prices have soared here in the United States and we've essentially lost our fertilizer industry; and they go to places like Trinidad, Tobago, where they have cheap, cheap natural gas. And that is driving the industry. 
   But also it allows for people like Hugo Chavez to hold us hostage. And a lot of that fertilizer comes from Russia. 
   But here in the United States, we've got the natural gas to do this, but the pressure on this natural gas is getting great because the Greens--and that means the ``green people'' that come up with some of these partial formulas; they can't think the whole thing through or refuse to, Mr. Speaker--but their idea is that the carbon, the greenhouse gas emissions, the carbon emissions from burning natural gas are less than they are from burning coal. 
   Here is our measure on coal: 32.54 percent of the energy produced in America is coal, 27.46 percent is natural gas. 
   So to give you a sense on how the Greens think, Mr. Speaker, it would be this: There is a coal-fired generating plant that provides the electricity for our Capitol complex here in the center of Washington D.C. Seems as though the Speaker of the House somehow has control or authority over how they manage that generating plant. I would think it would be the experts that do that, but obviously it's not. And I come to find out a month or so ago that the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, Democrat from San Francisco, San Francisco attitudes and ideas and ideals, issued some kind of an order that converted the power-generating plant that was fired by coal and operated effectively and efficiently, over to natural gas under the belief that there are fewer greenhouse gasses emitted by natural gas. 
   Now that may be true, but natural gas is a lot more expensive to generate electricity out of than coal. 
   So she converted from an economic-generating system to an uneconomic-generating system, and she tapped into the supply for my fertilizer. When you use natural gas to create, to produce more generating plants, you're taking that natural gas away from fertilizer. You're taking your natural gas away from manufacturing. You have tapped in to and you have siphoned off the mother's milk for the economy in this country to convert it to producing electricity. 
   The State of Florida--and I'm happy to see that a good number of the Florida delegation has decided that they think a little differently about drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf today. But a couple of years ago, the report I saw was that there were 33 generating plants planned for construction in Florida and that 28 of those 33 were to be natural gas fired; natural gas fired in a State that has all of that natural gas surrounding the Peninsula but is not willing to allow us to go down and tap into that natural gas. 
   Some of them are changing their position because they understand the security of this country is tied up in energy and the cost of energy, and if we keep shipping our wealth out, it won't matter pretty soon. We will be unable to function as an economy and the rest of the world will catch up and sweep us up. 
   And so, Mr. Speaker, the natural gas here, which I think is an inappropriate use to be increasing the use of natural gas to generate electricity, instead, the Speaker converted the coal-fired plant here, which was at least economical, to a natural gas fired plant, and then insisted that the Capitol complex be carbon neutral.     
   And so in order to get carbon neutral, the idea is you're supposed to, if you can't get neutral on your own, then provide incentives so others can contribute. And so the order was to the management and administration of the Capitol complex here to go buy some carbon credits on the board of trade in Chicago. 
   Now, I've forgotten what they call these carbon credits. There's a certain trading mechanism there on the board in Chicago that will allow people to go in and buy and sell carbon credits. And so the taxpayers of the United States spent $89,000 buying up some carbon credits on the board in Chicago. 
   Some of those carbon credits--the number would be about $14,500--went to a coal-fired generating plant in Chillicothe, Iowa, and that coal-fired generating plant was to experiment with burning switchgrass to generate electricity, as opposed to burning coal. The idea is that, when you burn switchgrass, you use the plant to sequester the carbon, pulls the carbon dioxide out of the air, turns it into cellulose in the form of carbon. You harvest the switchgrass, haul it into the coal-fired generating plant, dump it into an incinerator, heat it up and use that heat to generate the steam that it takes to spin the turbine that generates the electricity. That's the deal with switchgrass. 
   Well, the $14,500 check off that board apparently, according to the news at least, went to the plant in Chillicothe, Iowa, and they had already scrapped their plan to burn switchgrass. So it didn't change anybody's behavior in the positive, but it did help a little bit I suppose minimize the pain of experimenting with that. 
   $14,500 of that $89,000 also went to one of the Dakotas, and it's easy to mix them up, but I'm going to say I believe it was South Dakota. In any case, it was Farmers Union, and they distributed that money to no-till farmers. And the report is that they didn't change anybody's behavior, that some of them were to going to no-till farm anyway. Some of them had already no-till farming, but it helped out a little bit on the bottom line. 
   Now, this idea that we can trade carbon credits and not have any way to go back and audit and be able to measure, first, whether it changed anybody's behavior or whether you rewarded somebody for behavior that they had already adopted for some other reason, now I've got neighbors that are no-till farmers. About a third of the land around me is no-tilled. I wish it were more, and those that have been no-tilling for years are good leaders, and they will sequester some carbon in the soils, and I think that's a scientific fact, Mr. Speaker. 
   But it's also a fact that if they change their mind on no-till, and they want to go out and open that field up and farm it in a more conventional fashion, in a very short while, a few years at the maximum, all the carbon that's been sequestered is released into the atmosphere anyway. And so what was the point in paying them to sequester the carbon if you couldn't be sure that you could retain it there? 
   This has gotten pretty silly in America, Mr. Speaker. It's gotten so silly that when I pick up my chain saw and go out and trim the trees, we call that harvesting sequestered carbon where I live. And when I climb on the lawn mower and go out and cut the grass, we call that harvesting sequestered carbon. And so if I'm going to harvest that sequestered carbon, I wonder if I shouldn't get a credit for it here, and I would be willing to take that credit, if the Speaker would want to send me a check for it, and I'd contribute that back to the taxpayers that paid for it. 
   This is a silly, silly thing going on, and I can tell you that none of this thinking would have originated in the Midwest of the United States of America. It's got to come from the left coast and sometimes it comes from the east coast, but this is the kind of thinking that you run into in places like San Francisco and Berkeley and Boston. This is this kind of myopic thinking that can't think it through, can't get to the end, can't paint the picture of what America would look like if we gave them all their way. 
   So I'm not thrilled to see the direction that this is going, Mr. Speaker, but before I lose track, I want to make this point real well for everyone who is paying attention. 
   These are the components of our energy production. I call this is the energy pie, Mr. Speaker. Natural gas, 27.46 percent; coal, 32.54 percent. This is our nuclear, nuclear energy at 11.66 percent of the overall production. I wish that were a lot higher. Here's your hydroelectric power, 3.41 percent. Now, these tiny little slivers, things that we think actually matter and one day hopefully some of them grow so that they do, geothermal, little less than a half percent, .49 percent, not much; wind, .44 percent. Got a lot of that around me, and I'm happy that we have it. It's not a very big piece of our production pie, however. Solar power, .11 percent and can't even see that  there. It's just a line. Fuel from ethanol, .76 percent. As much as we produce, 9 billion gallons of ethanol is still only three-quarters of a percent of the overall production pie chart. 
   Biodiesel, .09 percent, tiny little sliver. Biomass growing, 4.12 percent. Some of that biomass is growing because we're palletizing waste and because we're palletizing wood products, for example. So we have people that have biomass furnaces. Well, I don't know how good that is from a greenhouse gas standpoint, Mr. Speaker, but biomass is a larger piece than one would think it is, 4.12 percent. 
   Motor gasoline, this is the gasoline that's produced in the United States of America. That's 8.29 percent of the overall production chart that we have. 
   Diesel fuel and heating oil together is the red piece, that's 4.2 percent. Kerosene and jet fuel together, 1.57 percent. You'd think that would be a little more, too. 
   And then the other petroleum products, that would be things like our real heavy oils like asphalt and products like that, that's 4.86 percent, a bigger piece than you might think. 
   This is what we produce, Mr. Speaker, in the form of energy, and now if it were also what we consumed, that would be a good picture. But here's a picture of what we consume, and the outside circle is the piece of our energy consumption. The inside circle is our energy production, Mr. Speaker. It's set up like this so that we can take a look at this and quickly see the difference between production and consumption. 
   The outside picture, the energy consumption, works out to be that, of all the energy we consume, natural gas is 23.3 percent of that. Coal is 22.4 percent. You can see that some of these things like coal we produce a big chunk of what we consume, in fact probably all of it. Nuclear, we produce what we consume, but it's 8.29 percent of the overall energy consumption. Compare it to the lower chart, where our production is 11.66 percent, and shows you just almost proportionally what happens when you go from the production chart to the consumption chart. 
   You can go all the way on around, and rather than pound that all in, the situation is this. We're producing 8.29 percent of the gasoline. 8.29 percent is the percentage of the overall production, but of our overall consumption, gas is 17.44 percent. 
   Bottom line works out to be this. Energy production, Mr. Speaker, is 72.1 quadrillion Btus of energy, 72.1. Now, quadrillion, that's 15 zeros behind there. It's a big number. But in proportion to this other number, we all understand it. We're consuming 101.4 quadrillion Btus. 
   The energy consumption pie is bigger than the energy production pie, Mr. Speaker, and that is the issue that we're dealing with, and we need to grow every one of these components. We need more domestically produced natural gas. We need more petroleum so that we can produce more gasoline, more diesel fuel, more kerosene and jet fuel, more other petroleum products that we have, and we need to produce more coal, clean-burning coal. Coal's cheap, we have a lot of it, and nuclear, I mentioned. 
   The French and their electrical generation production, 78 percent is nuclear. Now, you can look across the world for all time and measure up the safest forms of energy of electrical production, and it's going to come down to nuclear is just about safer than anything else. We think that it's dangerous because of Chernobyl. We don't generate electricity with plants designed like Chernobyl. We do it the opposite. It is much, much safer in this country than it was there. Three Mile Island, turns out that it actually wasn't the kind of a situation that they had us thinking it was. 
   And so right now, electrical generation production on nuclear is the safest we can do. It's the most environmentally friendly that we can do, and there is no reason that we can't be in production, building more and more nuclear-generating plants. There is one that's under construction in South Carolina, and hopefully, they will be able to streamline the regulatory process. 
   But we've been tied up for more than a generation by people that are opposed to nuclear-generating plants. Even though they didn't have the science behind them, they still tied it up. They still filed lawsuits. They created movements, and these movements are movements that aren't based sometimes on fact but based on emotion. 
   And we've seen Europe do some things that we thought was pretty silly because it's tied up in emotion. One of those is to oppose genetically modified organisms, GMOs. So the corn and the beans that we produce here, the roundup ready I talked about, the beans going up and the weeds dying out, that's not a product that they want to take on over there. So their production has not kept up as ours has, but yet somehow they figured out that if they needed electricity and they need to be able to run their air conditioners and their heaters and turn on their lights and do all of those other things that electricity does, in order to do so they've had to generate their electricity with nuclear. They're ahead of us in that capacity. We need to grow the nuclear power here. 
   I would grow the hydroelectric power. In fact, I could find some places to store up some of that power and reservoirs that would protect some parts of Iowa from flooding in the future. And yet, we haven't built big dams in this country in a long time because environmentalists, Mr. Speaker, stand in the way. Environmentalists stand in the way of building more nuclear plants. 
   Environmentalists stand in the way of producing more coal-fired generating plants. Some people think we'll never build another new coal-fired generating plant because environmentalists stand in the way. 
   When it comes to natural gas, environmentalists stand in the way, not in the way of burning the gas but in the way of drilling for it and in the way of distributing it and laying out pipelines so we can get it collected. And you look around at kerosene jet fuel, other petroleum products, environmentalists stand in the way. 
   What are they willing to allow us to do? Well, take nuclear off the table, take coal off the table, take development of natural gas off the table. All these petroleum products here, they're all off the table. Motor gasoline is off the table. What's left? Biomass, and if they caught you burning wood in your furnace they would think that added too much to greenhouse gas, Mr. Speaker, so they would take your wood-burning fireplace off the table. 
   So what's left? Well, let's see, fuel from ethanol? Oh, no, that's food versus fuel, we can't do that. That goes off the table. 
   Solar, well, solar, .08 percent, maybe just maybe. It's a real thin line there. You can't even see the wedge. Maybe they'd let us put up some more solar panels. That makes me feel all warm and fuzzy, Mr. Speaker, if they'd let us do that. 
   Biodiesel, no, I know that's food versus fuel. Either soybean oil or animal fat, so somebody can eat or drink it or do something else with it. 
   Wind, oh, yeah, they'd let us build more wind. Of course, it takes a lot of energy to produce those generators, and maybe if we would let them use the same formula that they used to add up the energy that it takes to produce ethanol, it might turn out that it takes more energy for a wind charger than to get out of the wind.     
   But I don't think those folks at Berkley and Cornell have actually dug into that to figure out how much energy that is at this point. So maybe, just maybe, we can tap a little energy from wind, a little energy from solar, and it looks to me like we're pretty much out, except for maybe geothermal, but, you know, it takes a little energy to produce that, too. 
   So if I just take the things that are off the table out of here and add up the consumption on those that may still be on the table, we have solar at .08, we have wind at .31, so that's .39 geothermal at .35, so you end up with .74--I think that will be the number--.74 of a percent. Not quite three-quarters of 1 percent of all of the energy that we consume in America is the only that would be acceptable to the environmentalists that stand in the way. .74 percent of our energy that we consume is not objectionable to them, Mr. Speaker. 
   And the number probably changes a little bit down here out of our production, but the point remains, it wouldn't  change more than--you get down to about 1 percent of the max. The point remains. These are people that think that our people can get along without energy. 
   Now, how can that be? What kind of a world would you be looking at? I mean, are these folks that live down next to the equator maybe? I remember Jimmy Carter sitting there saying, well, this Nation isn't going to be able to cut it anymore. Our future is minimized dramatically. We aren't going to be able to have gasoline to put in our cars. And we're going to have to be willing to accept a lower quality of life and a lower standard of living. But what you need to do if you're a patriot American is to buy yourself a cardigan sweater and put that on and button it up and sit in the chair and turn your thermostat down to 60. Now, that might work in Georgia--I don't actually think it works all the time in Georgia. It will work most of the time in southern Florida--maybe even all the time in southern Florida. It doesn't work much of the time in northern Iowa or Minnesota or Montana. It doesn't work most of the time in the northern half of the United States. But it worked for Jimmy Carter, put on a sweater, turn your thermostat down to 60. 
   So what's the future for this country if we can't find the will to expand all of these sources of energy as opposed to making a dinky little argument about less than 1 percent of the energy production we have as if somehow that's going to solve our problem. 
   And we saw T. Boone Pickens come on television in the last few days and say, ``I've been an oil man all my life, but this is one problem we can't drill our way out of.'' Well, Mr. Speaker, that may be true, but this is one problem that we can't get out of without drilling either, and T. Boone Pickens needs to hear that. 
   Part of the solution is, develop the energy that we have, expand the size of this overall energy production pie. And let's be realistic. If you're only supporting three-quarters of 1 percent of the overall sources of energy that we have, what are you going to do with the people until you can get to the point where you can--you think you can really expand that three-quarters of 1 percent into 101.4 quadrillion Btus? Do the math on that. Do the math on that and tell me how you come back with that, you brainiacs that are believing that this country can get along without energy. 
   So what does energy do? It lights our homes; it heats our homes. It fuels our vehicles. It powers the cable car in San Francisco. It provides our manufacturing energy. It keeps the wheels of this economy moving. And without energy, turn out the lights, pull the keys out of the car, pull the keys out of the boat and the camper, lock up our factories, lock up our offices, go back, and you can't even light the candle because that would put greenhouse gases up into the air and then you would have to buy a carbon credit from maybe somebody that's going to burn switch grass or do no-till farming in the Dakotas somewhere, Mr. Speaker. 
   I'm not going to be willing to accept the idea that we can't have a comprehensive energy plan. And I'm not going to be willing to accept the idea that the people that produce that energy are somehow capitalizing on the people here in the United States. It is supply and demand. I'm not going to be willing to accept the idea that there is a lot of margin in the futures markets and that somehow the traders have driven this up and it's an inflated price. Because when you buy in the futures, every time you go long somebody has to go short. That's the way it works, Mr. Speaker. 
   And last week we had witnesses before the Ag Committee that testified that they thought that a pretty respectable percentage of the high cost in gasoline comes from the people that are trading in the futures market--now, I'm not one of them. And we heard from Mr. Van Hollen of Maryland who said, when asked the question, how much margin is in there? He said, Well, I don't know. I don't know how much is there, but I know we've got to squeeze it out drop by drop. And you go to his left, and there was Ms. DeLauro, who I asked if she believed in the free enterprise system. And she convinced me that we have two different concepts of what the supply and demand is and the free market system is. 
   And then you move to her left and you have the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Stupak) who, breathtakingly, wrote in his written testimony and repeated it in his oral testimony that supply and demand doesn't affect the price of gold. If gold is a commodity, the value of it is a speculators' commodity, so it's no longer affected by supply and demand and that we don't use it industrially. So over the weekend I looked over there at that gold dome, that's the Iowa Capitol, and it looks to me like that's an industrial use. And I looked down at my wedding ring, and maybe that's a jewelry/commercial industrial use. This gold is not coming back on the market. Supply and demand affects the price of gold as much today as it did when Adam Smith wrote about the Spanish galleons going down to Central America and hauling back those galleons loads of gold. They dumped that on the market in Europe and the price of gold plummeted because they took the price of labor out of it by actually stealing it from the Central Americans, Native Americans. 
   Breathtakingly argued that supply and demand doesn't affect the price of gold, and that oil is now a commodity like gold and it's not affected by supply and demand either. I simply can't argue with that way of thinking, I'll just say that supply and demand affects the price of everything. It's our free market system. If it doesn't, then it's government controlled, and then its volume will be rationed, Mr. Speaker. 
   And so of all the things we need to do, we need to grow the size of the energy pie, grow our production--this is our production--grow it out to the limits of our consumption, grow a little more if we can. Let's export a little energy and take some cash back. Let's shore up the dollar. Let's fix our balance of trade. Let's continue to close this deal; we've won the war in Iraq, and now let's finish the deal there. We've chased al Qaeda back through into Pakistan and Afghanistan. We're going to have to go there and mop it up, that's right. Casualties in Afghanistan have, of a matter, exceeded that of Iraq, and the troops in Afghanistan are far less than they are in Iraq. So proportionally it's more risky to serve in Afghanistan today than it is in Iraq. 
   Let's do all that. Let's seal the border. Let's end birthright citizenship. Let's shut off the jobs magnet. Let's get this country moving again. Let's improve the average annual productivity of our citizens, and let's improve their quality of life at the same time. And let's, Mr. Speaker, go back and anchor ourselves in those timeless values that are the pillars of American exceptionalism, they're in the Bill of Rights, they're in our history, they're in the Federalist Papers, and the central pillar is the rule of law. 
   We are a Nation that is the leader and the readout for western civilization. And one of our core values is we came from the Age of Reason in Greece, let's make sure we maintain our reason here. Let's make sure that we can maintain our ability to deductively reason, think our way through, and ask the American people to be critical thinkers. And let them be critical of us when they are logical, and let's respond to them with facts and logic, not political campaign rhetoric. Let's fix this energy problem and move forward together. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE PRICE OF GASOLINE -- (House of Representatives - May 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, it is an honor to be recognized to address you here on the floor of the United States House of Representatives. And of all the issues that are before this country today, tonight, yesterday, last week, last month and tomorrow, energy is the number one issue that is on the minds of the American people. 
   And as the American people pull into the gas pump and pay $3.60 or $3.70 for a gallon of gasoline, and if they are buying diesel fuel for their truck or maybe for their diesel automobile, they are up there at $4.17 and $4.20 a gallon, and that inflation of the fuel cost is on the minds of all Americans. And it costs us all in a number of different ways. 
   I have a group of constituents, and a lot of them use something like a gallon, gallon and a half of gas to go to work every day. We don't all live in a compressed place in the inner city like millions of Americans do. Some of us live 25, 30 or 40 miles from our work. Even if we get a car that gets 20 or 25 miles to the gallon, we might still drive, if it's 25 miles to the gallon, 25 miles. That's a gallon of gas to get to work. And it's a gallon of gas to get home. And that gallon of gas at $3.60 adds up over the week, an extra gallon going to work, and an extra gallon coming from work. And if you do that Monday through Friday and sometimes for half a day on Saturday, that means that over the week, let's just say that gas is up $1.50 a gallon from where it was not that long ago, that's $1.50 extra going to work and $1.50 extra coming home from work. That's $3 a day, $20 a week, perhaps $18 to $20 a week, and that's $80 or more a month. That $80 more a month is a significant amount out of the paycheck of the American people, Madam Speaker. 
   We can deal with that, Madam Speaker, if we adjust. We can make these adjustments as we go. We can squeeze our budgets down. We can carpool a little bit. We might go to the auto dealer and buy ourselves a car  that gets a little better mileage. And that's happening. Those dealers that are selling high-mileage vehicles are doing okay right now. 
   Some of the American people can't afford to trade up in their vehicles. And some of them have to drive the vehicles that don't get as good mileage. And some of them have to go to work every day. And when they pull into the gas pump, and they stick the nozzle in the tank and fill that tank up, they know that they're paying in most States a State tax, as well. Certainly where I come from in Iowa there is a State gas tax. And that goes to build our roads. And there is 18.4 cents of Federal tax on the gasoline that goes to build our roads. And when they stick that nozzle in the tank, squeeze that nozzle and fill the tank up or put in $20 or whatever it is they can afford, they don't mind paying that 18.4 cents because they want to drive, Madam Speaker, on a good road. 
   And yet that 18.4 cents doesn't all go to road construction, road improvement and road maintenance. A lot of that 18.4 cents is broken up into a number of different categories. Seventeen percent goes to mass transit. Three percent goes to trails. About 28 percent, according to the Transportation Committee a few years ago, goes to archeological and environmental compliance. 
   And if you add up the pieces of that gas tax, of that 18.4 cents, it comes up to the point where maybe one-third of the 18.4 cents in Federal gas tax actually goes to build and maintain the road that these cars that are paying the tax are driving on. So it's one thing to have a gas tax. And it's another to apply the gas tax to the place where it's used. If this is a user's fee, if we are taxing the gas because cars wear out roads, and trucks that use diesel and pay diesel tax wear out roads and we need to rebuild them, refurbish them and resurface them, then it doesn't make sense that such a high percentage of that gas tax dollar goes to something other than the roads that are being driven on.     
   Now, the rationale is we need trails because that's where we put our bicycles, and that takes them off of the highway. Well, it does to some degree, but it's not a user's fee for the bicycles. 
   If we take the position that mass transit takes people off of the roads and puts them into, say, the subway system, for example, the ``L'' in Chicago, the Metro here in Washington, DC, then if it takes them off the roads and it slows down the congestion in our highways and it frees up our roads, if you put people in the subway, under the tunnel, in the city, it does do that. But the people that are riding under the city that don't own a car, that don't buy any gas, that are going back and forth cheaply from job to job, those people are getting a discount at the expense of the people that are paying the gas tax. 
   For example, and I will just pick a number, if you go down to the South Capitol stop, here in Washington, DC, and you decide you want to go out to Falls Church on the Metro, I think that's about a buck and a quarter to take that ride out to Falls Church. Well, you can't get a taxi ride out there for that, and you can't drive out there for that, but you can take Metro out there for a buck and a quarter. Now, that's nice, a lot of folks do that. They take that ride out there to Falls Church or points beyond. Travel around within our cities and Washington, DC, and most of the major cities in America are on the subway, and they do that very subsidized with the 17 percent of that gas tax that's paid for by people that are driving cars and buying gasoline. 
   I wonder, why is it that the majority in this Congress, headed up by Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, and the San Francisco approach to energy, coupled with the Massachusetts approach to finances, how can the Democrat administration that's here, the Democrat leadership that's here in this Congress, how can they continue to bring education or bring energy bills to this Congress that constantly reduce the supply of energy, tax the energy more, regulate the energy more, seek to impose windfall profit taxes on our energy producers, do all of that, which reduces the amount of energy that's on our market, which drives up the cost of gasoline. Why do not the constituents of the people that are in this majority, the ones who hold the gavels to chair the committees, why don't their constituents rise up and say that's enough, I want cheaper gas. I don't want to pay $3.60, I don't want to pay $3.70, I don't want $4 gas and I sure don't want to buy $129 crude oil by the barrel. 
   My constituents rise up and say let's do something. Why don't theirs? Why is it the red zones in America want less expensive energy and always--and why is it the people in the blue zones in America are willing to tolerate higher energy costs? 
   That question is one that actually has an answer. When one examines it, I come up with this conclusion. If you are driving on the roads of America, and, especially, if you live a long way from your work, that gallon or gallon and a half of gas that you have to burn to get to work and that much to get home again and do it every day, if you are in that kind of an environment, and you are paying for the gas, it matters to you right now, $3.60 gas matters right now, and you don't maintain the tax so much because you need a good road to drive on. 
   But if you go out every day and you don't own a car, if you don't own an automobile, and you go down into the subway and you get your season ticket or your daily ticket, and you run it through there and you get on the subway, you get on the Metro and you take your subsidized ride, you are not thinking, thank you, gas-buying America for helping to fund my ride on this subway today. You are just thinking this is the way the expenses are in my life, they aren't so bad, I can deal with that. I don't know what's wrong with those people that think we should not--and the people that are riding the subways in America don't understand why it is that those of us that are buying gas want to drill in ANWR, want to drill the Outer Continental Shelf, want to drill the nonnational park public lands in America and provide a distribution system, including pipelines, including collector pipelines, including access roads, so that we can pull this energy that's underneath this continent and bring it into the marketplace. 
   They don't understand that because it doesn't matter to them, because the gas price is paying for their ticket on the Metro, their ticket on the subway, their ticket on the ``L,'' their ticket on the trolley cars in San Francisco. That's the problem. 
   There's a political imbalance here. Alexander Titler said at one point, and I will paraphrase his statement, that when a majority of American people figure out that they can vote themselves benefits from the public treasury, on that day democracy ceases to exist. That is from Alexander Titler, more than 100 years ago. 
   He understood what would happen within this great constitutional republic that we have if we are going to let people go to the polls and vote, and if they elect representatives to come here to this Congress and go to the State legislatures and the county supervisors and the city councils in America and vote themselves benefits from the public treasury when there is a disproportionate share of tax that is being paid by a smaller percentage of the people. When a majority of the people in the United States of America, if they are to this point, where a majority of the people are not paying taxes, and yet they go to the polls and vote themselves benefits from the public treasury, look what happens. 
   They don't care how much tax there is on the rich, because there is no tax on the poor, at least so to speak, and the people that are riding the subsidized mass transit, they don't care how much tax there is on gasoline and they don't care how expensive it gets. After all, they are not paying the price for that. 
   But if we would index the price of a ticket from South Capitol to Falls Church to the price of gasoline, and if we would tax that ticket for the equivalent amount of gasoline so that they could help fund the construction of their mass transit and their construction and the maintenance of our roads, it would be a far more expensive ticket to take that ride on the Metro. The people that are paying the price would be demanding something entirely different of their Members of Congress. 
   This reflexion that we have here, this apathy about high gas prices, this apathy about short energy supplies, this  reverence, this love, this almost irrational religion about opposing drilling in ANWR, a place that I can't imagine that oil could be in a more logical and better place for humanity to access it than ANWR. Now, having heard a lot of arguments against drilling in ANWR, I thought it was important for me to go up there and visit. I did do that. 
   As one who was signed up to go on the original pipeline back in 1970 that opened up the oil fields in the north slope of Alaska, I was signed up to go up there, and the court injunctions stopped the exploration and the development of that pipeline in 1970. I got married in 1972, the court injunctions were finally lifted later on that year. That was the year that my wife convinced me that I should stay home in Iowa, and I think it might have been very good advice. But, in any case, we began the right-of-way construction for the pipeline in 1972 or early 1973 and opened up the oil fields up there in the north slope of Alaska about that 
   same period of time. 
   As we move forward till 1983, 1993, 2003, 35 years, in 35 years we have developed a lot of oil, we have pumped a lot of crude oil down through that pipeline to Valdez and put it on our oil tankers and headed them to points south and to oil refineries south of Valdez, Alaska. In all that time, despite of the fact that there have been some very minor leaks on the pipeline, and without regard to where the tanker did run ashore there in, I believe, it's Prince William Sound, those events will happen occasionally. 
   The cleanups took place immediately along the pipeline. The very minor leaks that they have had, they have been very minor spills. They have been cleaned up immediately. The impact on the environment has been either zero or negligible, depending on whether you want to make the environmentalist argument or the oil producers' argument. 
   But zero environmental impact or negligible environmental impact in any case does not remove the argument that it was the right thing to do. To drill the north slope, it was the right thing to do to build the Alaska pipeline. It's absolutely the right thing to do to move to the east and develop the oil fields in ANWR and pull that oil up out of the ground and pump it into the Alaska pipeline and send it south. That needs to happen. The oil is there. 
   I read an article in one of my local Iowa newspapers here over the weekend that said, so, why would you want to drill ANWR if there is a guarantee that the oil that's there would eliminate the United States' dependency on foreign oil for 5 years? The criticism was, what are you going to do in the sixth year? 
   Well, if somebody has got a 5-year solution for $3.60 gas, I want to take it. I want to take it right now. I want to punch those holes in the ground. I want to connect those pipelines up, and I want to get that oil coming south. 
   If we had done that 5 years ago, we would have that north slope connected to ANWR, and that oil would be coming out of the ground today. It would be holding down the increase in energy prices. It wouldn't have changed the world supply on such a point that it would be utterly dramatic, but it would be holding down the increase in costs and, in fact, it would be cheaper today if we had put that ANWR oil on the market 5 or 10 years ago. 
   If we go then to the Outer Continental Shelf, offshore to Florida in particular, natural gas prices have been volatile. They have been way up, they have come back down a ways. They are back up a little bit again. 
   High natural gas prices have almost destroyed the domestic production of fertilizer in the United States because natural gas is the feedstock. The cost factor of 90 percent of the cost of producing nitrogen fertilizer is the cost of natural gas when you go through the process of conversion of natural gas and anhydrous ammonia. 
   Because of high natural gas prices, that fertilizer business has gone offshore. We are sitting here with 406 trillion cubic feet of natural gas on the Outer Continental Shelf, and we can't go offshore to Florida and drill some natural gas wells 199.9 miles offshore? That's the 200-mile mineral rights that were declared by Ronald Reagan back in about 1983. 
   We can't punch a well out at 199.9 miles to bring up the natural gas that we know is there and put it into the marketplace by the trillions of cubic feet, 406 trillion cubic feet? We are blocked from doing that because environmentalists say don't drill, don't drill in ANWR, don't drill the Outer Continental Shelf, don't drill 200 miles offshore in Florida because, well, maybe we would pollute the environment with a natural gas well, when there is not a single historical example of a natural gas well that's polluted the environment. 
   Natural gas comes up out of the ocean floor every day by the millions of cubic feet, and it bubbles to the surface just like we saw it bubbling to the surface during Katrina in the hurricane in the aftermath in the floods of New Orleans when there was a natural gas pipeline break. I actually saw two of those myself, alive, for real, bubbling up out of the water that had flooded New Orleans. 
   It wasn't a pollution into the environment, it had bubbled up into the atmosphere and was dissipated in the atmosphere. That's the worst thing that happens in a natural gas well is if you get a natural gas leak. It goes into the atmosphere, it does what it does, it bubbles out of the ocean floor every day all across the globe. 
   The environmentalists are opposed though. They are opposed because they are opposed to producing energy. They are opposed to having energy on our market. They team up with the tourism industry in places like Florida that is concerned that we will set up a drill rig out there at 199.9 miles offshore, way beyond our ability to be able to see it. 
   Let me think about this. Christopher Columbus figured out the world was round by watching the ships come into port, and he could see the top of the masts first. The closer the ship got, the more he saw the ship because he figured out the curvature of the earth put that ship a little over the horizon as it came forward. He could see the top of the mast, more of the mast. After a while he could see the hull, then he could see the whole ship. He surmised, correctly, well, the earth is round. That's why you don't just happen to see that ship materialize when it comes forward to you across the ocean. 
   For the same reason you can't see an oil rig, I am advised, about 12 miles out. You can argue that, and whether it's 12 more or less, but you don't see that oil rig at 199.9 miles. 
   Imagine a place on the surface of this earth that's 200 miles away from you. I think for me, roughly 200 miles would be if I were standing on the Missouri border, the southern border of Iowa. If I went down to Lineville and maybe Pleasanton and stood there, and I looked north about 200 miles to Minnesota, if there is a drill rig on the Minnesota border, I am not going to see it from the southern border of Iowa and Missouri, it's too far. 
   But we still can't put a drill rig out at 200 miles offshore in Florida because they are afraid that somebody might be concerned that they can see it from the beach of Florida, they might not drive down there and sit on the beach and it will diminish tourism? Yet the Chinese can bring in drill rigs within 45 miles of Key West and be punching oil wells down into the open sea north of Havana 45 miles south of Key West. Forty-five miles in the middle, the Chinese are there drilling oil for the Cubans, and we can't drill 200 miles offshore, and why?     
   A vote went up in the Senate today that failed to open up ANWR. It failed to open up the Outer Continental Shelf, and it failed to open up the energy supply here in the United States of America. And yet 60 or so Senators voted no. 
   Here on this floor, if this vote comes up tonight, Mr. Speaker, or tomorrow, Mr. Speaker, I am confident that the votes don't exist in this Chamber for the responsible thing to take place, for us to step up and say let's tap into our energy supply. Let's drill into ANWR, let's drill the Outer Continental Shelf, let's go to the nonnational park public lands in the United States and drill the places where we have the oil. 
   There was some data that came out about 4 years ago that identified that if we would drill the nonnational park public lands in America for natural gas, we know there is enough natural gas there to heat every home in America for the next 150 years. 
   So what nation in its right mind would sit here and twiddle its thumbs  and agonize over $3.60 a gallon gas, what Nation would set a policy that brought energy bills to this floor, over and over again, energy bills that diminish the supply of energy on the marketplace, tightened up regulations and made it more difficult to develop energy, imposed windfall profit taxes on energy producers. This is the Pelosi Congress that had a plan, had a strategy for energy? We had a new energy policy, what is it? It is at least $1.60 a gallon higher gasoline, that is what the energy policy is. There is no strategy to solve the problem. There isn't a strategy. 
   And so their constituents, Speaker Pelosi's constituents, give her a pass because they have the San Francisco trolley car subsidized by the gas buyers in America. 
   And the constituents coming out of New York, they give their congressmen and congresswomen a pass because they are riding on the subway subsidized by the gas buyers in America. Seventeen percent of the gas tax goes to mass transit. 
   And the people riding on the Metro here in Washington, D.C., they're riding around on transportation subsidized by the gas buyers in America. 
   There is no outrage over here because the folks on this side of the aisle have figured out how to tax the folks on this side of the aisle for their energy. There is no outrage over here because the folks on this side of the aisle don't believe we ought to have cheaper energy. And even if they did believe that, they don't believe in the law of supply and demand. This law of supply and demand which says if you increase the supply and decrease the demand, the prices will fall because the producers have to lower their price in order to sell their product. If you reduce the supply and increase the demand, the prices will go up because sellers will know there is a high demand for their product. Those consumers will be searching to buy that product, and the price will go up. 
   This Congress has reduced the supply of energy, all kinds of energy. The demand for energy is going up and the price is going high. 
   I mean, this is not a complicated equation, Mr. Speaker. The drug dealers in America figured it out a long time ago. If there are a lot of illegal drugs on the market and not many buyers, illegal drugs get cheap. If there is only a little bit of illegal drugs on the market, if our law enforcement people are successful and they interdict those illegal drugs at our southern border, for example, then if the supply has been shut down by an aggressive law enforcement effort, we know a couple of things happen: The price of illegal drugs goes up, and probably the quality goes down. That happens. The drug pushers have it figured out. Why is it that the majority in this Congress doesn't have it figured out? I think they do have it figured out, actually, Mr. Speaker. But my question is why do their constituents not have it figured out? 
   So the supply is down. The demand is up. The price for energy is up, and what is really going on, what is behind this all is not just a, I will say a lack of concern about the high cost of energy, but a belief, Mr. Speaker, that high energy prices will cause people to use less energy, drive less, maybe buy less, and shut down and diminish the consumption of energy in this country. And it is a belief on the part of the majority party that if you can start to slow down the consumption of energy, you are doing something really good because in their mind we are saving the planet. 
   If we use less energy because the cost is high, we will use less energy consumption. Less energy consumption means fewer greenhouse gases, fewer greenhouse gases escaping into the atmosphere means the abysmal energy policy that drives up the cost, the higher energy gets, the more you save the planet. That's what is going on in the minds of the people in San Francisco, in Massachusetts, in the inner cities of America, those people who are not faced with having to put the nozzle in the tank and pay 18.4 cents a gallon in tax and pay $3.60 or $3.70 for that gasoline, and be subsidizing the mass transit, the people in the city that are supporting their Members of Congress that are driving up energy prices, cutting down on supply. 
   You cannot suspend the laws of nature and nature's God. They cannot be suspended. What goes up must come down, that's gravity. That was Newton's law. The law of economics is that if you have a lot of supply and little bit of demand, the price goes down. If you have a little bit of supply and a lot of demand, the price goes up. 
   The sun comes up in the east, not the west. It doesn't rise over San Francisco and San Francisco values; and if you think you can suspend the law of supply and demand, then you're out there in Pe-la-la-losi-land if that's what you think. 
   So our solution, Mr. Speaker, is this: And it is a Republican solution. It is a rational solution, and it is a commonsense American solution. It recognizes this: We have an overall energy pie chart, this circle, this 360-degree circle. In it are these slices of this energy pie. The slices are our consumption of energy, gasoline, diesel fuel, coal, natural gas, hydroelectric, nuclear, wind, ethanol, biodiesel, and the list goes on. Energy conservation is another slice of this overall energy pie. 
   You put that all together out there and what we need to do for our solution is grow the size of the energy pie. We need that pie chart of all of the Btus that are consumed in America. That energy that is consumed, we need a lot more on the marketplace. If we do that, if we increase the amount of Btus that are in this marketplace, then we will push the price down. And as we push our price of energy down, that means then that there will be more of that energy available. There has more energy available, more in proportion to the consumption we have. We push the price of energy down, and that means the cost of American goods get cheaper, not higher. That's the equation. That is not suspending the law of nature and nature's God. That is recognizing the laws of the economic dynamics of supply and demand. 
   And so, Mr. Speaker, this is simple commonsense, simple commonsense that the American people will understand once we convey the message to them, and this Congress needs a debate on energy. There is another debate that is going on on energy right now, and it is one that has been constantly harped at and chipped away at by the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, and the Washington Post. The list of critics goes on. 
   Generally it is critics that look around and they think that somebody is making some money and it is not them, and so they should figure out how to undermine that effort to make money. 
   About 10 or 11 months ago I had people come to me, Mr. Speaker, and say what do you think is going to happen? Can we lose the blenders' credit for ethanol? Can that be reduced or eliminated? How strong is the support for ethanol in the Congress? I would say to them, no problem, I don't think there is any problem. I am not finding a logical, cogent argument that says we should not be building ethanol plants and producing ethanol from corn. That was maybe 10 months ago, Mr. Speaker. 
   And yet as these 10 months have unfolded, I have seen more and more arguments, and some have come to the floor of this Congress, and they made some arguments. They were arguments of convenience, but not necessarily arguments of logic. In fact, I don't believe they could sustain themselves in the face of laboratory facts and a logical analysis. 
   So here's what we have done. I have shaken the hand that squeezed the nozzle that pumped the first gallon of ethanol into a tank. That was back in about 1977. That was a State senator from Corwith, Iowa, named Senator Thurman Gaskill. He squeezed the nozzle that pumped the first gallon. I think we ought to bronze that hand. Maybe we should have bronzed the nozzle. That was a dream and a vision back in 1977 when crops weren't worth much and they needed a way to expand the markets for the commodities that we were producing. They were looking for different ways to provide that marketing of our commodities, and so they began developing an ethanol industry. 
   The first thing that happened is they went to ADM and Cargill and said you are the people producing ethanol. You have the skill and the technology and the talent and the infrastructure to do this. Those companies were not that interested. So they set about producing their own ethanol. I visited some of  those farms where they got out the torch and the welder and the band saw and they put together a still that looked like it could have been, oh, in the mountains of Tennessee a couple of generations earlier. Sorry, Mr. Speaker, the metaphor just came to mind. It could have been a still anywhere down there in that moonshine country. And yet what it was, it was an ethanol production plant on farms in Iowa. As they built these plants, they would get their efficiency that they could get. They would reach a level, and then they would go back and take the torch and cut it up and start all over again. They finally built an industry. Minnesota led very well. I want to give them credit for that. They passed legislation in the Minnesota legislature that provided a tax benefit, and I don't remember exactly the structure, but it was up to 15 million gallons of ethanol for a plant that size. So it was a subsidy to get this jump started. And then they mandated that a blend of ethanol be in all gallons of gasoline sold in Minnesota, and that worked pretty good. 
   Some of those Minnesota farm boys went to work and put together their engineering degrees, and a couple of really good companies grew out of that. And other companies will grow out of it. And today, they are producing millions and millions of gallons of ethanol out of corn. This all grew because we needed to figure out how to market our products. It didn't grow necessarily because gas was high, but it sure fit into the situation we are in today. 
   Then here I am, Mr. Speaker, and people are coming to me and saying, What are we going to do about the high cost of food? Somebody told me the other day that food prices have gone up 64 percent. I reject that. I haven't seen a number like that. I don't believe a number like that, Mr. Speaker. I look back at the numbers for food inflation for 2007, and the ones I see are food that has gone up 4.9 percent; not 64 percent, but 4.9 percent. And they blame that all on ethanol because we are taking corn and converting it into energy. Food versus fuel. If you would Google ``food versus fuel,'' you will find all kinds of hits because that seems to be the argument du jour, food versus fuel. 
   I will argue that is not what should be debated here. But if it is, if food is up 4.9 percent over 2007, energy is up 18 percent over 2007. Why are energy prices higher, because we have a diminished supply and an increased demand. The law of supply and demand says energy costs went up 18 percent. Food went up 4.9 percent, but we dumped and produced 9 billion gallons of ethanol into that marketplace. And because we did that, into about a 142 billion gallon consumption of gasoline, because we did that we held down the price of gasoline with our ethanol. 
   I would submit to you, Mr. Speaker, that the food inflation, that 4.9 percent in food inflation, was driven up more by energy costs, high energy costs, than it was because there was corn taken off the market.     
   In the first place, Mr. Speaker, the corn that goes into ethanol is not initially there for human consumption. I mean, it gets produced into some 300 different products, including high grade corn sweeteners. And that's a smaller percentage of the crop that goes into those things, Mr. Speaker. But what it does go to is primarily into animal feed and to livestock feed, cattle and hogs and poultry, primarily. 
   And so here's how the equation works. And I say this into the Congressional Record for that purpose, Mr. Speaker. We don't have less corn on the market for the 2007 production year. We've got more. We produced more corn than we've ever produced before. The law of supply and demand works. So using corn to produce ethanol would have to have taken corn off the market in order for the price of food to go up. 
   Well, here's the equation. We produced 13.1 billion bushels of corn in 2007. That's more than ever before. And we exported 2.5 billion bushels of corn for 2007. That's more than ever before. You can take your math and subtract that down. And then, from that we also converted 3.2 billion bushels of corn into ethanol, 3.2 billion bushels. But out of that 3.2 billion, we add back in half of that, because we didn't convert the corn into ethanol; we converted the starch into ethanol. We preserved the protein, rolled that back into the feed stock, and so that's worth 1.6 billion added back into that equation. 
   The net result is this: You take 13.1 billion bushels and you subtract 2.5 billion for export, you subtract another 3.2 billion bushels that went to ethanol, but you add back half of that, which is 1.6 billion bushels because that's back into the feed supply and dry distillers grain. You end up with 9 billion bushels of corn available for domestic consumption. 
   The average throughout the balance of the decade was 7.4 billion bushels of corn available for domestic consumption. Last year was 9. So we increased by 1.6 billion bushels the amount of corn that's available for domestic consumption. 
   And yet I've got economic and financial gurus around America that say ethanol has driven up the commodity prices and driven up the food cost prices. What's their math based on, Mr. Speaker? I've given the math for this. If you produce more corn than ever before and you put more into the domestic market than ever before, what's the argument that ethanol drove up the price? 
   I'd argue instead that the cheap dollar has driven up the price of food, and the cheap dollar has been a big reason why energy has cost us more. And so if we would shore up the value of our dollar and bring that dollar up to where it was in more traditional levels within the last couple to 3 years, we would see about 35 percent reduction in gas prices, diesel fuel prices, crude oil prices to the American dollar. 
   We'd also see a little reduction in our grain prices, corn, soybeans, soybean oil, those things that go into energy. And it would slow down some of our exports. And that's true, and it would shift our balance of trade back the other way. 
   On balance, I think it's the right thing to do, Mr. Speaker, shore up the value of the dollar, grow the size of the energy pie, put more Btus on the market in every way we can, continue and accelerate the construction of the nuclear generating plant in South Carolina, first one since 1975. 
   We'll see what the voters of South Dakota say about building the Hyperion oil refinery in Union County, South Dakota. If they say yes, then that means that the pipeline down from Alberta in the tar sands in the northern part of Alberta comes down into that region and we refine gasoline there and send the gas and diesel fuel and the other petroleum products and send that to the points across the North American continent. That's a good thing for us. That means more gas and diesel fuel and more oil into the marketplace coming out of Canada. 
   I'd lot rather do business with the Canadians than I would the Middle Easterners. We're awful close to the same kind of people when you go up there and visit the Albertans, and I'd very much like to see that happen. 
   If we can continue to do that, if we can drill the Outer Continental Shelf, if we can drill in ANWR we can put that crude oil on the marketplace. We can expand the ethanol production from corn. 
   And we'll see how this cellulosic goes. I think it's five to 10 years away before we have an effective cellulosic production of ethanol. 
   We do all of those things, and we continue to put coal out here, which is one of the cheapest alternatives that we have, and develop nuclear, I would do hydro electric if we can figure out how to get it done, and to the extent that wind and solar will work, yes, we should do those things. All of those pieces of the energy pie need to be expanded so that there's more and more Btus on the market. 
   That, Mr. Speaker, is our solution. And yes, conservation is a part of that. And cars that can be more fuel efficient are a good thing. But to mandate that at 75 miles to the gallon says that there's lots of folks that would have to park their Harley. A lot of motorcycles don't get that kind of mileage, Mr. Speaker. 
   That's some of the energy piece that we're dealing with here. Another one is, another myth that needs to be blasted out of the water, Mr. Speaker, is the myth that it takes more energy to produce ethanol out of corn than you get out of it. It's simply not true.  It can't be held up in a laboratory experiment, and it cannot be held up when you do that experiment in the ethanol production plant. 
   But according to Argon Labs, Chicago, here's the analysis, the argument that it takes more energy to produce ethanol than you get out of the ethanol. Here's what it actually takes. 
   If you set a bushel of corn at the gates of an ethanol plant, let's just say in Iowa, Mr. Speaker. It could be anywhere. It takes .67, two-thirds of a BTU in energy of input into that plant to get 1 BTU of energy out in the form of ethanol from corn. Two-thirds of a BTU input, 1 BTU coming back out in the form of ethanol from corn. 
   But if you have a barrel of crude oil sitting outside the gates of the refinery in Texas, and you need to refine that crude oil and refine the gasoline out of the crude oil, it takes 1.3 BTUs in energy to refine 1 BTU out of the crude oil. 
   So remember that equation, Mr. Speaker. .67 BTUs to get the 1 BTU of energy out of corn in the form of ethanol. 1.3 BTUs to get 1 BTU of energy in the form of gasoline out of crude oil, almost twice as much energy to extract gas from crude as it takes to convert corn to ethanol, 1 BTU matched up against 1 BTU. That, Mr. Speaker, is the real analytical answer on where we are with this energy. 
   And as one of the gentlemen here and I have debated many times, his argument that it takes energy to produce a tractor, energy to produce the combine to farm the fields; it takes energy to pump the water and water to produce ethanol. This list goes on and on. 
   And as I look at this and I read the studies, and I read one of those studies. It was about a 63-page long study that supposedly concluded that it takes a lot more energy to produce ethanol than you get out of it. And I read through there and it's so much energy to produce the combine, so much energy for the tractor, seven trips across the field, so much fuel used in each one of those trips, allowing 4,000 calories for the farm worker per day, charged against the production of corn that we're convert to go ethanol. That, Mr. Speaker, is a, I will call it an obscene stretch of science, and it never should have been taken seriously, and would not have been if the people were quoting that ``scientific report,'' and I put that in quotes, that scientific report, if they were serious, if they were intellectually honest, they would have had to say this study doesn't hold water; it doesn't hold ethanol, and this study doesn't hold crude oil. 
   But my argument against that is that if you want to calculate seven trips across the field, the energy it takes to produce the tractor and the combine, 4,000 calories a day for the farmer, then you also have to calculate the energy that it takes to drill the oil well, produce the oil rig, set the workover rig up there, manufacture the pumps and the pump jacks and the piping and the casings and all of that equipment that it takes to complete the old field and do the collector lines that come in and set up the refinery and all of the energy that it takes to refine, including the 1.3 BTUs in energy for every BTU you get out of crude oil; and if that doesn't match up against the corn, from an energy standpoint, you still have to go calculate the energy that it takes to produce the battleship and cast the anchor for the battleship and produce the M-16s and the F-16s, and all of the equipment that it takes and all the manpower that it takes to defend our interests in the Middle East, including the bulletproof vests. And then there's the price of blood on top of that, Mr. Speaker. 
   No, there's not a comparison. It takes a lot less energy to produce ethanol out of corn than it does to produce gasoline out of crude oil, and that is an important part of this. 
   And we have a farm bill coming up, Mr. Speaker. This farm bill may be on this floor tomorrow. And as the people sat in the conference committee and brought their amendments forth and the process, you know, it's not a perfect process, and it's not one that if the public saw it all happen would be very comfortable with it, Mr. Speaker. 
   But they've done some things such as reduce the blenders credit on ethanol from 51 cents a gallon down to 45 cents, 6 cents dinged out of that. Some of that's rolled back up to cellulosic ethanol at $1.01 in blenders credit, under the hope that there'll be a cellulosic industry that would be built. It may be built, Mr. Speaker, with that kind of a subsidy. I don't know. 
   But I know this, that $1.01 in blenders credit for cellulosic ethanol sets that ethanol up as a separate kind of product that would be indistinguishable from corn-based ethanol or any other kind. And if food versus fuel is the argument, then with the food versus fuel argument, one day somebody's going to look out and decide, there's so much subsidy out here for my cellulosic, my switchgrass base ethanol that I think I'm going to take that field that's been corn rotated every other year, and I think I'm just going to put it into permanent switchgrass. Imagine how that works if that turns out to be millions of acres year after year after year in permanent switchgrass, because there's a subsidy, a cellulosic-based ethanol, that land will come out of food production and it will go into fuel production. Then we truly have a debate. We truly have a debate about food versus fuel, and that imbalance in cellulosic ethanol subsidy sets the stage for just that kind of a problem, Mr. Speaker. 
   And if I look at some of the other components of this farm bill, one of the components that I am very concerned about is the kind of veiled insertion of the Pigford Farms issue into the farm bill. Now, Pigford Farms, we might remember, goes back to pre-1995. 1995, then Secretary of Agriculture Dan Glickman stepped up in a press conference and he said to America, the United States Department of Agriculture has discriminated against black farmers. And in that confession it started a class action lawsuit. That class action lawsuit moved forward. There was negotiation on it, and finally they reached a consent decree. And that consent decree set up a way by which those black farmers that had been discriminated against could go file a claim, and that claim would be resolved. 
   Now, the claims were often $50,000 or the settlement was often $50,000. The applications that came forward, they estimated there would be 2,500 applications, maybe as many as 3,000 applications that came from farmers that alleged that they were discriminated against, perhaps because they'd been denied a loan, for example. And I don't doubt, Mr. Speaker, that this happened, that we had black farmers that were discriminated against. And I don't doubt that there were some that deserved to be compensated for that discrimination. 
   But I question, Mr. Speaker, the numbers that have unfolded since then. We spent $1 billion in settlements to the black farmers that were going to be about 2,500. And this, by the way, is their attorneys that put this number on at about 2,500 claimants. 
   Well, those numbers of claimants have grown and grown and grown. The consent decree was resolved. There was a statute of limitations, a sunset on the time by which they could file a claim. And that sunset period of time has long since passed. 
   And then there was an effort to bring this forward before the Judiciary Committee and open up Pigford Farms again, Mr. Speaker. And I sit on the Ag Committee and on the Judiciary Committee. There are two of us that sit on both of those positions. And I look back at the numbers and I listened to the testimony, and I saw what was going on. 
   And the President of the black farmers testified that there were less than 29,000 black farmers. The number that was produced as the best estimate came at perhaps 18,000 black farmers. Now, the number that was estimated of those that might file claims, not the number discriminated against, but those that might file claims, came to 2,500, Mr. Speaker.     
   So we're working with 2,500 that might have been discriminated against, that might have filed claims out of a universe of 18,000 black farmers. And today, we're looking at 96,000 claims on something that's been closed and settled all in and all up and all done, $1 billion for presumably 2,500 now grown to 96,000 claims, or potential claims, which is another $3 billion written into this Farm Bill in a nice little subtle way where you would hardly notice that it's there. And not very much of America knows what this is about.  
   I have talked to people who have administered these accounts and claims in the USDA. They had to reach out across the country and pull people in, bring many to Washington, set them down and deal with the claims and deal with the claimants one-on-one. And they went to the South to do that, too. 
   And I looked through some of these applications, and some of them are just ludicrous and ridiculous. And some of our FSA, at the time ASCS, directors, who sat there and day after day dealt with those claims, simply sat down and they poured their heart out to me, and said I cannot believe it. I can't believe my country is doing this. I can't believe my country carries such a guilt complex that they would open up the checkbook of American taxpayers for something that has this high a level of fraud. 
   And they tell me, Mr. Speaker, 75 percent minimum fraud rate in these claims. 75 percent. Now that may or may not be right, but I sat down with the administrator of these claims, had that discussion with this individual, and of the 96,000 claims, I asked, Have there been people discriminated against? Have black farmers been discriminated against? And the answer was, Yes, I believe there are. And I accept that answer on face value, Mr. Speaker. 
   Then I asked the question, Of the 96,000 claims, how many actually suffered discrimination? And the answer was, Mr. Speaker, 50. And when my staff asked the question while he was taking notes, 50,000? The answer came back, No, 50. Five-zero. Now that may or may not be the actual number, but I will submit, Mr. Speaker, that's a lot closer to the real number than the 96,000 that we're looking at in claims. 
   And this account, this slot that's written into the Farm Bill for Pickford Farms, the line that's in there at $100 million I will guarantee will be a lot higher than that. But this Congress cannot be in the business of taking taxpayer dollars from the hardworking Americans and putting them in the hands of people that decide they want to defraud the Federal Government when there is a consent decree and a resolution of a class-action lawsuit and the court wraps this up and says, Any claims that are not filed after this date are not valid. 
   We have no business in this Congress opening that back up again, because what we're doing is opening up the checkbook of the American taxpayer and handing a blank check to anybody, anybody that will come forward that's of color and say, Well, I wanted to farm; or, I would have liked to have filed for a loan; or, I did ask for one but nobody answered me; or, I went to the door and shook it but it was locked and it was or wasn't business hours. I may not know where the Farm Service Administration office is, but by golly, I wanted a farm and I was just so intimidated by their attitude I never tried. 
   All of these claims are rolling out here at us, and it's the taxpayers that will end up paying it, Mr. Speaker, $3 billion. Not $100 million. $3 billion wrapped up in the Farm Bill. 
   Another thing, Mr. Speaker, is the language that's in the Farm Bill that sets up and requires the Davis-Bacon wage scale for ethanol-production facilities and biodiesel-production facilities. Davis-Bacon wage scale. That, Mr. Speaker, is this: federally mandated union scale for construction workers out there in the rural areas of America in the corn belt, in the soybean belt, in the farm areas where we have merit shop employees, good employees, highly skilled employees. We pay them what they're worth. Some of us bring them in and we give them a full year-round job and we give them health insurance, retirement benefits. We want to keep them. We set up the scenario by which we can keep our employees. 
   But if we're compelled, when we're working on ethanol-production facilities or biodiesel-production facilities, to pay a federally mandated union scale, that means there will be fewer trainees, there will be fewer vocations, there will be fewer that learn the skills; and we'll have to go into the union hall and hire people out there and put them into the job. 
   And I can tell you how that works: If you got somebody out there that's worth $16 an hour and the Federal Government mandates said you pay them $26 an hour, then you bring them out and you put them to work and you set them in the seat of the machine and you work them hard for all 60 minutes of every hour, and the instant you don't need them again, boom, they're gone. You send them back off the job site. And then you put your salaried employees in, and they've got to grease the machines and scoop the dirt out of the tracks and fuel them, and you may or may not do the maintenance; and the next day they come again. And you drive them. You drive them. You use them like machines because you can't afford to bring them along and train them. They have to be there. They have to know. 
   But if we allow merit-shop employees and let the employers do the hiring and the employers make the deal with the employees, what business is it of the Federal Government to tell an employer and an employee, We won't let you two make a deal on what you're worth? If the employer thinks you're worth $14 an hour and the employee thinks that's a pretty good paycheck, the Federal Government might step in and say, No, you have to pay that man $18.50 because the lack of wisdom of this Federal Government somehow is that the employer is a victimizer and the employee is a victim. 
   I met with an employer last weekend--I guess it's two weekends ago now, Mr. Speaker--who said, Here's how it is. It was last weekend. If we are paying too low of wages, nobody shows up and wants the job, and we can't recruit people to come in here and go to work. If we're paying too much in wages, there's a lineup outside that door, people that want to come to work for the company that's paying too much money. 
   There's a happy medium in the middle. We provide that happy medium. We pay the wages we need to pay to get good employees to go to work, and it is supply and demand that determines what wages are, wages and benefit packages, including health insurance and retirement benefits. Those are the things that come with a labor market. 
   We don't need the Federal Government to mandate a union scale and call a prevailing wage. And by the way, Davis-Bacon wage scale is not and has not in my judgment ever been a prevailing wage. It's always been an imposed union scale, and it is, as far as I can remember. I can't think of another one. So I'm going to say I believe, Mr. Speaker, it is the last vestige of Jim Crow laws here in America because Davis-Bacon was designed to keep black construction workers out of the trade unions in New York City. That's a fact of history. It's a Jim Crow law designed to discriminate against black construction workers in the trade unions in New York City that happened in 1931. 
   It still has a process--I don't allege today that it's actively race-based, but we do know that the unions kind of sort who comes and who goes within their unions, and it's different from place to place and locale to locale across the country. But it is a union scale, not a prevailing wage; and if we're to go out and do the survey, there are States that impose mini Davis-Bacon, they call it, which distorts the pay scale, too. 
   If supply and demand sets the price for oil and for gas and for ethanol and for biodiesel, it also sets the price for crude oil, for corn and beans and gold, and all of those commodities. Supply and demand, Mr. Speaker, needs to set the price for labor as well. It will do that without the Federal Government's help, and we will not build the renewable energy infrastructure that we could have built with Davis-Bacon requirements in this Farm Bill that's coming up. 
   We will not, and in fact, the Davis-Bacon scale drives the price up someplace between 8 and 35 percent of the cost of the project. I use 20 percent because that's the most common when you look at it. And I have worked in this all of my life. Nobody else in this Congress has the experience I have with the Davis-Bacon wage scale. 
   So 8 to 35 percent increase in the cost, averaging at 20 percent. That just tells you this: If you want to build five ethanol plants, strike the Davis-Bacon provision. If you only want to build four ethanol plants to save money, ride the thing out. If you want to build an apprenticeship program, a job skill that comes from within, something that emerges from companies that are training employees and building up this knowledge base, if you want to  build that, don't have Davis-Bacon in there. You have to have a merit shop to get that done. 
   If you want the knowledge base in the Midwest where the renewable energy is so when we build out all of our energy plants and we get that done, we can export that knowledge and go around the world, you've got to strike Davis-Bacon, Mr. Speaker. If you want the Midwest to be to renewable energy what Texas is today to the expertise on oil, you've got to strike Davis-Bacon. You can't have that provision in there. 
   We need to grow the size of the energy pie, Mr. Speaker, and we cannot suspend the laws of nature and nature's God. You can't suspend the laws of gravity. The sun comes up in the east around Maryland and the eastern shore. It doesn't come up around San Francisco, and if you believe otherwise, you're out there in Pe-la-la-losi-land. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONFLICT IN THE MIDDLE EAST -- (House of Representatives - April 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Georgia and appreciate your yielding, Mr. Gingrey. 
   Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor tonight to join with my colleagues to raise our voices in unison in support of our Commander in Chief and the Commander of the Iraqi forces, General Petraeus, with whom I have had a significantly long working relationship for quite some time, and for all the troops that have fallen in line behind the Commander in Chief and behind General Petraeus all the way out across the board. 
   I have personally made five trips to Iraq. I've been to Afghanistan. Each time that I go over there, I stop in at Landstuhl. I visit the wounded. I see the price that's being paid. I see the dedication in their eyes. And I believe it's a little stronger in the eyes of those at Landstuhl than it is in those who are standing at attention in Iraq or those that are on duty in Iraq. But all them, all of them, have put their lives on the line. They are all volunteers. 
   And I think back to a time at a Thanksgiving dinner in Baghdad actually, and the command sergeant major gave me that look that was like I'd like to talk to you off on the side. And I walked over to the side, and he said, I know war is expensive, but we're all volunteers here. We are not just volunteers for this mission. We have volunteered for the military. We've all re-upped since the beginning of this war, and we all knew that we had a very high likelihood of being deployed here. We want to come here. And I volunteered for this because I want to take this fight from my children and my grandchildren. I want it done in my time. I know war is expensive, but you can't say ``no'' to us. You cannot pull us out now, not after this sacrifice, not this time. We have got to finish this fight that's before us. 
   And that's a conversation I will never forget, and I will never forget the look in his eye as he delivered that to me. That's some of the best that we have, our command sergeant majors. And this one fried that into my memory. And I think he has expressed for the fighting men and women over there what they want us all to hear on the floor of Congress and what they want the American people to know. If they're willing to take the risk, if they're willing to provide the sacrifice, how are we to say ``no''? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONFLICT IN THE MIDDLE EAST -- (House of Representatives - April 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Georgia. And I just left a table of marines that are all on multiple tours of duty in Iraq or Afghanistan, and a couple of them were decorated with Purple Hearts and serving in places like Fallujah. And you look them in the eye, and you see what they're asking us to do: Just back us. Just stand behind us. Don't undermine us. Stand behind us. 
   I take us back to the Vietnam war. I picked up the book written by General Giap, who was credited with what they call their victory for the Vietnamese, for North Vietnam. In that book on page 8, as I recall the page, page 8, there's a little phrase in there where he says they got our first inkling that we could defeat the United States when we saw that they didn't press for a total victory in Korea. A negotiated settlement in Korea gave Vietnam the inspiration to fight the war against us not only on the ground in Vietnam, where they paid multiple prices in lives beyond ours, but to do it in the public airwaves across the country. The protests that went on in the streets here and across in Europe were all part of their war strategy. The liberal media undermining the effort was all part of their war strategy. That doesn't mean they called the shots for the media, but they were complicit in this. And as the will of the American people was broken down by biased information and sometimes misinformation, they understood this: The bottom line in the book Principles of War by von Clausewitz, a summary of his analysis is the object of war is to defeat the will of the enemy. 
   So the voices that come out from this side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, are the voices of defeat, not the voices of victory. They are undermining the will of the American people. The press is playing into that. We should be standing with our troops. 
   And I walked down the steps in the Cannon building, and I presume he was a veteran. He reached up and he said, ``Support our troops,'' and shook my hand. And I said, ``I will and I will continue to be there.'' But I missed a beat or I would have said ``and their mission'' because you can't support the troops without supporting their mission. You can't ask people to go off and put their lives on the line for something you don't believe in. 
   I believe in this. The Iraqi people believe in this. And today they know something they didn't know a year ago or 4 years ago, two big points that they understand, that's part of their national understanding: One is the Americans and the coalition forces are not there to occupy. We don't want to be there to occupy. We want them to have their freedom. The second thing is we're not there for the oil, or we would have taken it by now. We want the Iraqi people to live and breathe free. 
   Yesterday I had a lunch with an individual who was instrumental in bringing Benazir Bhutto to Iowa as she gave a keynote address shortly after September 11. I sat down with her on a couch afterwards one on one, and I asked her, How do we get to the point of victory? How do we defeat al Qaeda and our enemy? 
   And her answer was, You've got to give them freedom. 
   You've got to give them a chance at democracy. If you do that, they'll change their focus from hatred towards taking care of their families, their communities, their neighborhoods, their jobs, and their mosques. 
   And I look back on that conversation. Sadly, we have lost her, her voice for freedom, but there is a piece of wisdom in that that the American people need to understand. Iraqi people are now breathing free. They weren't free before. The Afghani people are breathing free. They weren't free there ever. Today there are 50 million people that are free because of the sacrifice of U.S. and coalition troops and because of the inspiration that we provide for the world, and that is a very big thing to hand on to the next generations. 
   And as we watch the Bush administration move towards that last month in office, and we have many months to go yet, but when it gets to that point, I'm going to say this: I believe history will treat President Bush a lot more kindly than the media has treated him in this time when they write objectively what it means to have the strong leadership in the Commander in Chief, to have an all-volunteer military that's doing a better job than we could have ever asked anybody to do, and they say let us finish our task. The Iraqis say let us finish our task. They're paying their price. We need to hold up our end of this bargain, and we need to support General Petraeus. 
   And I yield back to the gentleman from Georgia, and I thank him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ISSUES AFFECTING THE WORLD -- (House of Representatives - April 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I am quite pleased to come to the floor and be recognized to address you. I am especially honored to be the first Member of Congress to address this Congress after Dean Popps has been appointed, as has just been read into the Record. I want to talk about two patriotic Americans this evening, and then transition to some other subject matter. 
   Dean Popps is one of those who has served his country, and done it very well. He was one of the first people to go into Iraq as part of the team with Paul Bremer, a person who gave up a pretty easy path here in the United States that he had earned for himself to take on a very difficult and challenging path to serve his country. I have seen him stand as we loaded wounded on to planes at Landstuhl, his hand over his heart and a tear in his eye.     
   And he will serve this country very well on the appointment that has just been read into the Record. And I look forward to the results of that service as I have seen the results of his past service. It is a matter of coincidence that I arrive here to hear the reading, and I can't pass up the opportunity to say a few kind words about the most qualified individual that could possibly come forward to serve on the commission. I look forward to that service, Madam Speaker. 
   Then, I also have come to the floor to convey a message, that conveys a message to you, Madam Speaker, that reflects across the United States Congress in listening to the remarks that were made by the previous speakers, including the gentleman from Florida, about our operations in this global war on terror; and global war on Islamic Jihadists is a more appropriate way to address our enemy. 
   Our enemy has a global presence, and they are attacking us globally and they have been doing that for 20 or more years, perhaps more than 25 years, in the modern era here, and we need to recognize who they are. Our soldiers and our troops recognize who they are, but there seems to be a myopic vision on the part of a lot of Members of Congress that happen to be right now in the majority. And I regret that I have seen this war turned into a political tug-of-war rather than a policy that we are committed to, and we are committed to in large numbers, to grant the authority to engage in the liberation of the Iraqi people. 
   And now that this has gone on for a while, and even though the casualties in the beginning were far, far less than those predicted by the very detractors today that say that the accumulated casualties over the last 5 years are more than this Nation can bear and that we should leave Iraq under any circumstances, according to their view, and let the calamity begin. 
   Well, the calamity began in the aftermath of Vietnam, and the body count by the time the killing fields in Cambodia were totaled up was some number between 2 million and 3 million people. 
   But today, because of the courageous actions on the part of all of our military, and that absolutely includes our Commander in Chief, the 25 or 26 or so million in Afghanistan breathe free. They voted for the first time on that piece of real estate on the planet, ever, because of U.S. and coalition forces liberating them. And there have been a number of elections in Iraq and another one coming up, a place where we can't say that they actually had a representative form of government. No constitutional republic existed there. 
   Today, they have a significant measure of freedom, and in fact their safety and security has improved dramatically, partly and in a large way because of the result of the surge, also because of the result of the diplomacy that takes place, not on the part of some of the self-appointed emissaries that think that they should be the Lone Ranger on American foreign policy, those who don't seem to understand our Constitution or the Logan Act. 
   No, Madam Speaker. I am talking about the American soldier, the American Marine, the American Airman, and the Sailors too, and particularly the Seabees that are on the ground, that are playing soccer with the Iraqi kids and handing out candy and nurturing them and saving children, saving their lives, and teaching them a little bit of English and learning a little bit of Arabic and being part of the cultural exchange. Those are the people that are earning the peace, and their lives are on the line, and every one of them is a volunteer. And they want to complete their mission, Madam Speaker. 
   This brings me to a message that I received in my e-mail, I am going to say a couple of weeks ago that I received this e-mail. It is from a Captain Sean P. O'Brien, 5th Battalion, 25th Field Artillery, 4th Brigade, 10th Mountain Division, a forward operating base somewhere in Iraq, and I will not divulge that location. I have watched as an older boy and then a young man, Sean O'Brien, grow up and learn patriotism and the cost of freedom, and know that some had to serve and some would sacrifice, and he volunteered to do so. He is a decorated veteran. He received a Purple Heart in Afghanistan, and went back into the theater of war and now he is there in Iraq. And he sent this e-mail to me, and, Madam Speaker, I would like to read it into the Record. Captain Sean P. O'Brien. 
   Hello again from Baghdad. I am not sure what is going on in the news these days, but I would like to offer another perspective. 
   As important as it is to the media to sensationalize a story, the nuisance of these attacks is just that. If there was ever a time that we were taking the wood to these jerks, it is now. The few that are causing the problems, and I mean the few, seem to be cut off, and they are fighting like it. They are making incredibly huge tactical errors, and their support seems to wane very easily in the face of the coalition and Iraqi Security Forces' resolve. 
   I have seen with my own eyes the bravery of the Iraqi Army. They really are fighting for their country, and they are making the kinds of sacrifices we like to remind ourselves of our own heroes. The Iraqi police, not as successful, but still holding their own, especially when they know that we have got their backs. 
   I hate this job. I hate being away from Dawn and the kids, but I love seeing the enemy's cowardice and the inconsistencies disintegrate into their death when they are met with deliberate and disciplined prosecution. They push teachers and kids out of schools and fight from the schoolhouses. They arrange coordinated attacks from mosques. I suppose, as any insurgent would, their best weapon is a booby trap. 
   By the way, a person who revolts against civil authority or an established government is an insurgent. Please note, established government. 
   The largest share of the attacks has been aimed at anything that represents the government, not so much coalition forces. Our mission is to protect the populous. The populous wants to be safe, and they demonstrate it. The Iraqi Army is getting stronger every day, and they give their lives for it. The enemy is very reactive and therefore easily predicted. 
   Something to think about. We are not leaving here. No one has told me this, but I do know that over the last 60 years we still have troops in the following places: Korea, Japan, and Germany. What is the difference? Hazard pay? Only a rhetorical question, he notes. 
   And Captain O'Brien goes on: 
   All countries are now contributing culturally and economically. Is the sacrifice any different now than it was then? Was it worth it to help them out? Is it worth it now? 
   To leave this place would be the same as standing by, idly watching your neighbors's house burn to the ground. It is irresponsible and it is morally wrong to ever consider such a thing. 
   Freedom is so important. It is one thing to say it; it is another completely to watch someone die for it or for someone else's. 
   All citizens and all governments are obliged to work for the avoidance of  war. However, as long as the danger of war persists and there is no internal authority with the necessary competence and power, governments cannot be denied the right of lawful self-defense once all peace 
   efforts have failed. 
   It is personal. The enemy wants to kill us because we are Americans. There is nothing else they want. They hate us; they hate who we are and what we represent. There is nothing to offer an extremist except extreme measures. However, all of that is just an effect. 
   Is it moral to fight an effect and not a cause? Yes; when your inaction means a culture will suffer for generations. 
   The real issue to consider is possibly: What is there to gain by a destabilized Iraq? And, who is to gain? 
   At the end of the day, the evaluation of these conditions and for the moral legitimacy belongs to the prudential judgment of those who have the responsibility for the common good. That is you and me, the American. 
   And back to the destabilizers. Imagine a few of these cowards kidnapping a loved one of yours, beating them, and then filming your loved one on their knees. You hear the words ``Allahu Akbar'' chanting in the background, meaning ``God is great,'' and then you watch these hooded cowards saw the head off of your loved one with a dull knife. Fear is their only actual weapon, and this weapon is not effective in the face of a self-aware citizen army and populous such as the Americans and, soon, as the Iraqis will be. 
   Interesting that Senator Obama wants to immediately sully the prestige of his sought office by offering an open meeting to those who want our Nation to burn. To give away the store is the best analogy I can think of. No matter. 
   Captain O'Brien goes on: I have faith in the American people not to allow that conflicted man to represent the United States in any way. So naive, yet the amount of naivety seems to demonstrate that his intentions are calculated. 
   You should be proud of our Joes and Joeys over here. All are still giving some, and some have and are going to give all. But don't mourn them; honor them, and understand the sacrifice they are making and for whom they are making it. 
   Have a great day. It will be good to come back when we are done. 
   Captain Sean P. O'Brien, 5th Battalion, 25th Field Artillery, 4th Brigade, 10th Mountain Division, Baghdad. 
   Madam Speaker, that is a sample of the e-mails that I get. And that I think is the most profound one and among the most compelling, and I think it tells the body and the American people what goes on in the minds and the hearts of our uniformed Soldiers, Airmen, Marines, and Sailors over there. 
   And as I looked them in the eye on that soil and they ask me, how could anyone consider calling us home before we finish our mission? And they repeat to me that they are all volunteers. Every single one that serves in that theater is a volunteer. They volunteered for their branch of the service. They have, in doing so, that period of time that they have signed up or re-upped for is certainly a period of time in which they knew that they were likely to be deployed over to that part of the world. 
   They are willing to put their lives on the line for our freedom, our liberty, and our posterity, Madam Speaker. And for us to sit back here and argue that we are tired; we are tired, when they are the ones that are fighting this war? What has America sacrificed? We have sacrificed some of our sons and daughters. We have given them a great deal in Iraq and around the world. Blood and treasure is priceless, and blood is far more priceless than treasure. 
   We have given them a great deal, but the price that has been paid by the individual American is small in comparison to what is being paid by our military that are standing there in their uniforms, volunteering, saying: Let us complete our mission. Let us be victorious and then come home. Let us leave a legacy of freedom in Iraq and in Afghanistan and across the world. 
   And think what the map of the world looks like. It sometimes takes courage. Sometimes it takes a level of leadership to do the noble thing. And, Madam Speaker, I wonder sometimes if we have lost our ability to take ourselves back to what is noble and what is right and what is good and what is just. 
   But Ronald Reagan did the noble thing. He did the noble thing when he gave the speech when he said, ``Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall.'' 
   And, Madam Speaker, if the American people knew the story on how difficult it was for that language to remain in President Reagan's speech, how many Chicken Littles, how many people that wanted to play the cautious route, those that didn't have the courage, those that didn't want to be, could not and did not have the courage to do the noble thing, tried to pull that language out of Ronald Reagan's speech because they were afraid of what Gorbachev might do. They didn't like the idea that it would be adding to the tension and adding to the friction, because they were afraid of confrontation, Madam Speaker. And to fear confrontation means eventually you will have it, because it is the bullies of the world that will poke their finger in your chest. And if you fear the confrontation and step backwards to avoid the finger in your chest, then the bully will take a step forward and poke his finger in your chest again and again and again. 
   Countries, dictators, tyrants are the bullies of the world. And when you reach the point where you are up against the wall, then you can decide whether you are going to fight or whether you are going to grovel. But I can tell you, he has chosen that ground, and you make that decision on his terms, not yours. 
   The American people have been a bold people that have made the decisions on which ground to fight on our terms, not theirs. And Ronald Reagan made that decision when he stepped up and said, ``Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall.'' And that laid out that inspiration. And a few years later, the wall came tumbling down. 
   When that wall fell down in Berlin, I watched this unfold on the news, and that was when I knew I needed to go get cable TV and a broader news cycle, because the whole story for the analysts was how families that had been divided by the wall could now come together, and they were breaking champagne bottles in their family reunions on the wall. And some were there with hammers chiseling away at the Berlin wall. 
   They missed the point. It was weeks and weeks and weeks before you could find a mainstream media, talking head pundit that even would utter the words that were close to the truth that most of us commonsense American people saw as we watched it on TV when the Berlin wall came down, hammers and chisels, a piece at a time. That was literally, literally, the Iron Curtain came crashing down. 
   The Iron Curtain that was constructed across Europe at Yalta on February 11, 1945 came crashing down beginning November 9, 1989. And the analysts in America didn't understand what that meant, and they didn't understand what it meant when Ronald Reagan said, ``Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall.'' They didn't understand what it meant when Pope John Paul, now The Great, uttered his words and weighed in on this and gave an inspiration to the Christian reformation of Europe. And, how those minds and those voices together gave inspiration, along with Margaret Thatcher who, when she looked at Gorbachev and talked with him and met him, said to Ronald Reagan, ``This is a man with whom we can do business.'' 
   And I don't know how good of a business he did for the interests of the Soviet Union since it collapsed some time later, but the business that got done was this, Madam Speaker. The strategy, the noble strategy of playing some brinksmanship, taking some risks, being bold, doing the American thing, doing the free world thing, and the contest was this. And Jean Kirkpatrick said it as she stepped down as ambassador to the United Nations, I think the year was 1984. Ironic that it would be, actually. But I remember her saying, and I read this in an article in the newspaper about page 3 or 4 in a tiny little three column inches; she said, what is going on as she resigned her ambassadorship to the United Nations: What is going on here in the conflict in the world, the Cold War, is the equivalent of playing chess and Monopoly on the same board. And the question was,  would the United States of America bankrupt the Soviet Union economically before the Soviet Union checkmated the United States militarily?     
   Mr. Speaker, that was the contest that was going on. Ronald Reagan understood that. Margaret Thatcher understood that, and I think Pope John Paul the Great understood that and upped the ante and took the risk and did the bold thing and challenged. When he challenged, it added inspiration to a people. When they found that the emperor had no clothes, that the bear had no teeth, the bear had no claws, and they found that the will was not there any longer on the part of the Soviet Union to exterminate people who were just trying to get over the wall for their freedom, then they defied authority, and almost bloodlessly the wall came down. The Iron Curtain came crashing down and freedom echoed all of the way across Europe clear to the Pacific Ocean. 
   Hundreds of millions of people breathed free because of that courage and that boldness and that nobility of Ronald Reagan, Margaret Thatcher, and Pope John Paul. 
   That kind of bold move is what it takes for people to achieve freedom. It was a bold move to draft and sign the Declaration of Independence and hang that out in the public square and understand that as they pledged their lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor, they well might be hanging in the public square as well, our Founders, that signed the Declaration. 
   They took that risk, and many of their lives were ruined. But the birth of this country began and freedom was inspired. A bold and noble act brought forth the United States of America. A bold and noble act brought down the Berlin Wall, crashed the Iron Curtain, and a bold and noble act freed the Iraqi and the Afghani people. 
   Mr. Speaker, taking myself back to those moments in history, the noble times when people have been bold and had the courage to take a risk and know that bad things could come out of a bold decision, but seldom do any better things come out of decisions that are not so bold. I could go through history and talk about the Declaration of Independence, as I stated. And additionally, Abraham Lincoln's signing of the Emancipation Proclamation, the boldness with which he stuck to his guns and said we will preserve the Union, and almost at any cost, and it was a high price that was paid. 
   And the boldness to which Abraham hung to the principle of freedom for all people. He said, ``As I would not be a slave, I would not be a master,'' and he acted on it. 
   My information from an accomplished historian is a story that I have to qualify because even though I am assured it is a true story, it is such a good story. Many things are attributed to Abraham Lincoln, so I am a little cautious. It is inspirational regardless of whether we can verify it to be fact. I have done some steps to verify. I believe it to be a fact, but I am not certain. 
   So I put that caveat in there, but I think it is important to consider this inspiration. 
   As Abraham Lincoln was considering whether to sign the Emancipation Proclamation, he had deliberated on it for some time. The political climate was different then than we imagine it might be. And he called his cabinet together. He spoke to the cabinet. 
   He said I have this Emancipation Proclamation, and I am seeking your counsel as to whether I should sign it. So he went around the table. They were all men in those days. And the first cabinet member, the first man said Mr. President, I don't think you should sign the Emancipation Proclamation because, after all you can't free anybody south of the Mason-Dixon Line because we don't occupy any of that territory and we have no authority since they have seceded from the Union, so it would be meaningless. President Lincoln listened. 
   Then he went to the next cabinet member. The next cabinet member said, Mr. President, I think it is meaningless because you can't free anybody by signing the Emancipation Proclamation. And furthermore, the African Americans who live north of the Mason-Dixon Line are already free. So it would be meaningless. 
   So he went to the third cabinet member who said, We have some people wearing our Union uniform that are fighting against the Confederates for other reasons. They want to bring the Union together, but they believe in slavery, and so you will lose some of the support of those soldiers who really aren't against slavery. They are there because they want to hold the Union together. 
   They went around the table. The cabinet was smaller then, but there was a different reason from each cabinet member. But each one advised President Lincoln, no, no, no, no, all of the way around the cabinet table. Every cabinet member advised President Lincoln do not sign the Emancipation Proclamation. 
   And the leadership of courage, the nobility of the man, President Lincoln looked at his cabinet members and he said, ``Well, gentlemen, the aye has it.'' 
   ``The aye has it,'' Mr. Speaker. That is courage. That is vision. That is nobility. That's the thing that we see out of our soldiers in places like Iraq and Afghanistan. And it is not getting easier in Afghanistan. The casualties are going up there. We do have support from a lot of our allies in Afghanistan, and we have significant support in Iraq from our allies there. 
   But we must not fold, we must not blink, we must not fail. We should listen to our uniformed military who are putting up the sacrifice. If I hear over here again, ``I am tired of this war,'' find me a volunteer soldier that is not tired of war. But the numbers of those who support finishing this thing with the honor of a victory, and those who anticipate, as I do, an Iraq that is free, a moderate, Arabic nation that will be an ally that has significant oil resources in the Middle East, one who will be inspiring to the rest of that part of the world, that part of the world that has been in constant conflict and turmoil for centuries, we need to work with this principle that free people don't go to war against other free people. 
   If we have free people in Iraq and Afghanistan, and we do, that happens to be on the west and the east border of Iran, respectively. As they see the prosperity and the peacefulness and the opportunity and the freedom that exists today and will be an expanding freedom in Iraq and Afghanistan, can anybody imagine that the Iranian people will not want to partake in that freedom and prosperity? They will be inspired by their neighbors. 
   We can see that part of the globe bond together, free people, moderate Islamic nations who control their own government, people with a voice in the destiny of their nation. That is what I envision and what President Bush envisions. That is what we need to have the courage and the nobility to stand with. In the long run, first it saves American lives in the long run. Second, it changes the habitat that breeds terror. 
   If you look around the world, we have a list of countries that are called nations of interest. The nations of interest are the nations that produce terrorists. The reason they do is because they have the habitat that produces terrorists. Some is poverty, some is religion, some is culture. There is a hatred of freedom there and there is a love of death, as we heard the gentleman from California in his presentation earlier this afternoon. 
   That habitat can be changed. And we have lost Benazir Bhutto to this world, to this temporal world that we are in at this time. I got to know her and I had a number of conversations with her. Upon our first meeting, it was shortly after September 11, and I sat down with her one-on-one in Storm Lake, Iowa, I would add. And I asked her a series of questions. 
   One of my questions was, How do we get to the point where we can achieve victory in this war since this is an amorphous enemy and it is not a command-and-control structure and there is not a piece of real estate that we can go and capture and occupy and say we won? How do we win and declare victory? How do we know when we have won? 
   Her answer was you've got to give them freedom. You've got to give them a chance at democracy. If you do that, they will change their focus from hatred and terror toward their families, their communities, their neighborhoods, their country, and their mosques. If they do that, they will no  longer be focused on hatred and I will pick it up from there. That is how we erase the habitat that breeds terrorists. 
   Another way to describe it, Mr. Speaker, is if you're sitting on your porch and a hornet should fly along and sting you on the arm, you are likely to swat the hornet and rub the arm a little bit. If it happens 2 weeks later, that is two too many, but it is not so alarming. But if the whole hive comes and stings one of your children or grandchildren to death, maybe 200 or 300 stings by 200 or 300 hornets, and for an unforeseen reason kills one of your family members, you no longer sit on the porch with your Raid can and your fly swatter. You go find the hive or hives, and you eradicate the habitat that breeds that kind of venom. 
   We are going another step here. We are eradicating the habitat that breeds that kind of venom, and we are replacing it with a positive habitat that breeds brotherly love and neighborly cooperation and common interest of commercial opportunity and an opportunity to weigh in to promote the destiny of their country. 
   All of those things come from the kind of mission that our military has been on, the kind of mission that Sean O'Brien has been on, and these things can and will flow from our efforts should we have the courage and the nobility to stand. 
   As I listened to my predecessor speakers, I am going to say illogical language about energy keeps coming forth from the microphones over on that side. 
   I would challenge them, and I would yield to anybody that comes up with a single thing that the Pelosi Congress has offered that put more energy on the market, anything that puts more Btus in the marketplace, that puts more gas into the market, more diesel fuel, more ethanol, more biodiesel, more wind or coal or nuclear or solar? Any single thing that has been proposed by the other side of the aisle that has put more energy into the marketplace? 
   I will yield if you can come up with an example. But I am going to say that answer is zilch. Not one, nada, no Btus more on the market. Every single move in these 15, going on 16 months of the 110th Congress, every single move by the Speaker's leadership has been to take energy off the market, make it more scarce. 
   I don't understand how the constituents for the people who advocate such a thing can tolerate suspending the law of supply and demand, making energy more scarce, driving the prices up. Gas prices are up 50 percent since Nancy Pelosi took the gavel; 50 percent. 
   We are paying $3.51 a gallon for gasoline today. Crude oil prices dropped a little today. They were almost $120 a barrel. They dropped about $6. That is about 5 percent. That is a good thing. 
   But to listen to the other side, Mr. Speaker, they ask us to believe the idea that somehow George Bush controls global oil prices, as if $120 a barrel for crude oil is something that only Americans are paying, but Europeans are not and Australians are not and Africans and South Americans are not. 
   The truth is this is a global market. If you really want to protect yourself from rising oil prices, you can hedge that on the futures market. Go buy yourself some barrels of oil. If you think oil is going up to $200 or $300 or $400 a barrel, buy some now. Invest in that now.     
   Invest that in the futures. You can protect your interest on that. But this is a global price. George Bush can't control the oil prices. Here's a news flash. A President of the United States can't do that. He can affect them, yes. This Congress can affect them too. But it has to do with how you affect the supply and what you do with the tax and the regulatory structure. 
   We need more refineries. We need to drill ANWR. We need to drill the Outer Continental Shelf. We need to drill the non national park public lands in America, and we need to build roads in distribution areas so that we can do that, so that we can deliver that oil to the marketplace. 
   And if we look around at what technology is doing, when oil prices went up, what happened? 
   Well, we know there's a huge oil supply in Northern Alberta in the tar sands, and we're working with the Canadians, and I hope the deal doesn't get destroyed by initiatives here that are anti-energy in this Congress, Mr. Speaker. 
   But we need to bring that pipeline down from Northern Alberta, and we bring that down into the heart of the United States and refine that crude oil of the Canadians and that huge supply that's there, and we need to tap into ANWR, and move to the east from where the north slope is, similar terrain and topography, and bring that oil into the domestic market of the United States; more importantly, get it on to the world market so we can cut down on, increase the supply so we can reduce the cost of the energy that we have. 
   If you saw that there was a report by USGS that they had identified an oil reserves in North Dakota, some spilling over into Montana; hopefully Mr. Pomeroy knows about this. I'm sure he does. 3.4 billion barrels of oil up there. And they have to go down nearly 2 miles and do horizontal sand fractionalization to make that happen. But that's a tremendous amount of oil that's domestic, two big oil finds. 
   We also have the Chevron find down on the Gulf Coast within the last two years, a huge oil find. And the Brazilians have tapped into an oil find, a couple of different ones that look like they could rank in the top three of the oil reserves for the world. And we know that the west coast of Africa has a tremendous amount of oil. 
   So let's get this going. Let's put a lot of oil on the market, a lot of energy on the market. 
   And, Mr. Speaker, I'd direct the body's attention to what really does control the cost of energy. This is a little chart that we made up that, it is a pie chart. And this represents, this pie chart is 360 degrees. It is the whole of the energy that, as energy consumed in the United States, last year in 2007. This is in Btus. So in case you'll know what this number is, Mr. Speaker, being an astute individual. 
   We consumed 101.5 quadrillion Btus last year in the United States of America. Of those 101.5 quadrillion Btus, it breaks out this way as a percentage: 23 percent natural gas, petroleum, gas, 39.24 percent, and you go on up the line. We've got coal at 22.4 percent, nuclear at 8.29. That's got to be a diminishing number because we haven't built a nuclear plant in the United States since about 1975 or maybe 1978. There happens to be one going in now in South Carolina. I am glad to see that. 
   Let's expand the nuclear. It's very clean and very safe. It's the safest electrical supply that we have in the United States. 
   The hydroelectric has not been expanding, either, and I'm all for expanding that. That sits at 2.3. Geothermal, small little piece there, wind, small little piece, solar, very small piece. Fuel ethanol, not as big as someone might think. .94 of 1 percent of the energy we consume in the United States is ethanol. And the biodiesel is .06 percent, not very big. 
   And then wood and waste is bigger. I think that's going to be your biomass, remainder of the biomass component of this. 
   The thing we need to do for energy in the United States is expand every one of these slices of the energy pie; put more Btus out in each one of these colored pie categories that we have; make this circle a lot bigger so that the number of Btus that we produce is great enough that it puts pressure and downward pressure on the market prices. That's our mission. That's an energy policy. 
   And by the way, another slice of that pie needs to be conservation. That's not in there. We need to add conservation to that as well, Mr. Speaker. 
   So as we move forward in this policy, let's keep in mind you can't suspend the law of supply and demand. We can't be living in ``Pah-la-la-losi Land.'' We've got to understand that what goes up must come down. That's the law of gravity. 
   The sun comes up in the east, not the west. It doesn't come up in San Francisco, it comes up over on the Atlantic ocean side of this. That's not going to change, and no amount of talking about it will change where the sun comes up. And no amount of talking is going to change the law of supply and demand, except taxes and regulation, which are going up on our energy producers, not down.  
   So I'll argue, Mr. Speaker, we need to supply more energy, not less. The idea that more expensive energy is a good thing for Mother Nature, that somehow, if you raise the price of gas to $3.51 or $4.50 or six bucks or seven bucks, that somebody's going to get on a bicycle and ride around town instead of driving around in their car, that may work in some occasions, but it doesn't work out very good for Grandma that's got to go 10 miles to town in January in Iowa. She can't put the chains on her bicycle and do that. She'll get in her car and she'll drive, and she'll pay a higher price out of her Social Security and her fixed limited income because you're driving up the price of gas; you're not driving it down. And it's limiting the quality of life, and people are having to make tough decisions. 
   We need to take action to put more energy on the market, not less. And if we do that, we can see these prices go down, not up. 
   And I'd add to that that the value of the dollar is a significant factor in this. The depreciation of the dollar, the dollar value needs to be shored up. A significant part of the cost of energy is because it takes more dollars to compete with the higher value currency in foreign countries, Mr. Speaker. 
   And so that is a summary of some of the things I came to the floor here to address. I want to thank you for recognizing me and the privilege of speaking here on the floor of the House of Representatives. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIENS SERVING AS TRANSLATORS OR INTERPRETERS WITH FEDERAL AGENCIES -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Florida for yielding to me in a gracious fashion, and I think there is another viewpoint that this Congress should be considering before we bring this to a vote on this suspension bill. 
   I start out with I believe there are two things wrong with this legislation that is before us here on the floor. The first one is current law limits the numbers to 50 interpreters who could be brought in legally, and we have a great big problem understanding the rule of law here in America. 
   Now, I haven't received satisfactory answers from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services or the State Department on how it is that, with a statutory limit of 50, and it says no more than 50, how was it that USCIS processed nearly 500 applications on an annual basis; and how was it that the State Department was poised to grant, but prohibited by law from granting, these visas for the interpreters from Iraq? 
   Now, I join my colleagues in praising and celebrating the brave service to our coalition personnel by the interpreters that have done such a good job in saving probably dozens or hundreds of American lives over there. In fact, I have a personal friend who served as an interpreter, and he carries a scar on his wrist from one of Saddam's henchmen who attacked him for being lined up with our side of this argument. I understand from a very personal basis what kind of risk is there and how their lives are at risk, but I would point out that we have such a thing as the rule of law. 
   Mr. Speaker, current law said 50. I offered an amendment, and that amendment would have limited the amount of applications that could be processed by USCIS to the statutory limit. It wasn't because I think 50 is the right number, and I don't take a position on whether I think 500 is the right number, but it was because I believe the rule of law is sacrosanct. And if we are going to allow USCIS process up to 500 applications, and then come here to this Congress and say, well, gee, we must have been wrong because we have 500 applicants, not 50; or, we have no choice because it is implicit that we have promised these people that we are going to grant them the visas, how did we make a promise that exceeded Federal law? And what do we do if there are 2,500 the next time the USCIS processes? How do we adhere to the rule of law if we react to people who stretch the limits? The people within USCIS, who I actually don't blame at this point, but we are here trying to keep our word. At the same time, we are ignoring the rule of law. 
   Those two things don't sit very well with me. That is the number one issue. 
   And the next issue is something I do think we need to think about, and that is the tactical side of this. This results in not 1,000 new interpreters, but 900, because 500 was the annual limit. So it is 900 over a 2-year period of time. So that is 900 fewer interpreters to save more lives of American and coalition forces. Tactically we need to consider that. We need to understand that someone needs to be there to rebuild Iraq, someone needs to be there to defend Iraq. If 25,000 go to Sweden, that is another 25,000 of some of the finest citizens that will not be there to put Iraq back together. 
   Our job isn't to bring everybody here to save their livelihood here in the United States. We need to export our way of life; we need to encourage the Iraqis to rebuild their country. This depletes the resources. 
   But that is only, Mr. Speaker, my secondary argument. My primary argument is the rule of law. The rule of law should be sacrosanct and shouldn't be violated. And if we are going to pass this legislation, we should have adopted my amendment that limited the applications that USCIS can process to the statutory limit. If we did that, then I would have some confidence that we are going to adhere to the rule of law. As it is, I do not believe we will do that, and I think this turns out to be not probably the last, but the first amnesty bill that might pass off the floor of the 110th Congress. And if we don't have any more respect for the rule of law than we are showing here, then we are reacting to our own bureaucrats that, I will submit, that it is going to be difficult for us to adhere to the rule of law when it is 12 million or 20 million as opposed to 400 or 500 or 900 people. 
   I think that makes my point, Mr. Speaker. I thank the gentleman from  Florida for his consideration and the time to make my case. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIENS SERVING AS TRANSLATORS OR INTERPRETERS WITH FEDERAL AGENCIES -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman, and I ask him for that privilege because I know he is a reasonable individual and very thoughtful on the immigration policy. But I am under the understanding that we are here changing the law almost after the fact to comply with the limitation that has been exceeded in its anticipation by the people who were promised that they would have an opportunity to get a visa if they served the United States in that capacity as interpreters. 
   Isn't that true? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIENS SERVING AS TRANSLATORS OR INTERPRETERS WITH FEDERAL AGENCIES -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. And I thank the gentleman. But for a point of clarity, we are here. We are amending current law because we essentially have a promise we can't keep without amending current law. And that fits within a definition of amnesty, to amend current law, because if we enforce current law, there will be some people that will be penalized by that. And I don't take so much issue on this as I do the law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIENS SERVING AS TRANSLATORS OR INTERPRETERS WITH FEDERAL AGENCIES -- (House of Representatives - May 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. If the gentleman would yield, I would submit that Congress needs to set the number. And for USCIS to process the applications beyond the statutory number is a waste of resources. But if we believe that we should raise that number, then we should come back and grant that authority to do so. 
   I see us as reacting to promises that were made that went beyond the limitations of the statute. That is why we have to change the statute today. That could preserve the rule of law and still preserve the numbers that the gentleman is proposing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IMMIGRATION REFORM -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I am privileged to be recognized by the gentleman from Eastern Iowa and privileged to have the opportunity and the honor to address you, Mr. Speaker, on the floor of the United States Congress. 
   A lot of things have transpired since we took the week off from this Congress for the Presidents' recess, we call it, which was really a work period back in the district. And our constituents and those in the State of Iowa and in some of the areas north and east of us went through a severe, severe ice storm that tens of thousands of them are without power as we speak. And I know that you and I have an eye on that very closely, and we do though have a great confidence in the resiliency of the human spirit back in the Midwest, and friends and neighbors will step forward to do all they can. And what is within human possibility will be done and things will be taken care of there, Mr. Speaker. 
   So having that off my mind, I take up the subject matter that I came to address this evening. And it has been some time since I stepped here on the floor of the House of Representatives, Mr. Speaker, to talk about an issue that is the number one issue as I go around western Iowa and Iowa and other places in the country and have meetings with individuals, town hall-type meetings. 
   Whenever a group of people come together, if you ask questions, stand and listen, eventually the subject of immigration will come up. And it has been the most intensely watched subject and discussed subject perhaps over the last 3 years or a little more, Mr. Speaker. 
   I recall when President Bush gave his speech that laid out his vision on the immigration reform, and I believe the date was January 6 of 2004. I am not off by more than a day, if that. And that speech started us down this path and this Nation of having an open dialogue about what kind of a Nation we are and what kind of a Nation we are to become. And this is something that has embroiled most of the discussion across the country. Everybody has an opinion. It is a good thing, Mr. Speaker, a healthy debate. 
   I recall when Pat Buchanan ran for the Presidency back in 1966, he said: I will call for hearings. I will force a debate on this country. We have got to have a national debate so that we can come to a consensus and put this country down the path towards its future.     
   We have been intensively debating this issue of immigration for the last 3 years, and that would be all of 2004, 2005 and 2006 and we find ourselves now into 2007. So I would say we are about 38 months into this intense discussion, and the results we have from this are hard to measure at this point. One of the reasons is because it is a very convoluted and complicated issue. 
   We have a configuration here in America that doesn't necessarily promote the right kind of policy. I say that, I am cautious about how I address it, because first of all, I will recognize that there are employers who have premised their business plan on hiring illegal labor. 
   I can recall in an agricultural hearing that I attended in Stockton, California last year, there was a lady there, there was a witness, before our Agriculture Committee who ran, I believe it was organic, a truck farming operation where they raised peppers and those kinds of vegetables down south of Yuma near the border. 
   Her complaint was, well, we set up these farms in processing and we need over 900 people a day to operate the harvesting and the sorting and the packaging and the shipments of this crop every day. Now that we have done a better job of enforcing the border, then her lament was that they have a turnover of 9 percent per week, 9 percent of their labor supply per week, it is about 80, and they are having trouble filling their labor supply. 
   So I asked the question, where did you expect your labor supply to come from when you placed your business close to the border? And the answer was, of course, well we expected our labor to come over from Mexico and come work on our farms and then go back to their homes. Well, that would be illegal labor working on farms south of Yuma with the idea that was the plan from the beginning. 
   Now, the request was, come to Congress and ask us to legalize this illegal behavior. It was a planned strategy from the very beginning of the setup of the business operation. 
   I lay this out because this is not a unique circumstance across this country. In fact, it is becoming a standard practice. I am seeing it more and more again as businesses set up to run their operation, whether it is going to be food processing or farming or maybe a dairy operation, and they decide, we are going to need labor to do this. 
   We would like to go forward with our plan and put our infrastructure in place, invest our capital, buy our cows, get our equipment up and get an order in. We will have to hire some illegal labor to milk the cows. 
   I had a dairyman tell me a couple of weeks ago that 51 percent of the milk in this country are milked by people that don't speak English. That doesn't necessarily indicate they are illegal immigrants in America, but that would indicate that a significant percentage of them most likely are. 
   That is some of the scenario. Some of the scenario on the one side is business interests that can capitalize on cheap labor. Believe me, when you pour millions of people into a labor market that are illiterate and unskilled that will work cheaper than anybody else, you are going to drive that labor down. 
   There was a report that was issued here within the last few weeks that shows that the unskilled labor in America has lost 12 percent of its earning capacity because they are flooded. There was a report on Fox News about a month ago that we have a 30 percent high school dropout rate in America, 30 percent dropout rate. 
   So if the students in high schools are dropping out at a 30 percent rate, and we are bringing in illegal labor that will work for the cheapest price, it seemed to me, and we know this to be a fact, that the competition between our high school dropouts and the people that didn't go to school, many of  them, from foreign countries that come in, would be clashing in competition for those jobs that require a low education. Maybe they require a strong back and some resilience and persistence. 
   But the opportunity for undereducated, especially young people in America, those dropouts, those that go on to get a college education, those opportunities, are going to people that are living sometimes 22 or 30 to a house. They will work cheaper than anybody else. 
   What has happened is our young people that don't want to go off to college, maybe they are not blessed with the ability to do that, maybe they just decide, I want to punch a clock, I want to wear a blue collar, not a white collar. I am happy enough to go do some labor for my life, but leave me alone. Let me take care of my wife and my family. Let me go fishing once in a while, but I don't really want to go off to college and study. Those opportunities are diminishing significantly in America. What that spells is the narrowing of the middle class in America. 
   We are doing a good job of educating the people in the higher end, those that go off and get their master's and their doctorate. Those will become professional people that often start out at college at six figures and go up from there. That part, that percentage of our population is growing significantly. I am grateful that is the case. We have encouraged a lot of young people to move off into the professions, and they are doing that. That is to the credit of our educational system in this country. 
   So the upper class is expanding, and there is money being made. We have had unprecedented economic growth thanks to the Bush tax cuts, both rounds in 2001 and in 2003. We have had this unprecedented string of growth. That has helped lift investors up, lift entrepreneurs up, and, of course, the professionals have been lifted up also because there is more money in the market. 
   So the upper class of America is growing and expanding and prospering. The lower class in America, that unskilled cheap labor, is also growing in numbers, but not growing in prosperity. 
   As we see the stratification of this society, and think of it in terms of a healthy America that once had a growing ever-more-prosperous middle class is now becoming an America that has a growing, ever-more-prosperous upper class, a growing ever-more-prosperous lower class, and a shrinking more suppressed, more constrained middle class. 
   That is the scenario that is driven by illegal immigration in America, and illegal immigration in America keeps us from having a legitimate debate on the subject matter of how we might go about recruiting the best people we can find to come into the United States, those that will assimilate the most easily, those that bring their already trained skills, those that will be contributors instead of those that are drawing down off of the public system. Those will be contributors in the first day, the first week, the first month, the first year. 
   They are across this world with good educations, and they would love to come to America, and they fit into our economy. All you have to do is teach them their ZIP code and their area code and hand them a cell phone, and in a week you wouldn't know that they were not born here. They would assimilate into this culture and into this civilization. 
   But we can't carry on a reasonable discussion about how to skim the cream of the world off like we used to do, bring them into America so that we can enhance this American exceptionalism. We can't get there because the entire debate has clouded because we are not controlling our borders. We are not stopping the illegal traffic at our borders. We are not doing an adequate job of employer sanctions, although we have had some significant efforts of late, and that means that there is a magnet that draws people across the border. That is the issue that we are dealing with, and the price for Americans is horrendous. 
   I went back down to the border last week. I spent 2 days down there. I flew into Phoenix and then took a ride from Phoenix on down to Yuma. I joined Secretary Chertoff there at the Yuma station along with the chief of the Border Patrol, David Aguilar, and a number of Members of Congress and a couple of Senators. We went down south, just on the south edge of San Luis, which is the most southwesterly town in Arizona on the Mexican border. 
   There, for some time, they have had about a 12-foot high steel landing mat wall placed almost exactly on the border. That has been the only barrier that they have had between the two semiurban areas that are there. 
   Well, here in Congress, last fall, we passed the Secure Fence Act, and the Secure Fence Act mandates that the administration build not 700 miles of fence, but 854 miles of double fence/wall on our southern border in the most priority areas that are defined in the bill. Those priority areas, when you go back and you measure the distances there in the bill, it adds up to 854 miles. One of those priority areas is San Luis where we went to visit. 
   At that priority area, they are beginning to construct fencing there, and at least it is a start. I can't call it a great start or a good start, but at least it is a start. They have a start to building the kinds of structures we need to stop the illegal crossings that are taking place at our border. 
   There with about 12-foot high steel landing mat wall which each of us stopped and took a turn welding on there a little bit, I wish I could have stayed and gotten a little work done, it felt kind of good, but there we lent a hand to continuing construction of the wall on the border. Inside about 100 feet, they had constructed a 16-foot high steel mesh fence, and that has got a metal frame on top of it. The steel mesh is essentially impenetrable unless you take a torch or something to cut it with. 
   So from the steel wall on the border, 100 feet back, 16-foot high steel mesh fence or wall, and then another about 40 feet and there is about a 10-foot high chain link fence with three to four barbs on top, it looks like a playground fence, actually. As we discussed the effectiveness of the structures that they had put in place, and we are continuing to construct at San Luis, Arizona, I asked the question if anyone had made it through that area since they had gotten the triple fencing up. 
   The answer came back, well, we have had several that have made it through here; but 2 years ago, there were 138,000 illegal crossers who were interdicted by the Border Patrol in that area. 
   Since October of last year, until just last week, they were now down to 15,000 that had passed across the border. Now that is not a full year, obviously, so it is not quite apples to apples, but it is significantly fewer illegal crossings there. 
   But then I asked the specific question again, has anyone gone through this area where the triple fencing is? The answer is, well, we think, maybe, yes, three. How did they get through here? A couple of them perhaps went through the waterway and maybe one went around. 
   The next question, of course, was more finely tuned which is, has anyone defeated this triple fencing yet? The answer is, no, they have not defeated the triple fencing, but they said they will; all structures we put in place will be defeated. We have to work, we have to maintain them. 
   I have to agree. I think you have to maintain them. I think you have to patrol them. I think you need to put sensors on them so you can identify if somebody is trying to climb through over the top or under the bottom or cut through, and that, I believe, is in the mix. 
   So we did a driving tour on the border and from there, San Luis, drove along the east, along the border, and the triple fencing reduces down to double fencing. The 10-foot chain link doesn't go all that far yet. It is being extended. Then pretty soon the 16-foot high second layer of fence is under construction, but it is not there either. 
   You are just down to the steel wall, and not very long after that, the steel wall is gone, and you are left with the construction of the steel wall that is being put in place. It extends from San Luis off to the east. If I remember right, they were going to extend it about 19 miles to the east. We are a long ways to go on that yet. 
   But we got up, in a couple of Black Hawks, and flew the border then going east from there, in the southwest corner, all the way almost to Nogales and  then turned around and went on up to Tucson. As you fly along the border, you will see there are places the border isn't even marked. There is just sand, not a fence. There is a little trail on our side, and there is a Highway 2 on their side. But there is not a mark of where the border is in many of those locations. 
   It has been an easy prospect for people on the Mexican side of the border to drive along on Highway 2 in Mexico, decide they want to go to the United States, turn the steering wheel off of Highway 2, go out across the desert to the north, and end up on a road 10 or 20 miles to the north, driving through the desert and come out on that road, and, voila, they are home free in the United States of America. 
   That has been going on consistently and continually. It is being done by people smugglers; it is being done by drug smugglers. So along that stretch, they are constructing also a vehicle barrier. And this vehicle barrier exists of, I believe it is 5 inch by 5 inch steel tubing that is driven in on about 5 or 6 foot centers with that tubing welded to it at about bumper high on a vehicle or on a pickup truck, and then concrete poured inside those posts. 
   That does keep most of those vehicles from crashing through, so it makes pedestrians of people who want to come to the United States. It is a little slower way to travel through the desert. We happen to have discovered, I don't know, 25 or 50 miles east of San Luis, a group of about 20 illegals who were perhaps about half a mile into the United States, and they had clustered around the base of a mesquite tree. As we turned the helicopters around and we turned back to take a look, the rotor wash on a Black Hawk is pretty severe in the desert, and it was something that encouraged them to head south rather briskly. So they headed south towards the Mexican border, and we apparently called for backup and then moved on. 
   But there in broad daylight, a half a mile north of the border with traffic going back and forth on the Mexican highway on Highway 2, were a group of about 20 illegals, working their way across the desert. If we run across them with the type of, I will say, helicopter caravan we were in, then that was not an anomaly. That was something I would say would be standard practice that goes on a daily basis.     
   But most of the activity, Mr. Speaker, takes place at night. And I have gone down on the border at night and sat on the fence in the dark and listened, and just listened, not with night vision equipment but just listened. And over time, you hear vehicles come in from the Mexican side and drive with their lights off down through the mesquite brush, stop by a big mesquite tree about 150 yards south of the border, let their cargo out, which were people and packs and you can hear them get out. You can hear them drop their pack on the ground. Presumably they pick them back up again. There will be some hushed whispers and then, Mr. Speaker, they will, single file, come walk through the mesquite brush through the fence, and I am talking about a place further east in Arizona where there is a fence, and climb through the five barbed wire fence. 
   You can hear the fence kind of squeak and you see the shadows. You can't really count shadows, especially when you are sitting there in the dark. It is awfully hard to be certain of what you see, but it is not that hard to be certain of what you hear in an environment like that. So I will say dozens infiltrated around me the night that I sat down there, Mr. Speaker, and perhaps 20 there in broad daylight as we flew by with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Chief of the Border Patrol, and two Blackhawk helicopters that make a lot of noise, and you can hear them coming quite a long ways off, still didn't deter the daylight illegal crossings taking place. 
   And as I look at the numbers of those who are coming across that southern border, and I would direct anyone's attention to the testimony before the Immigration Subcommittee of the Judiciary Committee in the 109th Congress, Mr. Speaker, and also in the 108th Congress, where we had a number of witnesses that testified for the Border Patrol or the Border Patrol Union when asked what level of interdiction do you have of those that are crossing the border illegally, what percentage are you able to arrest? And their answer has consistently been 25 to 30 percent is all that would be interdicted. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, their testimony also shows that last year, the Border Patrol on the southern border, the 2000 miles of our Mexican border, intercepted, 1,188,000 illegal immigrants who were seeking to cross our southern border. Intercepted, 1,188,000, and now we are to that point where we fingerprint them all, at least that is what the testimony says, and that their fingerprints go into the record so we can track them if their's are duplicate or triplicate or have been stopped a number of times at the border. And at some point we need to be running out of patience and bringing charges against them, lock them up, make them serve their time and then deport them. Some of that is happening, but our patience level is very high. 
   But of the 1,188,000, I don't have the precise numbers committed to memory, but as close as I can recall, it was about 742,000 that were first time crossers, and the balance of that, the difference between 1,188,000 and 742,000, that 400-some thousand number represents those who crossed the border illegally that year more than once, two times, three times, four times, seven, eight times on up to 17 times, would be one of the numbers that I have heard as they looked at those records, Mr. Speaker. This is something that we are spending $8 billion to protect our southern border. That is $4 million a mile. 
   And we are getting 25 percent to 33 percent efficiency out of that. And we are picking people up over and over again. And if they voluntarily deport, we simply take their fingerprints, identify them, take a digital photograph of them and take them back to the border and let them go back through the turnstile, say, at Nogales or Naco or San Luis or wherever there might be a port of entry. This enforcement at the border has been weak and it hasn't been relentless. The year before it was a 1,159,000. And this stopping one-third, one fourth to a third calculates out to be something like four million illegal border crossers a year. Four million. If you take the 1,188,000 and you say it is a fourth, multiply it times four and then just kind of round it back to four million, that four million illegal crossers turns out to be 11,000 a night, Mr. Speaker. 
   And we are in a discussion across this country today about 7,000 Iraqis that the administration wants to provide refuge in the United States for by doing background checks and clearing them and bringing them here so that they will not be under the gun, so to speak, in Iraq and they can be pulled away if they happen to be targeted by the insurgents and the enemy for helping the United States. 
   That concerns me that we would be bringing people out of Iraq when they need people there to help rebuild their country. And it concerns me that we would have a number that large, and I would seek to reduce that number, if we could, shrink it down as much as possible, do background checks as intensively as we can because I think it is a national security issue and how many al Qaeda could be infiltrated into that 7,000 Iraqis that would want to come in here that would be authorized by the administration, and how many more might there be if we open for 7,000. 
   But by the same token, the relative risk of having 7,000 Iraqis that we would have identified by name, by fingerprint and been able to at least verify some of their activities over the last 5 years or longer in Iraq, the relative danger to the United States pales in comparison to 11,000 illegal immigrants a night trickling, pouring, infiltrating across our southern border. 11,000. I mean, we are approaching twice, some nights it is twice as many as the 7,000 Iraqis. The 7,000 Iraqis are still a significantly sized number. But the southern border takes on a number approaching twice that many every single night, without any background check, without any check whatsoever, people coming into this country; some to come to work, some to pick lettuce, some to get jobs working in food processing and restaurants and hotels and motels and you name it across the country. It is still a violation of American law. It is still a crime, Mr. Speaker. 
   But the worst parts of this aren't rooted in individuals that are seeking a better life, although we must enforce our laws if we are going to be a Nation that has the rule of law. But what is really chilling is the elements that come with that mass of humanity, those elements that come in with that $65 billion worth of illegal drugs that comes across our Mexican border every year. 
   Mr. Speaker, I repeat, $65 billion, with a B, dollars worth of illegal drugs being brought into the United States across our southern border. And the drugs are, the four major drugs, methamphetamine, heroin, cocaine and marijuana. And the sources of them work out to be about like this, the methamphetamines, many of them manufactured in Mexico, from Chinese pseudoephedrine products. Now we have taken the Sudafed off the shelves here in the United States, most places in an effective way so that we have taken the local meth cooker pretty much out of business. And the meth that was coming into my part of the country in Iowa and your part, Mr. Speaker, was about 90 percent Mexican meth until we passed the law that took those pseudoephedrines off the shelf in our pharmacies and in our grocery stores, limited those quantities. 
   People can still have access in limited quantities. When we did that the DEA tells me now that the methamphetamines that are being sold in our part of the country, in Iowa, Nebraska and that Midwest area, it was 90 percent Mexican. Now it is 97 percent, and the balance of that trickles in from other places, maybe a California lab, maybe a few local labs, but not much. 97 percent now out of Mexico. We expected that. And we freed up a lot of officers time that are not having to clean up the dangerous meth labs, and put those officers in a better position to interdict the drug dealers. But the meth coming from Mexico, made from Chinese pseudo ephedrine that gets brought into Mexico in numbers way beyond the level of colds that they have down there for the number of people that they have, and that ought to set off some alarm bells. But that is being smuggled in. The meth is being smuggled across the border into the United States in massive supplies, numbers at least over 90 percent of the meth that is used in the United States now coming through, the raw product, the base product out of China to Mexico, manufactured in Mexico, shipped into the United States. That is the facts of methamphetamines. Much of the marijuana comes from any place south, a lot of it raised right in Mexico, and tons and tons of it hauled across the border. I happen to have been down there, it was in the middle part of last May when we interdicted a pickup truck that had about, let's see, it had about 200 pounds of marijuana packaged up in bales and sealed up in tape that was underneath a false floor in a pickup truck, Mr. Speaker.     
   That was just simply a decoy load that was designed to pull the enforcement off so the larger load could go through. I don't know if it actually made it through, but that is the kind of thing that is going on. Tons and tons of marijuana coming into the United States across the border, Mr. Speaker, a lot of it raised right in Mexico. And then we have the heroin that is smuggled in, and that heroin, a lot of it, also comes out of China. 
   And those of us that have visited over in Afghanistan in the poppy fields understand how that works. We have the Taliban that are engaged in the poppy and in the opium trade. They will front the crops in Pakistan, walk out into those farming areas along on the east side of Afghanistan that match up against the border with Pakistan, and pay for half of that crop upfront to the grower, to the farmer. It is a nice little crop agreement, and they pay for half the crop upfront. They come back when the harvest is done. They load up the poppy seeds/opium and pay for the other half of the crop. The farmer comes off fine because he doesn't have to haul any crop. He doesn't have to take anything to town. He gets paid upfront for his input costs and he gets paid for his harvest. 
   And off goes the opium then, hauled away by the Taliban, who sell it out of Pakistan into China and out of China over into Mexico and up into the United States. And, again, we are funding our enemies, Mr. Speaker. And the smuggling routes that go from Afghanistan through Pakistan through China and across into Mexico, up into the United States, are routes that are understood pretty well by our DEA. 
   And let me see. I left off one other drug, Mr. Speaker, and that is cocaine. And if one would notice, a lot of that cocaine was getting into the United States perhaps through our airports before 9/11. We shut that down and provided a significant amount of security at our airports after that. Drug dog sniffers, a lot more sophisticated screening process. When that happened, the Colombians had difficulty delivering their cocaine into the United States, and finally they cut a deal with the Mexicans so that they could use the distribution of the Mexican drug cartel families to flow their cocaine up into the United States. 
   So across our southern Border comes 90 percent of the illegal drugs that are used in the United States of America because those conduits that come out of Colombia, out of China, two different varieties out of China, and then the marijuana that is mostly raised in Mexico, all of that coming across the border, coming through illegal border crossings, coming across places where the border is not marked at all, and the drug cartel families that control those crossings fight for those. And the numbers that we have seen that have been killed in the drug wars in Mexico for 2006 exceed the number 2,000 deaths, the people that were murdered in the struggle for who is going to control the turf, who is going to control the profit. And the cities on the south side, Nuevo Laredo for one of those, that area has become a lawless land that is controlled by the drug cartels. 
   I will say that the new President of Mexico has stepped in to crack down on some of that. The jury is still out on how successful he might be. But these are important components here for us in the United States of America. 
   So here we are with this dynamic growing economy, the strongest economy we have seen in my lifetime. The continual growth quarter by quarter by quarter that is stimulated, of course, by having a competitive low tax environment. And with an economy that has this kind of dynamism, we are able to pay for two things that come from foreign countries that have hurt us greatly: one is the illegal drugs, the $65 billion worth coming across the Mexican border; and another one is paying for Middle Eastern oil and enriching the people over in that part of the world, many of whom are our sworn enemies, not our sworn friends. So we are funding our enemies by purchasing illegal drugs in America, and we are funding many of our enemies just simply because we are involved in purchasing oil to come into the United States. And we are more and more dependent on Middle Eastern oil, not less and less dependent. 
   But I am here to talk about the immigration issue, the illegal border crossing, Mr. Speaker, and the component of illegal drugs that are part of that. And I mentioned the 2,000 murder victims on the Mexican side of the border that were killed in the drug wars. And we will hear the testimony continually about how many people die in the Arizona desert trying to come into the United States. And as the weather warms up and we get into May, June, July, and August, the hotter and hotter it gets, the more victims there are in the desert. And it is sad and it is a tragedy, and we are doing some things to stop that. But I will argue that if we build some more fence, we build some more barrier, we can save some more lives down on that border. Those lives are a concern, Mr. Speaker, and we talk about them regularly and continually here in this Congress. 
   The lives that we don't talk about are the lives of the Americans who die at the hands of the criminal elements that come into the United States. And it has been politically incorrect to discuss such a thing as if we should just sit back and watch our citizens killed on a daily basis. Preventable crimes and we shouldn't utter a peep because somehow or another it might be interpreted as something that is based upon anything other than a love for the rule of law and the enforcement of law and the respect for the value of human life. 
   But I stand firmly in respect for the unique intrinsic value of human life, from conception, fertilization, to natural death. That is my record for more  than 10 years in public life, Mr. Speaker, and it is my stand today. It has not changed. It will not change. And I stand for the defense of the American people so that they can be safe in their homes, on the streets in their communities, in their schools, in their workplaces, in their churches, wherever they gather. The American people need to be safe. 
   So I began to ask the question, Mr. Speaker: How many Americans die at the hands of those who do make it across the border and across the desert? I didn't have a concept of what that number would be, Mr. Speaker, until such time as I asked the question in the immigration hearing. I asked it a number of times of different ranks of witnesses that were there. The question again was: How many Americans die at the hands of those who do make it across the desert? 
   And one of the witnesses, his answer was: ``I don't know the answer to that question, but I can tell you it would be in multiples of the victims of September 11.'' Now, that, Mr. Speaker, is a stopper when you think about such a concept. And when he uttered that concept, it started me thinking, and shortly thereafter I commissioned a GAO study, and the study was specifically designed to ask that question, how many Americans die at the hands of those who do make it illegally across the border? The study came back. It took about a year to get the study done. It wasn't quite apples to apples. That is the nature of things in government sometimes. 
   But it did put some facts in place that could be indexed to other existing studies and other existing data that the government has produced. So I shut myself up in the Library of Congress sometimes for several days to be able to concentrate hard enough to pull that data out of that report and use other reports and match them in so I would be able to compare apples to apples. And it comes down to something like this, Mr. Speaker: twenty-eight percent of the inmates in the prisons in the United States, Federal and State, are criminal aliens. Twenty-eight percent. Now, if you presume that those 28 percent are committing crimes in the same proportion of the rest of the inmates, since there are no records out there, you have to presume that 28 percent of the rape; 28 percent of the robberies; 28 percent of the grand theft auto; 28 percent of the first, second, and third degree murder, manslaughter, all of that is committed by criminal aliens. And there is no rationale that it could be anything else unless it would be more rather than less. 
   So I take that 28 percent, and I multiply it, and we have about 16,400 murders in the United States annually. And you take that times .28 and you come up with a number of something like 4,513, perhaps, would be the number of American murder victims representing that 28 percent, which is the population of our prisons that are criminal aliens. Now, that is a huge number and already that is more than the victims of September 11 on one day. But that would be an annual number. 
   And then if you look at some of the other fatalities out there, the highest group of fatalities are those victims of negligent homicide.     
   Most times, negligent homicide, Mr. Speaker, is the case of the victims of drunk drivers; not the drunks themselves, but the victims of the drunk drivers. 
   So as people come into the United States illegally, climb behind a steering wheel, drink and drive, often uninsured, not knowing our traffic laws, not having a sense of responsibility, but running into victims on the streets of America, that number is a number a little higher than the 4,500 or so that are victims of first and second degree murder and manslaughter. But the negligent homicide, mostly victims of drunk drivers, runs a little higher. 
   But it boils down to, when you do the math, shake it down to a day, about 12 Americans every day murdered at the hands of criminal aliens. Statistically, that is a solid number that has been tested across this country. I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, it is a number that the liberals hate to hear, but they have produced no competing data that can challenge this GAO study data that has been multiplied into other government data like crime rates to come up with these numbers: About 12 Americans a day, first and second degree murder victims or manslaughter victims, dead, buried; about 13 Americans a day die at the hands because of negligent homicide, most of them victims of drunk driving. 
   All of these crimes, Mr. Speaker, all of them are preventible if we enforce our immigration laws. If we would deport those people when they run afoul of the law, if we are able to control our borders, get operational control of our borders, force all traffic, all human traffic, all contraband, all cargo, everything that is coming across the border through the ports-of-entry, and then beef up the ports-of-entry, focus our surveillance there, probably have to widen them and put more personnel down so we are not backing traffic up, but if we could force all the traffic through the ports-of-entry and do a good job there, we would theoretically interdict all illegal human traffic, all illegal drug traffic. 
   We would also occasionally interdict a terrorist who is seeking to sneak into the United States. I happen to know of seven individuals who were persons of interest from nations of interest, which is a government euphemism, Mr. Speaker, for someone who is a likely terrorist who hails from a terrorist spawning or terrorist sponsoring country. I know of seven. 
   When they are identified, picked up by the Border Patrol or whatever the arresting officer happens to be, there is a little window there to find out about it. Then they are handed over to the FBI, which then makes that case classified. At that point those officers can't talk to me or anyone about it after that. 
   So if they told me about something that happened today and the FBI picks them up 5 minutes from now and takes them into custody and says this is now a classified case, 10 minutes from now they can no longer even repeat the things they said to me 10 minutes ago, because it is now formally a classified case. So I have a little 24 hour window to hear about this. 
   My network is not that good, but I know of seven. I don't know how many that is altogether. It might be 70. It is probably well more than 70 persons of interest from nations of interest, people who we think are at least likely terrorist suspects coming across our southern border, sneaking into the United States, wishing us ill will, ready to act on that ill will. That threat is there too. 
   The crime element, the drug element, the terrorist element, all of that is added to the depression of the value of our labor force here in the United States, in fact the lower skilled being pushed down by reducing their wages by 12 percent because of the millions who have been injected into that market. We have gotten dependent upon it over the years. 
   Mr. Speaker, this part about the violence perpetrated against Americans is something that I have given the broad statistics of 12 victims a day of murder, 13 of negligent homicide, 25 altogether. Almost every single day the casualties of Americans at the hands of criminal aliens, most of that preventible if we enforce our laws, those casualties are almost every day greater than the numbers of American casualties in Iraq. They absolutely total up to be something that are in multiples of the victims of September 11. 
   These are Americans that need to have their lives protected. We need to have our laws enforced, we need to get operational control of the border, we need to have cooperation at the local law enforcement level, Mr. Speaker. 
   To personalize this a little bit, statistics are one thing. We can talk about statistics. Some people understand the magnitude of that. Some people understand personal pain and evil people. So, I have picked a selection of evil people here, Mr. Speaker. 
   My number one evil person is this individual here. His name is Angel Maturino Resendiz. He is known as, and we will recognize his name, the Railroad Killer. This individual for nearly 2 years, a 39-year-old illegal alien from Mexico, literally followed America's railroad tracks to rape and kill unsuspecting victims. 
   Resendiz struck near the rail lines that he illegally rode and then he stowed away on the next freight train that came his way. He is responsible  for as many as 15 serial murders, and the victims' ages range from 16 to 81. He attacked his victims with rocks, sledgehammers, shotguns and tire irons, sometimes in their homes, and sometimes he stole money for alcohol or drugs. Most of these murders took place in central Texas, but it is suspected he killed as far north as Kentucky and Illinois. 
   He has been apprehended by the Border Patrol in Texas and New Mexico eight times within 18 months, and he had been, and I emphasize this, voluntarily returned to Mexico each of those eight times in those 18 months. 
   Eight times he volunteered to return to Mexico when he was stopped by the Border Patrol, and then he would come back into the United States, and sometimes it happened quite quickly, come back to kill again. 
   On June 1, 1999, there were State and Federal warrants outstanding for Resendiz and there were intensive efforts underway to arrest him. Border Patrol agents in Santa Teresa, New Mexico, apprehended Resendiz. He was illegally crossing the border again, and he voluntarily was returned to Mexico, even though there were outstanding warrants on him. The Border Patrol was unaware that there were warrants out, but he was on the FBI's top 10 list. Still, picked up as an illegal border crosser and voluntarily returned, self-deportation, so-to-speak, back to Mexico. 
   How does this happen, that an individual that is in the FBI's top 10 most wanted list, we have him in our hands eight times, and this time, on June 1, 1999, while there were outstanding Federal warrants, we couldn't index his fingerprints to that data there with the system we had in 1999 and put this man behind bars before he killed again? But we couldn't under those circumstances. 
   I am advised that today, everyone that is picked up is printed and their fingerprints are run through the database, Mr. Speaker, and presumably we would catch the next Resendiz perpetrator. It didn't happen in 1999. 
   So they released him, and Resendiz, after he had gone back to Mexico, immediately found his way back into the United States, where within 48 hours he killed four more innocent people. 
   He was finally traced and captured by a determined Texas ranger in July of 1999, and then he was ultimately executed at Huntsville, Texas, June 27, 2006. 
   This man here, Angel Maturino Resendiz, killed at least 15 people. Now he has been executed as of June 27, 2006. But it is something that could have been prevented, Mr. Speaker, if we had had an intense effort to enforce our border. When they come through the second time, if we are not willing to use the fullest extent of the law at that point and provide a deterrent, these kind of things happen. 
   What was he afraid of? He surely wasn't afraid to be picked up again on the border. He knew he would be returned back to Mexico again. Finally a determined Texas ranger hunted him down. Thank God for that kind of effort and that kind of man. 
   Now, that is Resendiz, Mr. Speaker. That is the face of evil. It is not the only face of evil, but that is a face of evil.     
   He is one of those who contributes to those thousands of Americans who have been victimized in the fashion I have described. 
   This is another one, Mr. Speaker, Raul Gomez-Garcia. Many of us know this story, and this will take us into the discussion of the situation that exists in Denver and in many of the cities across America that have established a sanctuary policy. 
   This case has been brought to a conclusion with a conviction and a sentencing, and I can talk straight up about it. Raul Gomez-Garcia, a cop killer. He was sentenced to 80 years in prison for second degree murder, not first degree murder. But as the police officers that were guarding a family celebration which I understand was Raul Gomez-Garcia's family celebration, I believe it was a christening or a baptism of a daughter of his, Raul Gomez-Garcia left the party and went to come back in and they would not let him back in because he didn't have identification or whatever the reason was. At any rate, Gomez-Garcia lost his temper and on May 8, 2005, ambushed two officers, Officer Donnie Young who was shot in the back of the neck, I believe, and killed, and Officer Jack Bishop, whose bulletproof vest saved him when he was shot in the back by Mr. Gomez-Garcia, and who immediately escaped to Mexico. 
   The way I recall this case, we knew he was heading that way. As he got into Mexico, he believed he had sanctuary there. The policy was Mexico wouldn't extradite murderers to the United States if they were faced with a death penalty, which would be the case here for this kind of a crime. 
   And then over time because the Mexican courts had ruled that the death penalty was cruel and unusual punishment and therefore they were not going to send their citizens to the United States to face a death penalty, no matter what kind of a crime they committed, and the disrespect for the laws here in the United States that come from the courts in Mexico I think cannot be overlooked, either, Mr. Speaker, but that was the position that the Mexican courts took, that the death penalty was cruel and unusual, and so they found some people that they wouldn't encourage to come to the United States. That was those people who were provided sanctuary within Mexico who hid behind the decisions made by the Mexican courts and Mexican laws. 
   Then over time the same court ruled that life in prison was also cruel and unusual punishment. So what would be appropriate punishment for an individual like this, Raul Gomez-Garcia, who shot two cops, killed one, the other one saved by his bulletproof vest, ripped Donnie Young out of his family's life, left a daughter without a father, and put all of that pain and agony on the community and on the family and the neighborhood and put a wound into this Nation, and absconded to Mexico and the Mexican courts say even life in prison is too cruel and unusual for someone who commit such a cruel and unusual act? 
   So the prosecuting attorney had to cut a deal. He had to lower the charge to second degree murder where the maximum sentence was 80 years in prison which Raul Gomez-Garcia received at his sentencing that took place last October 26 in Denver. 
   But the big problem with this is Raul Gomez-Garcia had been stopped a number of times by the Denver Police Department. The sanctuary laws that they have in Denver say that they can't inquire into the lawful presence or the immigration status of anyone that they stop. Therefore, Raul Gomez-Garcia was released each time he was stopped for his traffic violations, car accidents, whatever the incidents of confrontation might have been. Gomez-Garcia was allowed to go back on the streets, back behind the steering wheel, back behind a gun, back behind the backs of two police officers and shoot them in the back, killing Officer Donnie Young. 
   All of this could have been prevented if we sealed our borders, stopped the bleeding at the borders; and failing that, when Gomez-Garcia arrived in Denver with his first encounter with the Denver Police Department, he should have been picked up and deported back to Mexico on the spot. That is what the law says. But Denver says they are a sanctuary city, and that means they want to be a welcoming place for people who come here illegally. 
   The price that is paid is the life of Donnie Young. I think it is a tragedy and it is amazing to me that the citizens of Denver will put up with a policy that will protect murderers within their midst and not enforce our Federal law. And the very idea that because you are local law enforcement and you have a few city ordinances and speed limits and issues like that to enforce, the very idea that because you are a city police officer you don't cooperate or enforce Federal law is anathema to a Nation that is founded upon the rule of law. 
   I grew up in a law enforcement family, and there was no concept in those years that any law enforcement officer was absolved from enforcing any of our laws. 
   Can you imagine a Nation or a world where only Federal agents could enforce Federal laws, and only State agents could enforce State laws, and Highway Patrol officers could only enforce the State speeding laws, not the  local speed limits, and your city police officers could only enforce the city ordinances and the local traffic laws? And county officers, what are they going to do? They don't have enough ordinances to enforce anything. All they could do under this kind of rationale would be serve papers and keep the jail and maybe leave us otherwise alone. It is not conducive to a free state to have sanctuary policy or to live under the delusion that you don't have the responsibility to enforce immigration laws because you happen to be wearing a blue uniform of a Denver Police Department. 
   The result is Denver police officers, shot, killed by Gomez-Garcia, who had no business being in the United States and we had many opportunities to send him back to his own country and keep him there or incarcerate him here in the United States until he had paid the price for the others crimes he had committed. 
   Here is what is shocking to me, Mr. Speaker. Denver Police Chief Gerry Whitman said the case, Gomez-Garcia, ``sends the message that Denver and its criminal justice system stand behind the police.'' How does that work? How can you stand behind the police when you have Gomez-Garcia standing behind the police and putting bullets into them, and you have picked up and turned the very man loose that you had the opportunity to stop before he took one of your fellow officers? 
   That is what happens with a sanctuary policy. Donnie Young was one of thousands. The face here is another face of evil, Mr. Speaker. And the face of the victims are not here on this floor tonight, but it is a tragedy just the same. 
   And I have another tragedy. 
   This is Jose Luis Rubi-Nava. 
   Now, this individual has been arrested and he has I believe been indicted on other charges, so we are going to say ``allegedly.'' I am going to put allegedly ahead of the things I say about this individual, understanding I don't believe he has been convicted at this point. He is innocent until proven guilty, but these are the news reports that I am referencing. 
   He was arrested in April 2006 for other crimes. He is an illegal immigrant. He could have been deported back to his home country. He could have been incarcerated for the other violations he had, but he was released back into the community, again because of a sanctuary policy, and again this is Denver, the suburbs of Denver. 
   So we have Jose Luis Rubi-Nava of Glendale, Colorado, who is charged with one of the most horrendous crimes that I have heard about in my years in dealing with these things, and that is the dragging death of a female whom we believe was perhaps his common-law wife, a live-in, or a romantic friend whom he allegedly tied a rope around her neck and drug her behind the car for over a mile and left her body about 20 feet outside a driveway in a suburban area, in a suburb of Denver. 
   In reading the report, the gory streaks on the street were more than a mile long and they had to wash the streets to clean things up after the perpetration of this horrible crime allegedly committed by Rubi-Nava.     
   This crime is just among the most horrible things that I have ever heard, and yet the Denver police persist. They buried one of their own, Donnie Young. The mayor's sanctuary policy is what they have to live by I recognize. I am not hearing from the police department that we should stop all of these sanctuary policies. Instead, I am hearing the police chiefs say we take care of our own; we enforce the law. 
   But I hear things like statements made in this case, Denver police have no reason to believe someone is in the country illegally; therefore, they do not contact Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. If they stop somebody, and any common-sense person, anyone with half a brain, could figure out that they had an illegal immigrant on their hands because of the identification, because of maybe a Mexican driver's license, maybe because of a matricula consular card, which is almost proof positive of unlawful presence in the United States. There is no reason to have a matricula consular card unless you are here illegally, Mr. Speaker. 
   No, the Denver police would argue we have no reason to believe he is here illegally, and therefore, we cannot take action; therefore, we will release an individual back on the streets again and hope he does not drag somebody to death or shoot somebody in the back or run over them as a drunken driver. 
   This kind of tragedy, this kind of evil, Mr. Speaker, has got to be stopped. I have laid out just three cases, and I have discussed perhaps about 17 murder victims in these three cases. That average, I do not know if it is high or low across the perpetrators of capital crime. 
   Mr. Speaker, I can tell you that if you are the family members of any of those victims, you are not thinking in terms of numbers or whether it is a high or a low number of people that were killed. You are thinking in terms of your loved one that you have lost, that devastating, wrenching that a family goes through and a that grief that goes on for a lifetime, that hole that is there for a lifetime, the hole that I talked about in the family of Donnie Young, that hole multiplied by thousands in this country because we do not have the will to enforce our immigration laws, because we do not have the will because we have people that see the massive numbers of low-income, cheap wages as a political power base. On the other side of that, we have people that are making a lot of money off of cheep labor, and they believe they have a right. 
   So, therefore, Mr. Speaker, I will continue this discussion in future evenings, and I appreciate the privilege to address you on the floor of the United States House of Representatives. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (GENERAL LEAVE -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Michigan for yielding, and I appreciate the privilege to address this House. 
   This is a cynical attempt here to bring up a veto override attempt on an issue that's been decided, an issue that's been decided and a bill that's been signed by the President, is now enacted into law, to get us past the silly season of Presidential politics and on beyond November of 2008 so we can then have a legitimate discussion about what, if any, better options might be available to the American people. This is a big deal. This is already a victory for the taxpayers, and it's a victory for the kids that we're trying to take care of. 
   I say it this way. I said I would come back and report to the American people on how much money was saved because some of us held the line, and that dollar figure is $35.6 billion. That's billion with a B. How much money is that? The ranking member of Energy and Commerce might want to know. We could build 178 ethanol plants at 100 million gallons each and quadruple our ethanol production with that kind of capital investment money. You could put a new car in every driveway in my State for that kind of money, but no kid was even threatened to lose their health insurance premium, and we took care of the kids. We're taking care of the taxpayers. 
   $35.6 billion is what's on the line here. And who's paying the bill? Not us, not those of us in my generation, not those of us who are serving here in the United States Congress. Maybe our kids, more certainly our grandchildren will have to pay this price if we don't step up and draw a bright line. $35.6 billion, $6.5 billion going to illegals getting access to Medicaid because of the language that's in this legislation that erodes the standards that are required. 
   This is a responsible thing to uphold the President's veto and turn down this veto override attempt. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (PROVIDING FOR COMPENSATION TO STATES INCARCERATING UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS -- (House of Representatives - May 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, the Federal Government under the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, which we refer to as SCAAP, reimburses part of the expenses that States and localities incur in incarcerating illegal immigrants who have been convicted of a felony or of two or more misdemeanors. And, in fact, I would bring the Chamber's attention, Mr. Speaker, to a report that was issued by the GAO in April of 2005 that identifies that the Federal Government is reimbursing 25 percent of the cost of the incarceration of criminal aliens within the institutions in the United States. But H.R. 1512 expands the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program to compensate States for incarcerating illegal immigrants who are charged with, and not only convicted, which is under the current program, charged with a felony or two or more misdemeanors. 
   I stand here, Mr. Speaker, and applaud the gentlelady from California for bringing this legislation because I think this is a constructive change to our policy, and the language very simply adds the words ``charged with or'' to the existing language of compensation for those ``convicted of.'' And it recognizes that there are significant costs involved in processing criminal aliens in the investigation stage, the arrest stage and the indictment stage. And as those costs mount and are incurred, we need to be sure that we take this position, that it is the Federal  Government's job to guard and protect our borders. That is not the job of a political subdivision. It is essentially the job of the Federal Government. 
   When we fail to do our job, when we don't have sufficient constraints in place at our borders or at our airports or our ports of entry, then the result of it is that this burden of law enforcement falls upon the political subdivisions, on the States, on the cities and on the counties to enforce the law. And when they do, they incur these costs. This bill, H.R. 1512, seeks to lift off some of that burden. And it certainly wouldn't be all of it. 
   Lamar Smith, the ranking member of the full Judiciary Committee, and I both believe the available statistics on criminal illegal immigrants in the United States leave much to be desired. There is too little data on illegal immigrants imprisoned in the United States. We don't really know how many there are or what crimes they are charged with or convicted of or how much time they spend in our prison systems. 
   And I particularly can speak to that, since I asked for the GAO study that was completed in April of 2005. I thought in that study I would get the answers to the percentages of our inmate populations that are criminal aliens, what crimes they might be convicted of, and quite a list of things that would help us establish our policy, both law enforcement policy and our immigration policy. 
   However, that report came back not quite apples to apples. And there are conclusions that can be drawn. There are also gaps to their knowledge base. And because of the inspiration that is brought forward, because of this bill of Ms. S&#225;nchez, H.R. 1512, we engaged the Judiciary Committee in dialogue about how we can better gather that information. I am really pleased that Ms. Lofgren, the Chair of the Immigration Subcommittee, of which I am the ranking member, and Mr. Smith, the ranking member of the full Judiciary Committee, have agreed to send a joint request to the Government Accountability Office to develop additional statistics on criminal alien immigrants. I look forward to working with Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Smith and others on this particular subject matter. This is something we vitally need to provide statistics that will help us establish a better immigration policy. 
   As we move forward with this piece of legislation that I believe is a constructive move in the right direction that helps to compensate, and it won't be all, but it will at least in part help to compensate the political subdivisions for their costs incurred to enforce laws against criminal aliens, it adds to it those charged with a crime, not just those convicted of a crime or two serious misdemeanors. 
   But into this negotiation also will be the formal request for the GAO study to look further at the effect of crime on the United States of America by criminal aliens. And the question has got to be constantly before us, since we are charged with the responsibility of protecting the American people. And it is very much a constitutional responsibility. We are also constitutionally charged with the responsibility of establishing immigration policy. The executive branch is charged with the responsibility of enforcing that policy, however aggressively or lack of aggression they might have. The result is that some get in through the borders, through our ports of entry. Some commit crimes, and some of those crimes that are committed are of a very heinous nature. And the cost of those crimes against this society can be quantified if we can identify the numbers of crimes that are being committed by criminal aliens and in what categories they are in, where they are being incarcerated, what lengths of terms they are serving, and especially, Mr. Speaker, when they are released, when they are released from a municipal jail, a county jail or a State penitentiary, let alone from a Federal institution, when they are released, we need to know if they are released into the hands of ICE, if they have been processed for deportation, if that happens to be the law, or if they are released back into the streets. And if they are, we need to ask the question, are they committing further crimes?     
   So what is the level of effectiveness in our law enforcement system? What percentage of our overall crimes are being committed by criminal aliens? What are those crimes? What's the price against society, and how does this break down into all these categories that I have mentioned in a fashion that will allow us, as a Congress, to prudently step back, take the empirical data that we are expecting to receive from the Government Accountability Office and after the submission of this request, and process that into policy that reflects the best interests of the people in the United States of America. 
   I think this bill is a healthy step in the right direction. I think it's a prudent thing to do, and I think it says the right thing to the people in America. I applaud the gentlelady for bringing H.R. 1512, and I support the expansion of SCAAP funding to those who have also been charged with a crime. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
   Ms. LINDA T. S&#193;NCHEZ of California. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the right to close. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (PROVIDING FOR COMPENSATION TO STATES INCARCERATING UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS -- (House of Representatives - May 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself so much time as I may consume. 
   Just in summation, this is a component of taking this legislation in the right direction, and it's important that we compensate political subdivisions. When the Federal Government is not doing the job they need to be doing, this is the natural result of it. 
   I expect that this has come from a request of those political subdivisions. Although they aren't making this request necessarily in my district, there are many jails in my district that will be beneficiaries of this piece of legislation. 
   I urge its adoption, and I yield back the balance of my time. 
   Ms. LINDA T. S&#193;NCHEZ of California. Mr. Speaker, you know, immigration is probably the signature Federal policy issue. Try as they might, States simply can't fix failures in Federal immigration policy on their own. 
   But when we fall down on the job, States, cities and counties bear the burden for an immigration system that simply doesn't work. While Congress is working on a comprehensive solution to our broken immigration system, we must not forget about the local governments who are paying an extremely high cost as a result of our inaction. 
   In 1994, Congress passed the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, SCAAP, to reimburse States and localities for the arrest and incarceration and transportation costs associated with criminal aliens, averting a tidal wave of expenses that could have overwhelmed the State and local budgets. 
   However, in 2003, the Department of Justice reinterpreted the SCAAP statute and caused a drastic drop in every State's reimbursement. Now States no longer receive reimbursements unless, first, the criminal alien is convicted of a criminal felony and two misdemeanors; and, second, the arrest and conviction occur in the same year. 
   To add insult to injury, President Bush has zeroed out SCAAP in his budget proposals for the last 6 years. This means that State and local governments are left to pick up the tab. Every dollar reduction in SCAAP reimbursements means one less dollar that law enforcement agencies have to hire new officers, provide essential training, make critical equipment purchases and detain other, perhaps more violent, inmates. 
   Following the SCAAP funding cuts in 2003, the LA County Sheriff's Department implemented a new early-release policy for inmates convicted of misdemeanors. This means the neighborhoods I represent in Southern California are at risk. 
   Sadly, these communities are not alone. Across the country, the SCAAP reimbursement cuts have had a domino effect, where funding for anti-gang activities, homicide investigations, anti-terrorism activities and even basic maintenance is cut to pay for expenses associated with incarcerating criminal aliens and suspected criminal aliens. 
   As Arizona county supervisors recently stated, ``This is a huge problem because we can't keep up with fixing roads, the other costs of law enforcement, and keeping up with health agencies.'' 
   While this bill on its own won't solve the fiscal crisis many States now face, it will help in the long term by covering a greater share of costs that  properly belonged to the Federal Government. 
   H.R. 1512 amends the SCAAP statute so that States and localities can be reimbursed for the cost of incarcerating aliens who are either charged with or convicted of a felony or two misdemeanors, just like it was before the DOJ's reinterpretation in 2003. This Federal investment will allow State and local law enforcement agencies to devote more resources to important public safety programs. 
   Law enforcement agencies and coalitions from all over the country, including the U.S.-Mexico Border Counties Coalition, the National Association of Counties, the California State Association of Counties, the Sheriffs' Association of Texas and the Virginia Sheriffs' Association support this bipartisan legislation. 
   Lastly, I want to offer thanks and gratitude to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for passing this bill unanimously through the Judiciary Committee and for bringing it to the floor today without any amendments. We may not agree on many aspects of immigration policy, but this bill accomplishes a larger goal, making our community safer. For that reason, I appreciate your support. 
   I urge my colleagues to support their local law enforcement agencies by voting for this bill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS EXEMPTION -- (House of Representatives - May 06, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank Mr. Smith, the ranking member of the Judiciary Committee, for yielding, and I appreciate the privilege to address this issue before this Congress. 
   First, I want to point out that I believe there has been a constructive compromise that has been reached across this aisle that has not necessarily closed loopholes but made some clarifications that help protect this country from kind of a blanket waiver, so to speak, with any of those formerly potentially violent members of the ANC. 
   And for me, I come to this debate with more concern than many because I still maintain vivid memories of what went on in the streets of South Africa during those anti-apartheid riots and demonstrations and strategic actions that took place, black against white, white against black. I also have vivid memories, Mr. Speaker, of actions taken in this country and positions taken politically and the divesting of investments within South Africa by many American companies as an incentive to end apartheid, which was, I believe, a sin against humanity to have a policy that identified some people as  being more equal than others, and I believe it's a sin against humanity to maintain those policies, whether they are in the United States or South Africa or anywhere else. 
   I offered an amendment to the Judiciary Committee before this bill, and the purpose of it was to send a message because I have traveled to South Africa and I have met with people there who expressed to me some concerns, and because of that, I've also dug a little deeper into the readings in the current events. It will not be a surprise to the members of the committee that I'm concerned about the land transfer that is part of the federal policy of South Africa, to transfer a significant portion of land from, right now, under the deeds held by white South Africans into the deeds of black South Africans. I made it clear in the committee that I do not compare this to the things we see going on in Zimbabwe. That is far different and that is without benefit of the rule of law. But there still remains a concern. 
   I also want to point out, and I promised Ambassador Welile Nhlapo, who is the Ambassador to the United States from South Africa, that I would make this statement. And he came to my office yesterday. We sat down in my office for a good, strong hour and discussed these issues. And he assured me that there are constitutional protections that exist and statutory protections that exist to protect all property owners in South Africa and that there will not be a transfer of real estate property into the hands of black South Africans at the expense of white South Africans without due process of law and constitutional protections. I voiced my concern about that. He reassured me that that would be the case. 
   And I pointed out to him that it's difficult for us in this country to reach an objective position on these issues that are racially charged because it's so much wrapped up in who we are. And I would point out, Mr. Speaker, for the observation of the body, to listen to an analysis of the political campaigns that are going on now and, in fact, today to listen to an analysis of the predictions of those going to the polls in the Democrat primary in places like Indiana and North Carolina, which are taking place right now, you cannot hear a political pundit/talking-head analysis without race and gender coming into that debate. 
   So I challenged Ambassador Nhlapo that that's a very difficult standard, that we can't meet it here in this country. As old as our traditions are for freedom, as much sweat and toil and blood has been spilled to make people free and keep them free, we still can't extricate ourselves from being wrapped up in that debate and have our public policy identified by whom we might side with rather than how we might analyze the Constitution or the law. It's difficult here in the United States with our traditions; it's far more difficult in South Africa. We had that discussion. It was a constructive discussion. 
   And I rise today, Mr. Speaker, to support this bill and to encourage open dialogue globally and continuing communication and interchange with the people of South Africa and people of all nations on the Earth. 
   I would remind, also, the body that the record of post-colonial Africa is not a stellar record. There are many problems in the continent, many of those in the southern part of the continent of Africa. And as I travel and visit there and go into the AIDS orphanages in particular and can step into the villages where there isn't a single adult of reproductive age unless they are a missionary, it has been devastating to the continent. We need to have an open dialogue and be frank about our problems and be open in our discussion. Hiding our dialogue because we're afraid we might hurt someone's feelings only pushes the problem further downward instead of letting it surface so that we can all address it together with open eyes, open ears, and open dialogue. 
   That's what we did yesterday in my meeting, which I so gratefully received Ambassador Nhlapo into my office. And in that engaging conversation, I'm confident that we have opened up communications for a continued dialogue, and I trust that this bill will open communications for further dialogue, and I certainly support this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Kansas for yielding. 
   I have listened to the opening of this debate, and I think sometimes we get a little bit confused about what it is about. But there is plenty of evidence out here and plenty of support out here that the polar bear population is not threatened. There is a healthy population of 25,000 worldwide, I think. And contrary to the gentleman's remarks  about it being in America, it's globally, that population; and that it has been carefully studied, and that the permits that are issued generate funds for Native North Americans as well as funds to help sustain the polar bear population. 
   I think what this debate is about, and I can't question, certainly, anybody motives, but I can tell you what I got here. I got an announcement that said: ``This recorded vote will be scored on the 2007 Humane Society scorecard.'' 
   So I look at the information that I see, and much of it is source from that Web page, which I happened to have printed as well. 
   But I think the debate is a broader debate than the debate of the welfare of the polar bear. I think this debate is about, and I am going to broaden this, ``the incremental implementation of global vegetarianism.'' That's the big picture. And the second picture is, ban sport hunting. And the third picture is, ban livestock production and feeding. And the fourth picture is, ban the consumption of meat. All that stuff fits within this big umbrella. This is one component of the much broader picture. 
   But if you take it back down to the issue that was raised, and another one is using the canard of global warming being the issue, well, it actually works against you, gentlemen. If you're worried about global warming and if you're worried about the habitat for polar bears being diminished by global warming, then humane hunting would be the thing to do as the habitat diminishes to make sure they had a healthy habitat for them to roam on. That's not the case. It's a canard, not a reason. And it's not an environmental reason. It's a broader agenda, through which the environmental and global warming agenda fits. 
   So this is sound science that holds this up on this side. And sports hunting is a good way to manage population. 
   I would urge the defeat of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2419, FOOD, CONSERVATION, AND ENERGY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Virginia for his hard work and the chairman for his hard work. 
   Mr. Speaker, I will hit a quick list in my 1 minute. This bill cuts direct payments. We should not do that. That's green box, and that helps us stay in compliance with WTO. 
   It cuts a blenders' credit on ethanol. We should not do that, because that slows capital investment into ethanol production from corn. 
   It requires Davis-Bacon wage scales, which will reduce the numbers of ethanol plants we can build from five with the same money down to four. It imposes union scale in the countryside. We should not do that. 
   It has in it Pigford farms, which the gentleman spoke to, that's ripe with fraud. I will prove that over the months as it unfolds. 
   The other side of this coin is--you have to ask and answer this question--how does this bill get better if it fails here on the floor of this Congress? What comes out of the House and the Senate in a better configuration? Does it get better or does it get worse? 
   If you can paint a scenario by which it gets better, then you vote ``no.'' If you paint a scenario by which it gets worse, you vote ``yes.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (DOT-COM BUBBLE BURST -- (House of Representatives - February 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I want to thank the presenters of the previous hour that have come down here, especially my friend, Mr. Ryan from Ohio. They have been persistent and they have been relentless. 
   At some point I think it would be very engaging for us to be able to actually share an hour and do that kind of point, counterpoint that can bring these issues to the top for the American people. And I want to say again, my highest compliment is for persistence. I am going to make some comments here on accuracy and on perspective. 
   I think we need to take us back. Since we have gone back to the future in this last hour, Madam Speaker, I would take us back to where we were here in the United States of America on the date, and I will call it September 10, 2001. 
   That was the date on which we were in the middle of the bursting of the dot-com bubble, the day before the September 11 attacks on our financial centers, the Pentagon and in the fields of Pennsylvania, which may have been the White House or this Capitol building itself, Madam Speaker. 
   On that day, the American people were just beginning to understand what had happened to our economy. We had this growing economy that has been credited over here many, many times over to President Clinton. I want to tell you that the Republican Congress balanced the budget through the 1990s. And they might have done so because they did not approve of the Clinton policies. There might have been a measure of spite. But they balanced the budget. 
   And the reason I will give that credit to the Republican majority in this Congress is because Bill Clinton vetoed  their budget several times. That kept us from having a balanced budget until finally they had to reach a compromise, and those balanced budgets flowed forward. 
   This economy grew, and it grew out beyond expectations. And the biggest reason, Madam Speaker, that it grew was because we had this economic phenomenon called the dot-com bubble. Well the dot-com bubble was that we had discovered in our research, in our technology and science and in information, that the microchip and the configuration of the microchip and the configurations of the software and our infrastructure that allowed us to put that all together, we found out in the middle 1990s that we could store and transfer information more quickly than ever before in all of history. 
   And when that happened, there were companies that looked around and said, voila, we have a microchip. We can find a way to do something with that. Let's start up a dot-com company and we will go public and we will sell shares on our ability to store and transfer information more efficiently than ever before, Madam Speaker. 
   And so those companies lit up and did that. And the stock market grew and grew and grew and grew. And there was a return on those investments, not because the companies were making money, but on the speculative value, Madam Speaker, on the ability to store and transfer information faster than ever before. 
   That went through the 1990s and into the year 2000. And in the year 2000, President Bush was elected. And about that time, sometime about the beginning actually of the year 2000, the market, the stock market began to understand that this dot-com bubble, which was this growth in the values of their shares on the New York Stock Exchange was really based upon the speculation that we could store and transfer information more quickly than ever before, and not based upon the economic value of the ability to be able to store and transfer information more quickly than ever before. 
   And so the adjustments began to be made in that stock market. And when they were made, it took it down to, what is this information worth? Just because we can store and transfer it more quickly does not mean it has more value, it has to add efficiency to the productivity of companies, or it has got to have a marketable value to people that will say pay a higher price for a higher speed Internet, not just for their business reasons, that is legitimate, but also for their recreational reasons. 
   Only two reasons this information age that had blossomed and grown, Madam Speaker, only had value because it added efficiency to the companies that we had and those that would be developed and grown, or that ability to store and transfer information could be marketed for recreational purposes. 
   Well, about the year 2000 the market began making those adjustments. And the market decided there is too much capital invested in this. There is too much speculation invested in this. We really cannot turn out the kind of productivity that is necessary to justify the capital investment that had grown this dot-com bubble in our marketplace. 
   And so astute investors began to divest themselves of their investments within those dot-com companies, some of them not all of them. Those that had the highest promise, at least on the measure of the capital invested, the money stayed with them. Those that had the least promise the money left them. 
   As the market adjusted, we had this thing we called the bursting of the dot-com bubble. That took place in about the year 2000, 2000, 2001, as President Bush was being sworn in out here on the west portico of the Capitol for his first term in January of 2001, the bursting of the dot-com bubble was almost audible at that point. 
   Well, as that bubble slowly burst and flowed across the year 2001, Madam Speaker, it took us up to September 11 of 2001, when, as we know, the planes went crashing into the Twin Towers and into the Pentagon, into the field in Pennsylvania. 
   And the attack on our financial centers, and an attack on our strategic center over here at the Pentagon, of our military strategic center, was devastating. It was designed to take the financial center of the United 
   States of America to its knees. 
   Well, that did shut down our financial center the rest of that week. We were open for business, might have actually been on the following Friday, but we were at least open for business the following Monday after September 11. But we got our stock market up and going again, our financial centers started going again. We patched things in. We rigged them up so that we could work and we could trade. As we began to trade, the markets began to adjust the impact on them. 
   That blow to our financial centers on September 11, on top of the bursting of the dot-com bubble where there were two devastating hits on our economy, yes we were cruising along, Madam Speaker, with anticipated balanced budgets as far as the eye could see. But those balanced budgets did not anticipate the bursting of the dot-com bubble, nor did they anticipate the attack on the Twin Towers in New York City. 
   And so we began to make our adjustments. And then following that, the obvious result was, that we had to spend hundreds of billions of dollars to protect us from the terrorists who were attacking the United States of America and western civilization itself. 
   That took money, Madam Speaker. And this Congress pulled together in bipartisan effort, Democrats over here, Republicans over here, came together and said we are one people. We are the United States of America and our number one most responsible Constitutional position is to protect the American people. 
   And so we set forth here in this Congress to protect the American people. And some of the things that we did were to provide that our military could, number one, go over to Afghanistan and into the mountains in Pakistan and go take out those al-Qaeda centers where they had been strategizing and planning these terrorist attacks on the United States. 
   And in the process it was necessary to liberate Afghanistan and set up a government in Afghanistan that reflected the will of the people, a government of, by and for the people of Afghanistan. We did that within 2 to 2 1/2 months of the September 11 attacks in 2001, at the cost of billions of dollars, Madam Speaker. 
   Now here we are, the bursting of the dot-com bubble, the attacks on the Twin Towers, our financial centers, and the Pentagon and in Pennsylvania, and the necessity to engage in military conflict clear across the globe over in Afghanistan and Pakistan, which our glorious United States military did so successfully, and took out the Taliban and liberated the Afghani people. The Afghan people went to the polls there in that country for the first time in the history of the world. A magnanimous thing, all at great cost for a great cause. 
   These three things that I have talked about, Madam Speaker, the bursting of the dot-com bubble, which brought our stock market down, the attacks on our financial centers at the Twin Towers took it down further, and the cost of supporting and maintaining and equipping our military to liberate the Afghan people all three things hit this budget hard. 
   Now, I do not think there was anyone on that side of the aisle that made the argument then that we should have only done these things within the confines of a balanced budget. I did not hear them say that. I did not hear anybody say that. I did not even read an editorial that said, well, you know, it is a pretty responsible thing that we have to do here, we have to recover from the bursting of the dot-com bubble, we have got to recover from the attack on the Twin Towers, and we have to spend tens of billions, in fact more than a hundred billion dollars going into Afghanistan to take out the Taliban and al-Qaeda and free the Afghan people, but we should only do so within the confines of a balanced budget. 
   No, nobody said that, Madam Speaker. Nobody on that side said that. Nobody on this side said that. We were unanimous in our judgment that we needed to protect the American people at whatever cost. And so our military went forth, under the command and order of our commander in chief and carried out their duty and liberated the Afghan people and took out the Taliban and took out al-Qaeda in the mountains in Afghanistan and in Pakistan.     
   They did their job. We all knew that we would be deficit spending here in this Congress to protect the American people because the decision of balancing the budget in a time of great national peril was not a hard decision. When you are in great national peril you go into debt. 
   Can anyone imagine fighting World War II when we spent 38 percent of our gross domestic product on our military, fighting that war without going into debt? We sold war bonds over and over and over again. We ginned up Hollywood. Hollywood started running movies to raise the morale of the American people and to keep us together as one people. And strategy after strategy was designed here out of Washington and from Franklin Delano Roosevelt to pull us together as a people, to not be divisive, to unify in our efforts against the Nazis to our east and the imperialist Japanese to our west. That was the strategy of the United States, and we pulled together as one people, Madam Speaker. And we spent 38 percent of our gross domestic product in those years of World War II. 
   And the zero unemployment that we have today at about 4.6 percent during World War II went to 1.3. That is closer to a full employment economy. It is still not a full employment economy, but that is a lot closer. 
   And we sit here today, and I am hearing the argument that somehow we should have walked through this whole thing with a balanced budget. You know, if we had done that, there is something my friends on the other side of the aisle that know to be fact and, in fact, I think they are whistling through the graveyard crossing their fingers behind their back saying I wish that that had been the case. They know that if we had done so and balanced the budget then we would have gone into a tailspin recession, if not a hard core depression. 
   But what happened throughout that, the bursting of the dot-com bubble, the attacks on the twin towers, the liberation of Afghanistan and subsequently the liberation of the Iraqi people, what happened, was our Commander in Chief, who also is the President of the United States, George W. Bush, came to this Congress with two financial proposals, two tax cut proposals, one in 2001 and one in 2003. And the vision was this, if we don't reduce taxes and stimulate this economy, the burden of this bursting of the dot-com bubble and the attack on the twin towers and the necessity to liberate Afghanistan and Iraq, the burden of all of that will fall on this economy, and the United States of America would certainly, and I don't mean, Madam Speaker, almost certainly, I mean the burden certainly would have fallen on this economy and it certainly would have put us in a recession, and perhaps a severe depression. 
   Now, Madam Speaker, I would submit that if we were to consider what this country would have been like if we had not cut taxes, if we had not reduced capital gains, if we had not reduced dividend taxes, if we hadn't let people keep more of the money that they earn and allow them to reinvest it and get a return on that investment, if we hadn't made those changes in the 2001 and 2003 Bush tax cuts, this economy would have slowed to a crawl. It would have tail spun into a recession, perhaps a depression. 
   But the President knew, and this Congress knew, and the Republican majority knew, and I thank you all of my colleagues for being part of that, knew that if we could cut taxes we could stimulate economic growth. If we can stimulate economic growth, we can grow our way out of this deficit spending that is necessary at this time of great national peril. And that is what we did. We did follow the leadership of the White House and President Bush. We did cut taxes in 2001. We did cut taxes in 2003. And the economy responded in kind. And there is no logical argument that the cutting of taxes did not stimulate the economy. 
   If anybody over on this side has a disagreement, I would be happy to yield some time. But it did stimulate the economy, and this economy grew. And quarter after quarter after quarter, we saw the longest period of economic growth in the history of the United States of America flow forth through this economy, quarter after quarter. And most of those quarters were over 3 percent growth. And I would quote it all back to you but it has been so good that I have lost track the last two or three quarters, so I can't tell you exactly what those numbers are. But I know there have many, many quarters that this economy has grown and grown significantly, perhaps grown dramatically. But this is a stable, long term growth just the kind you want if you draw it up on the chart. 
   And so here we are. After a political campaign, November 7 election, after I have heard over here this economy is bad and it is not providing jobs for people, well, when has it been better? If anybody on that side of the aisle has an answer to that, I would be happy to yield to you. Just stand up. I would be happy to yield to you. When has the economy been better than it is now? 
   When has it grown more consistently? When has it provided more jobs? When has the private sector had more stimulation than it has now? Not in my lifetime, Madam Speaker. This is the best economy that we have ever seen. 
   And here we are, it is stimulated by the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003, and we are faced with, now, a Democrat majority that wants to increase taxes. So I have a few charts here to help people out, Madam Speaker. And this chart says, having called the tax cuts beyond irresponsible, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee said, he cannot think of one of George Bush's first term tax cuts that merit renewal. 
   Well, those first term tax cuts include all of the Bush tax cuts, as my recollection is. So if he can't think of one that merits renewal, Madam Speaker, I would point out, I can't think of one that does not merit renewal, that this economic growth and this economic recovery has been almost a historical miracle. 
   But for the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee to not acknowledge an economic fact, Madam Speaker, is an astonishing thing. And as I listen to the debate here on the floor tonight, and as I listen to my colleagues here deliver their view and their opinion, which they are entirely welcome to, and I respect that, it occurs to me that their probably isn't one shred of empirical data that would pry them off of their political position. 
   But I will say that we have the ability over here on this side of the aisle to deductively reason, and we know that there are incentives for people, and when there is profit involved, people produce more. When there is less profit involved they will produce less. And if there is no profit involved, even if they want to produce, they won't last long. Their business will go under and they will go broke. 
   So in a free market economy, you have to have people that can make a little bit of money. And if they can make a little money, they are going to like it and they will make a little more money. And when you have a tax and a regulatory structure that allows for people to have some profit, they will continue to produce. And our gross domestic product goes up and the number of jobs go up and the wages that they can afford to pay go up and the benefits that they pay go up, which means the families are better off, that is more money, Madam Speaker, in the pockets of the families of the American people. And then we become a better place to live. 
   And these Bush tax cuts have not reduced the revenue stream into this country. They have increased it by every measure imaginable. And it might be possible to do a static kind of a calculation that says, well, yes, if we just increase taxes 50 percent we will get 50 percent more revenue. Madam Speaker, I won't disagree with that. You can do that static calculation, and you may actually even get 50 percent more revenue the very first quarter that you increase taxes by 50 percent. 
   But human nature has got to play into that equation too, and human nature says, well, taxes were too high. I don't think I really want to work those extra overtime hours. I don't want to do 60 hours a week. I am going to be happy with 40 because Uncle Sam takes too big of a cut. The taxes are too high. I am not going to sit there and make those extra sales phone calls at night. I am going to go home and see my family. I am going to settle for less income. Or the business owner that says well, the taxes are too high. I was going to add an extra line on to my  manufacturing plant here and hire an extra hundred people, but, no, taxes are too high. The regulations are too high. I am going to be just satisfied with what I have. Or maybe shrink it down a little bit and maximize my profits and just stay here, hold the status quo.     
   That is what goes on in the minds of the people who are creating the jobs in America, especially America's small business people. For when they hear over here, Madam Speaker, that they want to increase taxes and punish the producers in America, the producers aren't stupid. They are going to decide I can take so much punishment but I can't take that much punishment; so I am going to back up a little bit and I am going to back off. I am going to quit creating jobs and probably lay a few people off. I am going to consolidate my business, and maybe I will just coast out the rest of my life. And you have lost that business owner for the rest of their life. And you have got to then rely on some young entrepreneur to come in and light this thing up. But why will they if you take away, in your perverse way, taxing the incentives of the entrepreneurs of America, which is a life blood of who we are as a people? 
   So the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, having called the tax cuts beyond irresponsible, the chairman said he cannot think of one of George Bush's first-term tax cuts that merits renewal. Astonishing. Would you really want to back up and give up on the longest period of growth in history, and I have to be careful of that, at least in my history? And I know of no time in the history of the United States of America where we had more growth. 
   Well, it is one thing, Madam Speaker, to take the position that the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee cannot think of one that merits renewal, but here is a statement that comes from the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, and that is September 26 of 2006, where he vowed to put all of President Bush's 2001 and 2003 tax cuts on the chopping block. 
   Why? Why in the world, Madam Speaker, would you take something that has proven success, this long period of growth that has run 3 percent and more for most of the last dozen quarters or more, dozen and a half quarters at least, and put them all on the chopping block and chop them off and let them go? Why? Why would that be the case? Aren't we looking forward to a chairman of the Ways and Means Committee that maybe is an economist or at least a well-versed, well-read amateur economist, and wouldn't an economist who is the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee want to have reasonable growth, maybe even dynamic growth, here in the United States of America? What would be the merit in trying to kill the economy of the country that you have sworn to defend and that you love, and, in fact, in his case, has stood up and put his life on the line and defended, to his credit? 
   It can only be one thing. I do not think he really wants to destroy the economy of the United States of America, but I think there is a political agenda, Madam Speaker. And this will be devastating to the economy of the United States if these tax cuts from 2001 and 2003 are put on the chopping block. And it isn't that they have to be put on the block and voted down. These tax cuts sunset. They will need action in the House and the Senate to be renewed. And they need to be renewed because we know what kind of growth they have stimulated. 
   In fact, last September, and I believe the date was September 15, under these Bush tax cuts, the Federal Government collected more money on that day than any other day in the history of the United States of America. September 15, 2006. That would be the last time that happened under the Rangel plan. 
   So, Madam Speaker, I would submit that these tax cuts do have a sunset and that sunset for them, the date that they expire, is 1,426 days from now; 1,426 from now, Madam Speaker, and if this Congress does nothing, they expire. 
   Now, I would ask why would it be that the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Speaker Pelosi, and the leadership on the Democrat side of the aisle would want to see the Bush tax cuts expire. Well, it is because if that does not happen, they cannot balance their budget. They can't balance their budget without an increase in taxes. And this brings about, when those dates expire, a real increase in taxes. Regardless of how it is voted, regardless of how the bill is brought forward, regardless of what might be amended, in the end if these tax cuts are not extended, the result is a tax increase. A tax increase will temporarily fund their spending increases, and they will be able to claim that they have a balanced budget for a little while. 
   But that won't last long, Madam Speaker. But the temporary timing of this comes together in such a way that the expiration of the Bush tax cuts in 1,426 days is nice and handy because they can use that to claim that they are complying with PAYGO, the pay-as-you-go plan, the not-going-to-spend-any-more-money-than-you-have-coming-in plan, the plan that says if we want to spend more money, we will just increase taxes on the backs of the American people, the hardworking American people. And I believe the government takes enough out of their paychecks, Madam Speaker. 
   I believe we have hardworking Americans who are still working hard and struggling to make ends meet. They have to have a budget. The American people have to meet that budget. When they look at what they need to do in order to live within their means, they make those decisions, Madam Speaker. And they don't have the option to decide in 1,426 days I am going to raise taxes. I am going to kick that up to the point where now I can raise spending. 
   No. The American people have to be responsible. They have to look at the paycheck they have coming in and make decisions on what they can afford, what standard of living they can afford to have. And so they will decide if they can have that cabin at the lake or that new SUV or that boat or whether they are going to plastic their windows and try to keep their heat bill down so that they can live within their means. We all have to make those kinds of decisions to live within our means, and when a decision is made to take money out of the pockets of the American people, those people that are out there putting plastic over their windows in one of the coldest winters that we have had in a long, long time, Madam Speaker, and we are taxing them, raising their taxes so that this government can spend more money to buy more votes and influence more people across this country, it is a travesty of justice. 
   I have been with some of the Democrats, Madam Speaker, and some of them said they want to balance the budget. And when they say that, you can't get them to admit that they want to increase taxes to balance the budget. Some of the Blue Dogs will say they want to balance the budget in a responsible way. I can't get them to say they would do so without increasing taxes. In fact, whenever they have offered a balanced budget here on the floor, it always has had an increase in taxes as part of their balanced budget. 
   So I have taken a look at our budget, Madam Speaker, and decided what needs to happen. If we are going to balance the budget, the American people ought to know what it takes to balance the budget here in the United States of America. About $2.8 trillion is our budget, and we have a lot of revenue coming in, and the revenue increase has been double digits the last 2 to 3 years because this economy has been so strong and the unemployment has been so low and the new jobs created have been so dynamic. All of this seems to be a secret to the American people, but that is all fact, Madam Speaker. But still we have this growth in entitlements. The entitlements of Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and you add to that the cost of interest that is going up, and as interest goes up, of course, the more national debt that we have. No one in this Congress aside from myself, Madam Speaker, is talking about how do you balance the budget, how do you balance the budget without increasing taxes. 
   I want this dynamic economy. I want to see double-digit increase in our revenue stream. I don't want to kill the goose that lays the golden egg. The people on this side of the aisle, Madam Speaker, have a belief that there is something evil about that goose that lays the golden egg, and they want to  kill that goose by increasing taxes. But as for me, I will submit that I am willing to cut some spending. Let us take this on down to the point where we can balance this budget and then balance the budget without increasing taxes, Madam Speaker. 
   And I have done a little calculation on this, and this is nothing but a little napkin calculation with a calculator off of my belt, and the final numbers will be coming in in the next couple of days, and if all goes well, I will be able to introduce a bill and we can have a debate on this floor on a real balanced budget, Madam Speaker.     
   But if we were to hold defense spending harmless, let defense spending grow the way it needs to, because we have to protect the American people, set that part aside, and then put into it non-defense discretionary spending, that is the spending that is not including the entitlements, being Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, also the necessity to pay for the interest on the national debt, those things all tied together, plus non-defense discretionary, all of that together, if we would look at the 2007 fiscal year budget and make adjustments in that for 2008, it would be necessary for us to cut about 8 percent across-the-board in all of those categories if we were going to balance the budget. 
   So when the American people clamor for a balanced budget, they need to understand what they are talking about. They need to understand the impact on their own budget, what happens to their Social Security benefits, their Medicaid and Medicaid benefits, and, of course, we have to pay the interest bill, and then how we have to shrink down some of the discretionary spending in this Federal budget. 
   All of that can happen with the support of the American people. An 8 percent cut seems to me to be a bit Draconian. But if we had frozen our Federal spending when I came to this Congress in 2003, we would have a balanced budget today, Madam Speaker, with a minimal amount of pain, and we would be able to have a debate for the American people that would be focused on what is the future of this country going to be? 
   We can't make these adjustments to Social Security if we are not willing to make those changes that were called for by President Bush with personal retirement accounts. If we can't give people a percentage of their Social Security that they are contributing into their own control so that they can have some investment in their own destiny, while we guarantee those benefits to our seniors, if we can't make those changes, the inevitable result is, Madam Speaker, we will have to cut the benefits to our seniors. 
   I want to keep that pledge to our seniors. Because of that, I want to configure a kind of Social Security reform that will allow for a measure of that to go into personal retirement accounts so that we can get people with their own accounts down the road a ways that can be independent and stand up and take care of their own retirement. That an essential component of this. 
   If we don't do that, we are going to have to look the American people in the eye and say we didn't have the will to do the right thing. Now we are going to have to do the necessary thing. The necessary thing then would be to reduce benefits or increase contributions. In either case, increasing contributions at a time when we have fewer people working and more people collecting, as the baby-boomers come on line, and I am one, Madam Speaker, it is no time to put more burden on the workers in America. That will be the inevitable result if we are not able to bring reform to the Social Security plan. 
   So, 8 percent across-the-board, holding defense spending harmless, that will get us pretty close to a balanced budget. That is 8 percent plus or minus about half a percent. Closer numbers are coming in in the next few days. 
   Now, the question is, over here as I listen to the people on the other side of the aisle, they don't seem to trust the free markets. In fact, I don't know that they understand the free markets. But the question for the American people, Madam Speaker, is do you trust government or do you trust free markets? Do you trust them when it comes to who is going to do the best job of managing and controlling your money? 
   I will submit that the people that earn the money ought to have control of the money, and they will spend it better than government spends it almost every time. When it comes to health care, they need control of their own health care. They have to be able to control their own destiny, to have the freedom of choice to decide where they want to invest their health care dollars. 
   I appreciate the President coming here to this floor and speaking from the location where you are, Madam Speaker, about the need to provide for full deductibility for health insurance premiums, at least for those with under $15,000 in health insurance premiums. 
   We have had a pretty good and healthy history with employer-based health care plans, but it is not enough. We have too many American people that are not insured for health care. If we can give them full deductibility of their health care benefits so they can make that deduction and make the calculation on their bottom line and determine it is better for them to be insured than not be insured, we will have, instead of having 47 million people uninsured, we will have far less uninsured, and this country is better off and people will be making more decisions individually between them and their doctor. 
   I want the American people to negotiate with their doctor, every individual American to have that personal relationship and be able to control that account and have an insurance policy that they know and understand and one that is fully deductible and one that is portable; one that even though the employer may contribute to the premium, they can take it with them when they go from job to job, which there is more job moving now than in the history of this country. 
   I want the American people to have a Health Savings Account, Madam Speaker, that they can invest money in; that goes in tax-free, and then as the money rolls out that is spent back into premiums, in major medical health care and having regular annual tests to monitor their health situation, so that we have a healthy America with all the right incentives that are set up, rather than the perverse incentives being set up. 
   Then one day, having those Americans that are young today, they could put a little over $5,000 into their Health Savings Account annually and manage their health care and get the tests done, watch their weight, exercise, abstain from tobacco, minimize their alcohol use and have a healthy lifestyle, those Americans will arrive at retirement with six figures times something in their Health Savings Account. 
   Madam Speaker, it is my view and my vision that that day will come when there are hundreds of thousands of dollars wrapped up in individual Health Savings Accounts that haven't been used because they have a healthy lifestyle, and they have been insured for catastrophic insurance and had enough money to take care of the deductible in order to do that, and saved hundreds and thousands of dollars in their health insurance premiums. When they arrive at 65 and qualify for Medicare, we can look at them and say, well, Joe and Sally, you have done pretty well. You have taken care of your health and you have got this nice nest egg in your Health Savings Account. And let's just say it is half a million dollars, just to put a big number up there on the board, and let's just say at age 65 they can negotiate for a paid up health insurance plan, Madam Speaker, for the balance of their life that would substitute for Medicare. 
   Let's just say the Federal Government can step in there and say, you know what we are going to help subsidize that? We would like to buy you down on that. We can get together on that. Out of your $500,000 and our Federal Treasury, we will put together some money so that we can provide a paid health insurance plan, and that paid up health insurance plan would substitute for Medicare, and the rest of your life you would be covered under that, kind of like an annuity that takes care of your health care. 
   Then, let's just say that that takes $250,000 out of the $500,000 that happens to be in the Health Savings Account by the time Joe and Sally, who are now at the young age, arrive at 65 and qualify for Medicare, now they have a quarter of a million dollars left over. What we  would they do that? My answer would be whatever you so choose. You have managed your lives well. You have been fortunate. You have a strong Health Savings Account. You provided a paid up health insurance plan for the rest of your life, you and our Medicare funding has supplemented to create that. Now we want to reward you and let you take the money out of your Health Savings Account, travel the world, will it to your kids, do whatever you would like to do. 
   Madam Speaker, who could be opposed to such a thing? I would submit there will be many on this side of the aisle that will be opposed to such a thing because they don't want independence for the American people. They don't have confidence in the judgment of the American people. They want dependence for the American people. They want the American people to be dependent so they can come back to Congress and say I need you. Set me up a health care plan and tax my neighbor, tax that rich person, punish them for their productivity. Give me some of the benefits of that. They set up this class warfare which empowers them politically. That is the side of the aisle, the psychology that comes there. 
   Then, Madam Speaker, as I watch this clock tick down, there are a few other pieces of subject matter that need to be addressed. One of them was brought up by our group here in the previous hour, and that was the issue of energy. 
   I know that we have disagreed consistently on what we should do to develop American energy sources. My view is we need to develop our American energy sources. Every place where we can legitimately do so in an environmentally friendly fashion, we should open up American energy.     
   We have at least 406 trillion cubic feet of natural gas offshore, and most of that is offshore around Florida and some in the gulf that is not Florida. 406 trillion cubic feet of natural gas; and yet we sit here, and last fall, last minute in our lame duck session we opened up a tiny little sliver of offshore drilling. 
   We have mineral rights out to 200 miles, and yet the idea is if we would put a gas well down at 199 miles out, somebody that was planning on going to Florida to sit on the beach would hear about that and decide, well, I know I can't see 199 miles out offshore, but somehow I would know that was out there so I don't want to sit on a beach that has somebody drawing natural gas off a platform that is invisible to me and environmentally friendly. 
   And, by the way, there has been no gas well that has ever polluted anything anytime. If there has ever been a gas well eruption, it went off into the atmosphere. And so it is not an environmental issue; and because they are out so far from the shoreline it is not a scenery issue, which is no excuse anyway, Madam Speaker. It is a political issue. 
   Here in this country we have people who are environmentalists who jump on the environmental band wagon and then they oppose anything that they decide could have an argument that would be against the environment, and they do so so they can raise political money and they can support political candidates, and they do so in defiance of rationale and they do so in defiance of logic. 
   Again, they have set aside this Western Civilization tenet of the age of reason, deductive reasoning. Deductive reasoning says, well, if you have a lot of natural gas offshore in Florida and if you can only see about 12 miles offshore, and even if you could see those rigs out there, it doesn't matter to me, I could sit on the beach with a rig out there, it is something to look at. But it is beyond where they could see. 
   Would you not in a deductively reasoning way, Madam Speaker, go in there and explore for that oil and the gas and open that up and bring that natural gas into the United States and produce all the things we do, plastics and fertilizer? I mean, the cost of our fertilizer is the cost of our food. The nitrogen fertilizer that goes in, 90 percent of the input comes from natural gas. So you can't grow anything without nitrogen. And our corn that produces our ethanol is founded in a nitrogen base. 
   So if we are going to be able to reduce our dependency on foreign oil, we have got to have more natural gas to produce the fertilizer. And we can go out there and explore for that and have American energy coming up out of the bottom of the ocean and pumping it into the United States and turning it into fertilizer and heating our homes and our factories and using it to produce all kinds of a myriad of products. But somehow the environmentalists have blocked that all down, not because it is rational, not because they can deductively reason that it makes sense, but simply because there is some visceral instinct that says we think we can raise some campaign dollars and we can get some people to oppose that. 
   And, by the way, if we are emotional about it, they won't even stop and think. Which is the truth, Madam Speaker. They didn't stop and think about ANWR, either. And I did. And I thought, well, if this is perhaps today's largest energy reserve that the United States of America has, and if I am seeing commercials that show the Sierra Club and they put out this commercial that shows this pristine alpine forest and they say don't go up there and explore in ANWR because you will be destroying this pristine alpine forest, and I looked at that and I thought some of that doesn't add up so good for me, Madam Speaker. 
   So I went up there to ANWR, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, ANWR, traveled all over it, flew over it, down low, looked for everything, looked for wildlife, hours in the air at the lowest altitude they let us fly looking out the windows trying to find massive caribou herd or maybe reindeer herd or a lot of polar bears or maybe some seals swimming around out there. And in all of that flight back and forth and looking down and all of us looking out the windows, Madam Speaker, we saw two white birds and four musk oxen. And those four musk oxen were standing there with their heads down doing nothing, of course it was cold, and they weren't disturbed by anything going on. 
   Madam Speaker, I would submit that some of the environmentalists on the other side of the aisle, and one comes to mind would perhaps be my friend DENNIS KUCINICH from Ohio, go up there with me sometime and let's look out the window of the plane and fly along and see if you can point out the oil fields that are there in the North Slope, the North Slope that went through all the court action back in the early 1970s, the beginning of the Alaska pipeline, and point out there on the North Slope where are these oil wells; where is this desecration to our environment; where is the desecration to the scenery. Show it to me. 
   I will fly you over the whole thing, Madam Speaker, and look down. And I can point them out now because I have been there and I have been to school, and I will tell you there is not a single derrick sticking out of the air like you imagine, no Texas oil rig from the 1930s. There is not a single pump jack sitting there cranking out the oil out of the ground and leaking a little oil back into the ground. It doesn't exist. The only thing you will see, and now I will tip you off if you want to go, you might be able to see it as I tell you what you are going to be looking for, and that is a rock workover pad maybe 50 feet wide by 100 feet long, maybe a little longer, that sits up about 3 feet above the arctic tundra, white stone like limestone, probably is, a pad that you can bring a workover rig on if you need to work the well in the wintertime. 
   And as they come in to work those wells, they will come in on ice roads, ice roads that will melt in the summertime that don't damage the tundra, and they will set the rig up. And the pumps are all submersible. You can't see the well, you can't see the casing, you can't see the pump, and you can't see the collection tubes. 
   That is all out of the sights and minds of the people that are up there because this is an environmentally friendly development of the North Slope. 
   Madam Speaker, we can do better in the development, even better in the development of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. We have technology to do directional drilling, and that will reduce our footprint considerably. 
   So why would we, the American people, insist upon going over to the Middle East and buying oil from, some are  friends, many are enemies, enriching them, making us more dependent on Middle Eastern oil while we have these massive supplies of energy within our own country? Why would we not, Madam Speaker, develop American energy supplies. Why would we not go down into the Gulf of Mexico and open up the Chevron fields down there that have been found that might increase the supply of our energy by 50 percent, just what is found offshore in the gulf south and west of New Orleans, the Chevron fields. Why would we not do that? 
   Why would this Congress, Madam Speaker, pass legislation that would change the deal that these companies have with the United States of America and say to our best friend oil companies who are developing this energy: we are going to have to renegotiate your leases. We thought it was a good deal when we made it, but now we know something that we didn't know then. So we want to scrap and tear up the leases that you had, the ones that gave you enough profit that you put some incentive into research and development and the exploration, and we want that money, we want that profit. We as a Federal Government want to tax your income more. And then if you don't do that, then we are not going to let you ever sign another lease with the Federal Government or the United States. 
   What are you going to do, Madam Speaker, if you are Chevron or if you are Exxon or if you are Shell or any other company that is one of those great oil companies here in the United States if you get that kind of message from this Congress? I will submit, Madam Speaker, that what you would do is you would take your investments over to foreign countries. You would go offshore in Australia, you would go somewhere else, you would go up in the North Sea, you would go somewhere offshore in West Africa and put your investments there where they are safer. They might be nationalized by some tyrannical government, but they are probably not going to come in and change the deal. They are probably not going to come in and confiscate your investment like this legislation that passed off the floor of this Congress last week or the week before. When the United States of America makes a deal, Madam Speaker, they have got to keep the deal. 
   We saw oil prices go up, we saw barrel price go up to $75 a barrel. We watched it now drop down to the low $50 a barrel. The reason for that is because the supply has gotten greater on the marketplace. The biggest reasons for that is because there was profit in it, that companies that were making money were reinvesting that profit in research and development and producing more oil and putting more of it on the market. We need to thank those companies that have provided this supply for the United States, not punish them for the extra taxes, because these American companies have made us less dependent on Middle Eastern oil, not more dependent. And the actions of this Congress in this past month have made the United States of America more dependent on Middle Eastern oil, not less dependent on Middle Eastern oil. And that is the difference. 
   What we have passed has hurt America's economy, and what we need to do is allow the companies that invest in research and development to make some profit so they will do more of the same. And if there is more energy on the market, then energy will be cheaper. 
   So I will submit, Madam Speaker, that we need more BTUs in the marketplace; we need to grow the size of the energy pie. The more energy there is in the marketplace, the cheaper it all will be. And we have to have incentives for business to step in and do the right thing. That is the natural part that we should understand when we understand free enterprise capitalism. 
   If anybody has a little difficulty handling that, they should pick up a copy of ``Wealth of Nations'' written by Adam Smith published in 1776. He was an economist at the University of Glasgow in Scotland, and he laid out the principles of free enterprise capitalism, free market economics, and he understood human nature. And all of those things have to be tied together to make these work. We can't defy human nature, Madam Speaker. We must respect and honor human nature. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (TRAGEDY IN IOWA -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, as always, it is a profound privilege to be recognized to address you here on the floor of the United States Congress. 
   I come here to the floor, and first I can't begin this discussion over the next 60 minutes without first taking up the issue of the natural disaster tragedies in Iowa. From my history and experience, I go back a ways working with the natural environment and the natural disasters we have had. I remember a tragic tornado at Belmond, I lived through the 1993 floods, and when my equipment and my livelihood was under water, I went to eastern Iowa and down to Keokuk to help out down there because it was the only thing I could do to improve the situation because mine was not in a condition where it could be helped, at least for a few days. 
   As I lived through those experiences and as the Katrina hurricane came up and in the aftermath of Hurricane Andrew, for example, I was one of the first Members of Congress to arrive down in New Orleans. I made multiple trips down there into the heart of it. I have something like 3,600 pictures taken of Hurricane Katrina's aftermath when New Orleans was full of water. I have been on the ground and in the air, and I have slept on the Red Cross cot and I looked the people in the eye who were underwater and still suffer from that tragedy. I am not without experience. 
   Personally, I lost a considerable amount in the floods of 1993; but also I have the experience as a Member of Congress who has gone into these disastrous areas in the world. And Hurricane Katrina being the heart and the worst of it.  
   And yet when I look at Iowa today, and just having come back from the location last Friday morning where I visited where our four Boy Scouts were killed by a tornado and 48 others were injured, they rose up and did everything that they could do. They did everything they could do from a training perspective, and they did everything that they could to prepare. They did everything they could to take shelter with the shelter that they had that was available. And in the aftermath of that disastrous tornado that brought about the four fatalities of the Boy Scouts, they conducted themselves with utter heroism. 
   I stood on the site and listened to the stories from a number of the people on the location. And think of this, Mr. Speaker, 1,800 acres in the loess hills of Iowa, a very remote wilderness Boy Scout camp location that has been used for a number of years as a training location for first aid, first responders, and survival where the Boy Scouts have been trained. 
   And the tragedy of this is that the Boy Scouts are generally some of the first ones to arrive to help sandbag and help prepare for a flood or a disaster. They are some of the first ones to be there and stay there and help clean up in the aftermath. They are some of the first ones to arrive in the aftermath of a tornado or another natural disaster to help clean up, and they are leaders in their own right as youth, and they are also leaders in training for their adulthood. And these were the elite of the elite. These were the stand-out Boy Scouts who were there. There were at least 93 at the location on the night of the tornado. 
   The shelter that they had available to them was small, round little pup tents that were pitched up the finger valleys of what we call the bluffs. It's the loess hills of Iowa. Some of the reporters called it mountains, and I think I am flattered by that. Come see the mountains in western Iowa. They are beautiful. They are about 300 feet high, but they look like mountains on the horizon. 
   When the storm came, the Scouts had a very short window of notice and warning. The visibility lookout across the horizon didn't exist for them because they were in the valley and the tornado that came first set down on the ranger home, and destroyed that home. There was no basement, no shelter for the wind, slab on grade with a large fireplace built into which the tornado knocked down on top of the ranger and his family. They were trapped underneath the rubble. It was three small children, wife and husband, so five of them were trapped under the rubble of cement blocks and stone that was the former fireplace that collapsed on them. 
   And the tornado went from there up the valley and kind of jumped around the finger a little bit and set right in on the shelter house that 40 or 50 Scouts had gone to as quickly as they could when the weather got bad. The tornado picked up a pickup truck and blasted it through the chimney and the fireplace and on through the building, and it landed on the other side. The vehicle was about 100 feet on the one side of the building which I think was south and it landed about 150 feet on the other side of the building. That knocked rubble down on top of the Scouts, and that is where the fatalities took place. And that is where most of the injured of the 48 who were injured out of the roughly 93, and that were taken off for medical care. 
   The Scouts came out of that rubble. Some of them went immediately to the aid of those who were hurt the worst and did the triage that their training had taught. Some ran half a mile to the ranger's house where they could hear the children screaming from underneath the rubble, and pulled that rubble and saved them from suffocation that ultimately would have taken place. The ranger and his wife and children did walk away, although a couple were severely injured. It was a very sad situation with a very heroic reaction. 
   Some of the Scouts then reached to help each other. Some of them went to the first aid kits that they had been issued 2 years and 2 months earlier when they were on the same location and there was a surprise drill that was called by and initiated by the Boy Scout leaders and by the EMT workers from the neighborhood. They joined together at 5 in the morning and they converged on the 1,800 acre Scout camp and simulated a disaster that very much was like the real disaster that came 2 years and 2 months later. 
   The Scouts had their training. They were trained to react quickly. Many of them did. Some of them ran up the hill to a storage shed where they went in and got a couple of all-terrain vehicles and chain saws, and came back down the hill and began sawing the trees out of the way so emergency vehicles could get in. Other Scouts performed first aid with the kits they had been issued 2 years and 2 months earlier. They were saving lives all across that area. 
   The bottom line of it, Mr. Speaker, that the Scouts and their Scoutmasters and the EMTs that converged on the area within 7 minutes, and I would submit that is within 7 minutes even though the nearest town is at least 7 miles away, they saved Lord knows how many lives. But each move they made before the tornado hit and each move that they made after that was as good as it could have been. Sometimes it's just not enough. Sometimes even though everybody does everything right, there still will be loss of life. And four Scouts were called home who will be remembered for all time, especially on that location. 
   I can't say enough about the job that they did, their training and the EMTs in the neighborhood, all of the emergency responders, the law enforcement personnel, the fire departments, the urban teams across the State, everyone that converged on that location began to arrive 7 minutes after the tornado hit. The Scouts were already sawing logs and timber off the pathways so emergency vehicles could go up. Within 2 hours, everyone who was injured and needed medical care was off the site and under medical care at some of the local medical facilities and hospital. Some went to Omaha, and some went to Sioux City. But the largest share went to Burgess Memorial Hospital in Ottumwa. And those that arrived there, I can just sense the tone in the voice of the medical workers there. The thing that they had trained for, one of the things they had feared and trained for all their lives had visited them on that evening last week. 
   They mustered through the cause and provided the best quality medical care possible and took care of the patients, the 20 patients out of the 48 that arrived at Burgess Memorial in Ottumwa, and also Mercy Hospital in Sioux City and down into Council Bluffs and Omaha. Everyone stepped up to the task. I think they can be very proud of the way that they reacted to a tragedy, Mr. Speaker.     
   And it is a tragedy that will be remembered in Boy Scout lore for all time. If there is a silver lining behind this cloud, the silver lining is that the training that they had, the deja vu experience that was visited upon them last week was one that had a maximum amount of training available. And one of the Scouts said, I think, the most heroic thing when he said, if this had to happen anywhere, it was a good thing that it happened here where we were trained to deal with it. That's a courageous statement, Mr. Speaker. And I can't attribute that because I don't actually know the name of the Scout, but all the Scouts out there, I think, expressed the same sentiment. And I'm proud of the work that they have done. I congratulate them. My heart, thoughts and prayers goes out to them, to their families as they grieve for the lost ones. And as they put this back together, all of us will join together in that part of this recovery from the disaster, as bad as it is. I'll certainly be supportive of constructing a memorial on the location where we lost the four Scouts. 
   Fortunately, the ranger and his family all came out of it in at least reasonably good health and are in the recovery mode today. 
   But I look across the State, Mr. Speaker, and it's a tough battle all the way across Iowa. And we've had more loss of life due to weather and natural disasters than ever in my memory. I believe that number now, through the course of this, comes to 20 lives that have been lost in the culmination of the tornados, the one especially that hit Parkersburg, the one that hit in Monona County that took the lives of the four Boy Scouts. 
   If you add to a number of other disasters, weather-related, that have come  across the State, and look at the State of Iowa in your mind's eye, Mr. Speaker, we're fortunate in western Iowa that we're not in worse condition than we are. The Missouri River and its tributaries, by the nature of their grade, come up fast when it rains and they go down fast. We've had some severe flooding in western Iowa, but it doesn't sustain itself over the days and weeks in the same fashion that it does in eastern Iowa. 
   Des Moines, central Iowa, downstream from the Saylorville Reservoir and downstream from the Raccoon River, they've had some record flooding in that area; not as bad as it was in 1993, in some locations actually worse. But for the breadth of it, not as bad it was in 1993, which was a 500-year flood event. 
   But over as far as one goes east in Iowa, and especially in Congressman Loebsack's district, Cedar Rapids and in the Waterloo, Cedar Falls and Iowa City area, the Cedar River especially, but for the Iowa River, the all-time high was set, I'm not certain of the year, but in this flood, this new 500-year event that came back to visit us 15 years after the last 500-year event, Mr. Speaker, set an all-time high there near Iowa City or near the Iowa River that was 3 1/2 feet higher in its crest of the water flow elevation than ever before. 3 1/2 feet higher, Mr. Speaker. And that eclipsed a 500-year event in order to do that. 
   But in Cedar Rapids it was more difficult. It was 11 1/2 feet above the previous high water mark. 11 1/2 feet, Mr. Speaker. That is a huge, huge amount, a wall of water that has inundated the Cedar Rapids area. 
   And I will say that we've been through some floods before. And we're watching as this crest has moved its way down the Mississippi River. And the Mississippi River is pushing at some all-time highs, and marginally has eclipsed those all-time highs. 
   But what we've learned, in 1993 we rebuilt some levees. We built some up. We tried to prepare ourselves, mitigation for future floods, and it wasn't enough, especially in the Cedar Rapids area. It wasn't enough in the Iowa City area. It wasn't enough in some of the smaller town areas and some of the other tributaries, as well as the Cedar River and the Iowa River. 
   But I want to compliment the Iowans in the eastern part of the State as well, because they did everything they could to get ready. And during this crest and the aftermath, I have every confidence that they have done and will do everything necessary to clean up from it and to bring the resources that are available to them to bear, to pump the water out, to let gravity feed it down, to clean up the muck and the silt, and to go into the buildings and take out the drywall, and haul out the appliances that have been flooded out and redo the flooring, redo the walls, rebuild. 
   In some places houses are entirely gone, washed away, Mr. Speaker, washed away and crushed into bridges where they were trapped until they could be pushed further downstream. Some people's homes just simply washed away. 
   We've seen this kind of tragedy across the country time and again, and I alluded earlier to my experience at Katrina. And this experience in Katrina, compared to Iowa City, Cedar Rapids, all of Iowa, tells me that the vast areas of New Orleans, some of those that are not rebuilt yet may not be rebuilt, even after we're finished rebuilding in Iowa. 
   But I call upon Iowans, and I have every expectation and all confidence that they'll step forward and get this work done, and they'll do it with volunteer forces. They'll do it with contract forces, and we will do it together by using the resources that are available to us in the most responsible fashion. 
   And we do need help, Mr. Speaker. I don't know how much this flood has cost. I know that we appropriated tens of billions of dollars to New Orleans and Katrina, and I have been one of the critics of how that money was spent in some cases, in fact, some will say in many cases, and they may well be right. 
   I pledge, Mr. Speaker, that I'll also be looking to Iowa and asking and making sure that the utilization of the resources that are available to Iowans to recover from this disaster are used with every bit of the frugality and responsibility, as if every dime was our own money reinvested into the future. And I will spend my time overseeing this. 
   I will defend the interests of the taxpayer, and I will protect the needs of Iowans to have a chance to recover from this. 
   The cost of these disasters are far greater than we can withstand within the State itself. To give an example, we're looking at an initial component of this of perhaps $2 billion. It will go beyond that, we think. And there's not much to quantify it. This is a guess number, Mr. Speaker. 
   But to put it in perspective, the Iowa budget's around $6 billion. It was 5 when I was in the Iowa Senate. It's probably above $6 billion now. And so it gives you a sense that this disaster is significantly greater than at least a third of the Iowa budget, at least a third of Iowa's budget, and perhaps well more than half of it, maybe even more than a year or two of the Iowa budget. We will have to see. 
   But I'm going to ask that Iowans use these resources that we provide here in Congress in the most responsible fashion, and step up and do what they do. 
   We don't have a problem with looters. We only have a problem with how we organize all the volunteers that show up. That's the right kind of problem to have. That's the proudest kind of problem to have. 
   And I'm looking forward to an opportunity to roll up my sleeves and get into the middle of this, because when you get into a situation like this, Mr. Speaker, the thing that makes me feel the best is if I can just do something, if I can put my hands on some work and just get in there and do something to help everyone else. That's what I think is the sentiment from the Iowa congressional delegation. 
   We stood here on the floor tonight, and Congressman Boswell asked for a moment of silence from this Congress. I appreciate the leadership on that, and I appreciate that we're all here together in it. We will stand together. 
   And so I thank all the support that's here, Mr. Speaker, and we will be doing our share of this work confidently. We appreciate all the thoughts and prayers and the efforts and the support that have come, that will be there. 
   And now, Mr. Speaker, I must transition into this issue that is a big and broad and lasting issue for the United States of America, and that's the issue that's been discussed by the previous speakers in the 30 Something group. I will give them credit. They come to this floor regularly, consistently, and have done so for years, and they've made arguments that I've consistently and regularly disagreed with for years, Mr. Speaker. 
   I first take issue with the gentleman from Ohio's statement that drilling for oil is a dead end. 
   Now, only here on the special orders, in the rather silent nights after the general session of Congress has wrapped up, can you get by with a statement that drilling for oil is a dead end. How can that be a dead end? 
   We drilled for oil all over the Middle East. The Hunt Brothers went to Libya and developed the oil fields there. They were nationalized by Qadaffi when he took power in Libya, however many decades ago that's been. It's been a while. Drilling for oil in the Middle East wasn't a dead end. 
   Drilling for oil in Venezuela hasn't been a dead end. Hugo Chavez is getting rich off the oil they've drilled for in Venezuela. 
   Drilling for oil in Russia hasn't been a dead end. They're exporting oil into Europe and other parts of the world, and their cash flow is looking pretty good right now. 
   Drilling for oil in Canada hasn't been a dead end. They've discovered a massive amount of oil supply in Northern Alberta called the tar sands or the oil sands, depending on how you want to label that, Mr. Speaker. 
   The Canadians are happy that they've drilled for oil, and they will be soon exporting tar sands oil down to the United States. 
   And Union County in South Dakota, the Elk Point region just across the river from Sioux City, Iowa, passed a resolution here within the Primary Day, the first Tuesday after the first Monday in June, that endorsed the idea of building a new oil refinery, first one since 1975 in the United States. Who would have thought that it would be, Mr. Speaker, in South Dakota?  
   But in South Dakota it's most likely to be. The highest hurdle has been reached. There may well be other regulations that have to be circumvented or resolved. But in the end, it's most likely now there will be a new refinery at Elk Point, South Dakota; a new refinery with billions of dollars invested in it that will have a pipeline coming down from Northern Alberta with the tar sands oil in it, oil sands oil. They will be refining that crude oil into gas, diesel fuel, engine oil and all the other products that come out of that refinery, setting up pipelines and distributing that oil across the country. 
   Drilling for oil wasn't a dead end and is not a dead end in Canada. And, in fact, if you'd asked the people in States like Texas, Oklahoma, California, Long Beach area, for example, Pennsylvania, drilling for oil was not a dead end in Pennsylvania whatever year that was when it was discovered some time I think previous to the first half of the 19th century. 
   And drilling for oil in the north slope, Mr. Speaker, was not a dead end. We went up there in 1970 to drill for oil and build a pipeline from the north slope of Alaska down to the Port Valdez. The right-of-way was 600 miles from Fairbanks north. And the environmentalists went in with a court injunction and blocked the development of the oil fields and the pipeline on the north slope of Alaska. That happened in 1970. But, in 1972, they had made their way through the quagmire of the environmentalist lawsuits, resolved all of that, opened up the oil fields in the north slope of Alaska and the pipeline, built the pipeline and opened the oil fields. And by 1975, we're pumping oil down to the Port Valdez. 
   Now, today, we're hearing: It's a dead end to drill for oil in ANWR, a dead end to drill for oil in the Outer Continental Shelf, a dead end to drill for oil on the non-national park public lands of the United States of America. Drilling for oil, Mr. Speaker, is a dead end. 
   Where are you going to get your gas from? I didn't hear you advocate that you want to come to Iowa and buy up all the ethanol that we're producing, so I don't know what you're going to put in your gas tanks, gentlemen. Your cars have to run on something unless, of course, it's your proposal that you're going to park them. And I can understand why you'd want to do that if you represent an inner city urban area that has access to publicly funded and subsidized mass transit. 
   In fact, when I look at the 18.4 cents a gallon that is a Federal gas tax that each of us pay when we fill up our tanks, we stick the nozzle in and we squeeze the handle, and when a gallon runs out we know we're paying 18.4 cents in Federal tax money on gas. 
   And a lot of us spend 20 or more cents to the State as well for our gas tax. We're willing to do that because it's a user fee, Mr. Speaker, and we're willing to do that because the consumers believe that 100 percent of that money goes to build and maintain our roads. Users fees, drive on a road, you wear it out. You need a new road, you've got to build a new one. You need to rebuild the roads that you're driving on because the surfaces wear down and the grade undermines, and you need to reshoulder and you need to reshape and you need to upgrade. 18.4 Federal cents per gallon goes to that. 20-some State cents in many States go to do that. 
   But the consumers aren't thinking that 17 percent of that Federal tax dollar goes to subsidize the mass transit of the constituents of the people that come down here on this floor and say: Drilling for oil is a dead end. We don't need any more gas in this marketplace, at least we don't need any more American-produced gas in this marketplace. No, uh-uh. Somehow there is a solution by demagoguing the oil companies. 
   Well, did they think, Mr. Speaker, that if 15 percent of the gas that's consumed in the United States, the gas that's delivered in the world--put it that way--comes from private companies like Exxon, Chevron, Texaco, and the balance of that comes from nations that own the oil industry, nationalized oil industry, and so what point is it in not demonizing the countries that are part of the OPEC, the oil cartel, but demonizing the private companies that are putting more and more product on the marketplace, helping to keep the price of gas down? 
   What sense does it make, Mr. Speaker, for the Speaker of the House and other leadership and committee Chairs to argue that we should bring windfall profits taxes against the oil-producing companies when their return on investment is less than 10 percent, down towards 8 percent? 
   Why is it, if Exxon is returning 8 percent on their capital investment, why would we want to say to them, that of all of the trillions or, excuse me, all of the billions of dollars that you have invested, you ought not be able to make 10 billion a quarter? With your capital investment being what it is, what is an inappropriate return on investment?     
   Would you want to bring all of the companies down here? How about just the Fortune 500 companies that got a greater return on the investment, Mr. Speaker, than Exxon in particular. Chevron is another. Why don't we bring a bill under that same logic, the logic of the Speaker from San Francisco, that we should put a windfall profit tax on any Fortune 500 company that makes more than 8 percent return on their investment of their capital. Now, that would be a consistent logic. It would be illogical, but it would be consistent with the logic of the Speaker. 
   It's not the case. These oil companies are helping us keep our prices down. I don't know if they're gouging or not. But if you think they are, get in the business and produce some energy. 
   But let's point our finger over at the countries that have nationalized the oil. Khadafi in Libya has nationalized the oil on the Hunt brothers. They're setting prices. They're together. They're a cartel. And by the way, you cannot legislate against that. You have got to find competition that competes directly against it. 
   Mr. Speaker, I don't know where to go in the world with the global demand on energy the way it is that we can line up with a country or two or five or ten and say, Why don't you just sell all of your oil to the United States? This is a global market. This is a global marketplace that has driven the oil price up to $139 a barrel and the price of gas up to $4.08 a gallon, average regular retail in America, $4.08. 
   Mr. Speaker, I made the statement some time back a year or more ago, So what is the solution for $3 gas? And my answer was, Well, $3 gas. Surely if gas is $3, the people that are blocking the development of energy here in the United States are going to get out of the way and join with those of us that believe that energy should be cheaper, not higher. 
   But what do they do? Mr. Speaker, they come to the floor and they make statements like, Drilling for oil is a dead-end. Now who in America would buy a line like that? ``Drilling for oil is a dead-end.'' Drilling for oil has produced all of the gas that we're burning in America. It's produced all of the gas that's being burned globally. It's produced all of the diesel fuel that's being burned in the United States and globally, and it's producing all the hydraulic oil and all of the other hydrocarbons that are out there into the marketplace. 
   Drilling for oil is not a dead-end. Drilling for oil is what launched the industrial revolution, lifted us into this modern era, and allows us to travel globally and do business and see the world. It's an entirely different place than it was when we were sitting on the back of a horse or walking behind the tail of one, Mr. Speaker. 
   And by the way, the Earth was a very dirty place back then. Let's just say 108 years ago at the turn of the previous century back when it was horses doing this instead of the internal combustion engine, you know, things fall out from underneath the tail of a horse and they pollute the street. And they walked in the mud, and the garbage got dumped out of the windows, and we didn't know a lot about medicine or water quality or air quality. We burned a lot of coal, and we burned a lot of wood, and the air wasn't very clean, and the water wasn't very clean. And we didn't have very much for sewers, if they existed at all. We didn't have a lot for modern health care. 
   We lived in the squalor of animals and people walking through their own waste and refuse. And somehow, they thought the Earth was in the balance back in those days, Mr. Speaker. And I will submit that the Earth is much closer to being in the balance today. The technology has moved us forward,  the internal combustion engine and the development of oil supplies globally and cheap oil and cheap gas and diesel fuel globally has lifted us out of that mucky quagmire of animal and human waste stirred up in the streets of America and around the world, put us up on paving and moves us across the highway at 75 miles an hour in some of the States on the interstate and allows us to get in a jet plane, and the Speaker herself to fly from Washington nonstop all the way over to her digs over there in San Francisco any weekend she chooses, every weekend she chooses because what? Because companies like Exxon, Chevron, American companies went out there and drilled for oil and explored for it in the United States, offshore in the United States, offshore around the world, places in deep water. They developed technology, and they brought this oil to the market. 
   And if we say to them a deal is not a deal, we want to go after your profits because we think the number's big, even though it's a smaller percentage of the return on the investment, if I'm on that board of directors, I have to think maybe we should not be investing the capital of our stockholders and more and more energy and more and more oil because the Congress will take our profits away from us. A deal is not a deal with this leadership, Mr. Speaker. And I would expect oil companies, if this persists, to invest some of their capital some place out of the reach of the deal changers, those that don't keep their word that are leading some of the issues here in this Congress. 
   I also would take us to an issue that has popped up in the news in the last today and in previous days about an effort on the part of some of the Democrat Members of Congress that believe that we should nationalize the oil industry in the United States of America. 
   I mentioned earlier that Khadafi nationalized the oil industry in Libya. He took over the oil fields that were delivered by the Hunt brothers and others. He took over the facilities they had developed and confiscated their capital. And that is also what happened in Venezuela when Hugo Chavez took over. 
   Well, there's some fellow travelers here in the United States. Congress, Mr. Speaker, fellow travelers with the people that have nationalized the privately owned oil industries developed within their countries, fellow travelers that agree and believe in that. And not necessarily submitting who the traveler is, I will just say this: That gentlelady from California, Ms. Waters, advocated that we should nationalize our oil industry. 
   Now, she is not a lightweight in this Congress, Mr. Speaker. I know her well. I have served on the Judiciary Committee with her for 5 1/2 years. Here is what she said. She said this at a subcommittee hearing with the oil industry present, and to them she said, This liberal will be all about socializing, would be about basically taking over and the government running all of your companies. 
   Mr. Speaker, an allegation and announcement of a position to nationalize the oil companies in the United States. Take them over by the United States government? That is not just socializing them, as Ms. Waters said, that is--that's Communism, that's Marxism, that's confiscation of real property in the United States of America that's protected by the United States Constitution. 
   And, not to be outdone, Mr. Hinchey made the statement in a similar period of time that he would be for nationalizing the refineries in the United States. 
   Now, I would like to think that we're a long, long ways from being so desperate that we can't drill for oil 
   as Mr. Ryan says. He says it's a dead-end. Drilling for oil is a dead-end, Mr. Ryan. But if there's any oil coming out of those wells--and I would yield to anybody that wanted to challenge my statement--if there's any oil coming out of those wells, then this Congress, according to Ms. Waters and Mr. Hinchey and who knows how many others, would want to nationalize those oil wells, those oil fields, that real property that's held by the shareholders, the retirement funds, the pension funds of the workers and the union people in the United States, nationalize that, and the government's going to run it? How good? As good as we run Social Security? As good as we run health care? As good as we run the welfare program here in the United States? Confiscate real property? Kick aside the Constitution? 
   Maybe if you're not enthusiastic enough about that as a Member of the other side of the aisle, you might want to go with Mr. Hinchey and let the oil companies own their oil wells but nationalize the refineries. 
   Mr. Speaker, that is a chilling message that does affect our markets and does not make energy cheaper. It makes it more expensive. Nationalize our oil industry, Ms. Waters, Mr. Hinchey, and who knows how many others. 
   The statements made by my predecessors here in the special orders about drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf towards Cuba. I listened to those statements as they were made, and I actually wrote down, What is your point. What is your point in bringing up the issue as to whether the Chinese are or aren't drilling offshore and does anybody have any information about whether there is an agreement? 
   We know that the Chinese have their industry and their technology in China. I, Mr. Speaker, have seen it. I have seen the capital investment. I have seen the development. I do not know if there is a signed agreement, a handshake with Castro, or if there is activity down there. I haven't gone down there to look. I haven't flown over the area. In fact, I would be a little bit concerned about doing so because it might well bring out some opposition. 
   But my question is, What is your point? Are they, Mr. Ryan, Mr. Altmire, the balance of you that have been standing here on the floor making these statements about drilling for oil is a dead-end, I guess then I can take it that you make your criticism about maybe China's not drilling offshore in Cuba. Maybe they are. I don't think we know. But are you for or are you against drilling the Outer Continental Shelf? Whether or not the Chinese are drilling there may not be material. But I believe that we ought to be there. 
   We ought to go halfway to Cuba, and we ought to punch in a wall of wells all the way along there, if there's any oil there, we ought to punch those wells in. We ought to get the oil. We ought to take the natural gas. And we ought to drill our way back coming back towards Florida. 
   And it makes no sense to set aside the Outer Continental Shelf towards any of these States and even say to the states, Well, it's your resource. Let us know if you want to drill there and maybe Congress will react towards that or the President will and someone will come and punch a hole in there and bring some gas or oil up below the ocean's floor. 
   When Ronald Reagan claimed 200 miles out in the Outer Continental Shelf, he claimed that for the United States of America, Mr. Speaker. He didn't claim it for Florida or California or Louisiana or Virginia or New York or Massachusetts or Maine. He claimed it for the United States of America. Three miles offshore? That's State ground. That's fine. I will concede that point. But from 190 from--3 miles to 200 miles, 197 miles, that's all resources of the American people. 
   We have to defend those shores with our military. We have to guard our ports. We're doing that federally. The States do not have a claim to the resources offshore. And if they object outside of three miles, I'm wondering what their objection will be. But I bet it will not be to seeing $2 gas again. I bet it won't be to maybe seeing $1.70 gas again or maybe even less. 
   So maybe, Mr. Speaker, there are a lot of solutions. There are a lot of solutions that are there. I agree that this should not be--I agree with Mr. Altmire this should not be a game of ``gotcha,'' but I fear it is a game of ``gotcha'' because I sit here and listen to this, and for the 5 1/2 years that I have been here, it's been a constant mantra of running against George Bush. 
   I just left the President where he's giving a speech uptown, Mr. Speaker, and he will be retired January 20 of this upcoming year. I stand with the President on these energy issues. I stand with the President on the Middle Eastern issues. And at some point, the 30-Something group, the Democrats, the liberals, the progressives, the socialists, the Marxists, and the Communists are all going to have to figure out that George Bush is not running  for reelection. He actually said tonight that he will be retiring and going back to Crawford, Texas. Maybe watching the Rangers on TV. And I salute him for his service to America. 
   But you're going to have to find a different person to demonize, 30-Something group, and you are going to run against the new agenda that's coming. 
   And you're standing here on this floor tonight defending an untenable position, an untenable position that says drilling for oil is a dead-end. How can that be? Drilling for oil has opened up our economy, our industry, and has opened up the world to a modern era. 
   So, Mr. Speaker, I bring some things to the floor here that are quite interesting, I think. And this being the first demonstrable chart, take you back to 2001, January. President Bush was sworn in to office. Gas was $1.49, Mr. Speaker. And as you can see the increase in gas prices throughout this period of time from 2001, the 6 years until 2007. Now, this was not adjusted for inflation, I would add. This is just dollars. So if you adjust this for inflation, this curve is going to look flatter than it is. 
   But if you see, this is a very flat curve, adjusted for inflation flatter yet. On the day that the gavel was passed in this 110th Congress to Nancy Pelosi, gas had gone from, by then, from $1.49 in the Bush administration to $2.33.     
   That was about when Speaker Pelosi said she's going to do something about gas prices, and I think she meant it actually because every bill that came to the floor of this Congress made energy more scarce, and you have to believe the law of supply and demand. 
   And so as each bill that came to the floor of Congress made the regulations more stiff, made it more difficult to go out and explore for more oil, discouraged the investors from research and development and oil exploration, piece by piece by piece, plus the threats, of course, and the tax increases that are flowing along the way and Chairman Rangel's position that he never met a tax cut that he didn't want to kill--and to extend any of the Bush tax cuts, which were the salvation of our economy beginning May 28, 2003, was abhorrent to Mr. Rangel. He didn't quite say so in his first interview or his second or his third, but after the reporters put together his answers and non-answers, throughout out a whole series of interviews across the media circle, the investors in America came to the conclusion that there would be no tax cut preserved at the end of the Rangel tenure. 
   And when that happened, you can see that conclusion. If you look at industrial investment, you can see that that investment tailed off sometime about mid-February right over here shortly after Nancy Pelosi took the gavel behind me, Mr. Speaker. That industrial investment tailed off because the cost of capital went up. The cost of capital went up because the investors could see that there were going to be tax increases that were triggered in and kicked in along the way. 
   That has initiated a decline in this economy that's been significant. The decline in the economy, it started with less industrial investment, was followed by the sub-prime loan problem, was followed by the lack of consumer confidence, and by the way, coupled with a weaker dollar, a weaker dollar that has driven up also the cost of this energy. But here we are, gas is $2.33 when Nancy Pelosi took the gavel, right where you're sitting, Mr. Speaker, and today average retail regular gas prices in America, $4.08. 
   This short little period of time from 2007 until 2008, let's just say 17 months, maybe 18 months, gas has gone from $2.33 to $4.08. What do we get? What do we get but promises, and we get rhetoric on the floor that says drilling for oil is a dead-end. Well, I don't think it's a dead-end, and I don't think it's the whole solution, but I think we should drill ANWR. I believe we ought to drill the Outer Continental Shelf. I believe we should drill the non-national park public lands in America, and we ought to open up every logical place we can and put more energy on the marketplace. 
   There's no reason to save it underneath the crust of this earth when you are paying this kind of price, because we're transferring our wealth to the Middle East. We're transferring our wealth to companies that are not our friends. We transfer that wealth. They turn it into military power, they turn it into economic power, they turn it into political power, and they buy people off to become our enemies. They buy countries off to become our enemies. Our geopolitical influence is diminishing as our treasure is exported to foreign countries. That's just the oil I'm speaking of, Mr. Speaker. 
   We also have a deficit of trade that runs about a minus $717 billion a year right now. That deficit has flattened out a little bit, but it still has a transfer of our treasure to other countries where we owe them debt, and this cannot go on in perpetuity. But the Pelosi energy plan is, well, let's take the $2.33 gas--she promised she was going to take the prices down--let's get it up to $4.08 and then send somebody to the floor like Mr. Ryan who says drilling for oil is a dead-end. 
   Nancy Pelosi, ask your constituents to believe that. Mine are not going to be so easily persuaded. 
   Now, drilling in ANWR, what does it look like? Here's a map, Mr. Speaker, of the United States of America. A lot of us have seen this map because it shows how big Alaska actually is. And I say this to needle my Texas friends. If we split Alaska in half, Texas would be the third largest State. Well, you can see by this map that comes close at least, if not true. 
   This little area up here in the northeast corner of Alaska, that's ANWR, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. And if you look a little further up here, this is the region that's in yellow that is the coastal plain that's in question. 
   Over here along this area about in there is Dead Horse. That's mile post zero of the Alaska pipeline. It's up there very near the Arctic Ocean. The Arctic Ocean runs right along here, Mr. Speaker, and the Dead Horse access, mile post zero, and then the pipeline runs across Alaska like this. I think it's here, maybe here. There, the oil goes onto tankers and is floated on down and around to refineries on the west coast of California and points beyond. 
   To deal with an issue that I continually am asked about, and it's been alleged on this floor that the allegation that this oil from the north slope of Alaska is shipped to Japan. Not true. It was true back in about 1985 for a short period of time because the economics worked out better that way, Mr. Speaker. Hasn't been true since then. Hasn't been true for at least 23 years. 
   This oil that comes out of the north slope of Alaska, pipeline down here and tankered on down, goes to the United States of America. In any case, that's what would happen with this oil that would be developed here on the north slope of Alaska. 
   Now, if you've seen an advertisement that says that we shouldn't drill in ANWR because it is a pristine, alpine forest, or they're showing you a picture of fine, evergreen trees and tell you let's not disturb the native area up there because it's pristine wilderness, I will submit, Mr. Speaker, that this area in question, the north slope and east of the north slope, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, is right on the Arctic Ocean. 
   I take us all back to something we all should have learned in eighth grade; that is, the Arctic Circle, which runs around here somewhere in Alaska, the Arctic Circle is the line, by definition, north of which trees can't grow. So why would we buy a negative commercial that tells us that we shouldn't be drilling in a pristine alpine forest? We can't go back to our eighth grade training and understand that this is an arctic coastal plain. 
   On its warmest days, with 24 hours of sunlight, it melts down towards the permafrost a foot to 18 inches. It has some tundra there. Tundra, by the way, can be reconstituted. We aren't going to tear it up. We would do this all on ice roads over the top. The ice melts and everything goes back to the natural way. But if a machine falls off of an ice road into the muck a foot to 18 inches down to the permafrost, gets pulled back out, can smooth that all over, the seed is there. In 5 to 6 years, the tundra is grown back. I've seen it, Mr. Speaker. It's not a belief that's not founded. It is one that I have observed. 
   I've also heard the testimony of the Native Americans that live up there that want to drill. Drill ANWR. Drill ANWR. Get the oil in the pipeline,  bring it down here, and bring it around to the refineries. This is not a pristine wilderness that can't be replaced, but 
   it's not one that's going to be disturbed either. 
   This is a coastal, frozen tundra about 9 months out of the year or more that has a regular topography that's flat. It's got a few little potholes and sink holes in it. A little bit of green grass grows out of that tundra in the summertime. This works get done when it's all frozen. 
   There isn't even a native caribou herd there, Mr. Speaker. There is in the north slope. By the way, that herd was 7,000 in 1970, and it's over 28,000 head today because we did this work up in this area in an environmentally friendly fashion. And if it had not been done in an environmentally friendly fashion, if there had been a desecration of the environment, if there had been a significant spill, if there had been disrespect towards wildlife or loss of wildlife, I have every confidence that the people on this side of the aisle would have been here with their posters and their pictures, and they would have embellished it to no end because I don't believe that you believe that we should lower energy prices. 
   You've finally convinced me after 18 months, a year-and-a-half of this 110th Pelosi Congress, that you want to see energy prices go up, not down, but you believe that if you can drive gas prices up from $2.33 a gallon to $4.08 a gallon to $5 a gallon to $6 a gallon, maybe all the way up to where it is in Europe today at $10 a gallon, the poor people will have to stop burning gas first. But a lot of people will stop burning gas or at least burn less of it, and they will get on their bicycles or walk or they will get on the mass transit that's subsidized by the people that are buying the gas, and there will be less combustion in the internal combustion engine, and there will be less emissions out the exhaust pipe. And less emissions out the exhaust pipe in your myopic mind saves the earth, saves the planet from what you believe is an impending global warming holocaust. 
   That's your motive. You would shut down, slow down dramatically, and ultimately shut down the economy of the United States of America, the very well-being of our people. The wealth that's created and regenerated here, that provides all of our creature comforts and our technology and our medicine and our creativity and our art and our sciences, that would all be diminished, all be shut down. You'd hand that all over to the Chinese and to India and to other developing nations and let them develop the industry. We would sit here and curl up among ourselves and spend our $5, $6, $7, $8, $9, $10 for gas, ride our bicycles and sit around and say, isn't it wonderful now. Drilling for oil was a dead-end, but we didn't drill. We didn't go into ANWR. We've got an awful lot of oil up there, enough oil up there to produce at least a million barrels a day for a good, long time. We save that all back and handed our economy over to who? Handed it over to the Chinese, handed it over to India, handed it over to developing nations. 
   Mr. Speaker, a logical thinking nation cannot come to that conclusion, and I am quite concerned that we're not here building together a comprehensive energy plan and driving it with the leadership of the people who have been elected for our judgment and who have access to more information than anybody in the country collectively. We're not putting a plan together. We're reacting. We're scooting ahead of the hottest criticism there is, trying to hang on to some congressional seats but still move us off to the left and hand this country over to the people that believe in green, the people that are extreme environmentalists. 
   I'll point out, also, Mr. Speaker, I've spent my life in soil conservation. I've built more miles of terrace than anybody in the United States Congress. I've done more waterways. I've protected more soil than anybody in Congress, and I've also planted an awful lot of trees and many of which I'll never get to sit in the shade of. I believe in soil conservation, water conservation, and quality. It's my life. I've demonstrated it. I believe in protecting this environment. 
   But I do not believe in disarming our economy. I do not believe that this equation that's being pushed forward here on global warming is one that will sustain it. I'm particularly suspicious when one of the scientists that back in 1970 signed on and was a leading advocate that there was going to be an ice age that was just around the corner, an impending ice age, at least one of those scientists that was a leading thinker, giving us the scare about a glacier coming down to wipe out our corn fields is now on the global warming side. 
   I think history will only tell, and we can't affect this climate enough to make it worthwhile for us to unilaterally disarm our economy when the Chinese and the Indians are building more and more generating plants, burning more coal, polluting more air. We can't put a dent in it, Mr. Speaker. But some of the things that we can do, we can look at this problem, what we have, from a more comprehensive perspective. 
   This, Mr. Speaker, is our energy production chart of the United States of America. Now, we need to be talking about all of the sources of energy that we have. And if you look around the chart, you can see that this is gasoline here in this robin egg blue color; diesel fuel, here; kerosene and jet fuel down here in the white; other petroleum products which might be asphalt and heavy oils and engine oil, those kind of things right here; and then natural gas, a lot of natural gas in yellow. Coal, Mr. Shimkus loves that coal, and I support him and clean burning coal. Let's put that on the market. We've got a lot of it. 
   Here's our nuclear. 11.66 percent of the energy. This is all the energy consumed in the United States. Actually, all the energy produced in the United States. 11.66 of it's nuclear. Even though we haven't built a nuclear plant since 1975, still, of all the energy, 11.66 percent of it is nuclear. 
   Here's our hydroelectric. We haven't done much of that either, 3.41 percent for water going down the rivers. We're using that to spin generators. And I think that's a green energy. It's renewable energy. It doesn't get categorized as such. 
   Here's your geothermal, a little bit; wind, a little bit, half a percent. Here's solar, tenth of a percent. Here's ethanol, three-quarters of a percent, and we're producing a lot of it, 9 billion gallons of it last year, but it's three-quarters of 1 percent of all the energy that is produced in America.     
   Biodiesel; one one-hundredth of a percent. Biomass; some of that's wood burn, 4 percent. 
   So you see, Mr. Speaker, here is a chart of the energy that we're producing in America. And now, the number down here, 72.1 quadrillion Btus. Just remember the 72.1 because that's really what's operative, Mr. Speaker. And now, that's what we produce. 
   Here's what we consume. This chart, Mr. Speaker, is the Energy Consumption chart for the United States for 2007. You see roughly similar proportions of the energy sources that we have. You'll see that motor gasoline is a larger percentage of the overall energy consumption chart; 17.44 percent of the gas consumed; and down on this chart, it's 8.29 percent of our production. So we're importing a lot more gas than we're burning. If you go to the diesel fuel, that number is 8.84 percent of the energy consumed as diesel fuel, we're producing only 4 percent overall. 
   So if you look at this chart, you will see that the diameter of this chart represents the amount of Btus that we are consuming in America. That's 101.4 quadrillion Btus. Just remember, we're producing 72.1 quadrillion Btus, we're consuming 101.4 quadrillion Btus. So just round that off into we're producing 72 percent of the energy that we're consuming. 
   And now here's another little chart that shows you, Mr. Speaker. And this is the Energy Production chart set on top of the Energy Consumption chart. So you can kind of wind this up and see our natural gas, the size of the natural gas production on the smaller circle versus the natural gas consumption on the larger circle. We can turn this over to nuclear and see what percentage of our production is nuclear versus the percent of our consumption that's nuclear. Turn this around and you can kind of see. 
   But the main thing that this illustrates is the smaller circle is proportional, Mr. Speaker, to the amount of energy we're producing. The larger circle is proportional to the energy we're  consuming. And so I will submit that each of these pieces of the pie--I will just turn this over so the coal lines up for Mr. Shimkus--each of these pieces of the pie needs to grow out to the limits of the diameter of this circle so that together we're producing as much energy, or more, than we're consuming. And then we can engage in this and change the size of these pieces so that we can prioritize the use of our energy. 
   And I would submit that this natural gas product that's here, the yellow, let's produce a lot more of it. Let's use less to generate electricity; let's use more to produce fertilizer and use it in industry where we produce plastics, et cetera. 
   But this is where the picture is for the solution. We need more coal, more natural gas. We need more other petroleum products. We need more diesel fuel, more motor gasoline, more biomass, solar, ethanol, biodiesel, wind, geothermal, et cetera. 
   Mr. Speaker, might I request how much time I have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (TRAGEDY IN IOWA -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. That's just enough time to demonstrate what corn is. 
   Mr. Speaker, this may be a first on the floor of the United States Congress. In this Ziploc bag is corn. Now, there's a little bit of a misconception out there. There's an argument that we shouldn't turn this into ethanol because people will say, well, that's food. Well, I have chewed on this corn, but we grind it up and feed it to livestock. This isn't human food as we know it. We do convert some of it to syrups and 299 other products, value add. But what happens is we'll bring a bushel of this corn into an ethanol plant, we'll run it through that plant. A third of the volume that you see here will be converted into ethanol. About the same amount of it is wasted when you feed it to livestock anyway, it just isn't usable, so that turns into CO  
   2. And that's a waste product right now with ethanol.
   The other third of it turns into this; this is a fine product called dried distiller's grain. This is actually high-protein, dried distiller's grain, Mr. Speaker. This gets fed back to livestock. So I'll come down at another time and I'll demonstrate what you do with a bushel of corn. It produces three gallons of ethanol. Half of the feed value in that, at least, goes back to the livestock in the form of dried distiller's grain that I have in this hand. And this food-versus-fuel argument does not hold up right now; it may for the '08 crop, it doesn't for '07. 
   We've produced more corn than ever before in 2007; that was 13.1 billion bushels. We exported more corn than ever before; that was 2.5 billion bushels. We converted more corn into ethanol than ever before; that was 3.2 billion bushels. And 1.6 billion of that went back to livestock in the form of feed, so you add that back in. And the amount of corn that was available for domestic consumption was 9.0 billion bushels of corn from the 2007 crop. That's more than ever before, Mr. Speaker. And the average amount of corn available for domestic consumption for the other years in the decade was 7.4 billion bushels. 
   So there was 1.6 billion more bushels available for domestic consumption, the prices somewhat higher than they ever were before; part of it is a weak dollar, part of it is global demand; part of it is we exported more meat than ever before. And our economy has been rolling and booming. 
   We have to figure out how to come to grips with this. Ethanol isn't the only answer, drilling is not the only answer, but $4.08 gas surely is not the answer, Mr. Speaker. And anybody that thinks that drilling for oil is a dead end I think has a dead idea. And the American people are going to stand up and say, Drill ANWR, drill the Outer Continental Shelf, drill the non-national park public lands. Let's have all the energy and all these categories that we have. Let's drive down these prices. Let's boom our economy. And let's get on with where we need to go as a country. 
   Mr. Speaker, I appreciate your attention this evening. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IMMIGRATION REFORM AND OTHER ISSUES OF THE WEEK -- (House of Representatives - May 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, as always, I profoundly appreciate the privilege to address you on the floor here of the United States House of Representatives. 
   We have had quite a momentous week here, and it gives one a sense who has been in the middle of this environment that there are times when this Congress can work urgently and times when our priorities finally rise to the top. And as I watched the committee action and have been involved in it across on this Hill for these last 4 1/2 years, but especially this last week, with the intensity we had at hearings and the intensity we had at markups, and transferring those markups here to the floor for consideration by the full body and debate and occasionally amendments offered, it has been an intense week, and it has been momentous. 
   Before I get into the meat of the discussion that I hope to take up this evening, Mr. Speaker, I have to reflect upon what has transpired here just today on the floor of the House of Representatives, and that is passing legislation that improves our lobbying reform and puts more sunlight on the donations that come from lobbying. And I believe that, yet all of us are bound by our own ethical standards, putting sunlight on those activities allows for the public to make that judgment as well as the individual Member of Congress. 
   I very much support that philosophy, and I am particularly pleased that the motion to recommit spread that responsibility not just across private sector lobbyists, but also the public sector lobbyists as well. That is something that I believe should have been part of the bill, Mr. Speaker. It was something that I brought language to the Judiciary Committee to correct. 
   We had a significant and intense discussion on that in the Judiciary Committee, but yet the amendment wasn't quite ready for prime time, as they say. It has had a couple of technical flaws in it, so we withheld that amendment in the Judiciary Committee and brought it here as a motion to recommit tonight where it had significant support from Democrats and Republicans. So I am pleased that we have taken that step. 
   I am hopeful that we will be able to take up some other steps to provide more sunlight on this Congress. And particularly, the language that I offered in the lobby reform bill that passed the floor today and was eventually included in the bill was the requirement that the information be posted on the Internet in a searchable, sortable, downloadable format that would allow the bloggers across the country to be able to go on the Internet and see what is going on with campaign donations and those activities between the lobby and the Members of Congress. 
   Sunlight is the best disinfectant, and real-time reporting in searchable, sortable, downloadable format so that we are not putting people through the difficulty of having to reenter from a PDF or an Adobe file, or we are not putting them through the difficulty of trying to come up with some summarized information when easily it can go out there in a spreadsheet fashion and make it available in a format that says, we want you to know this; we want you to see this. In fact, we want that kind of oversight from the public, because this is the people's House, and the people are sovereign in America. And this legislation that passed the floor today helps with that. 
   But I would like to see that same level of scrutiny on the individual campaign contributions of our Members and in real-time reporting in searchable, sortable, downloadable format, Mr. Speaker. And if we can do that, if we can do our financial reportings so that they are to an exact dollar amount or within a narrow dollar figure within that dollar amount, and then file our own personal finances as well as our campaign contributions in real-time, searchable, sortable, downloadable format, hand it over to the American people with easy access on the Internet, and let them download, let them sort, let them draw their conclusions, let them write their op eds, let them fire up their base and run their Web pages, and let's let that dialogue be added to the mainstream media, the talk radio dialogue, the across-the-backyard-fence dialogue, all of the things that go together in this national conversation that we have that is an amalgamation of all of the opinions in America that helps shape and, in fact, does shape the consensus that America needs in order to move forward. 
   Then I would also, Mr. Speaker, suggest a fairly simple thing, and that is that when we are on the floor of this Chamber, and we are debating a bill and an amendment, the number and the name of the bill and the number and the name of the subject of the bill and the amendment are only available to a Member when they walk in here on the floor by going over there and asking staff or asking a clerk. That means then if Members of Congress can be watching this operation on C-SPAN, and walk from their Cannon or Rayburn or Longworth Office Building over here in about a 4 1/2 -minute span of time, and from the time of knowing what's going on by watching the television of the floor action and spending that 4 to 5 minutes to walk over here, the subject can change, the bill can change, the amendment can change. Two or three amendments can be passed by a voice vote in that period of time, and you will have no idea what kind of action is taking place on the floor when you walk in here without asking someone that is managing the bill or managing the opposition to the bill. 
   Yet I look up here, Mr. Speaker, into the gallery, and I see visitors on a daily basis, sometimes in significant numbers, and they can't know what is being debated here on the floor. They can't understand the debate or the actions that are here because we don't make it easily available to them. We don't want to make that a secret. We want people to know what is being debated here. In fact, that is one of the reasons why Members come here to the microphones is because they are able to speak, not just you, Mr. Speaker, but simultaneously to a national television audience. 
   Members want the public to know what we are doing, but the most obvious thing we could do we don't do, and the cheapest and simplest thing, and that would be just simply to project up here on the wall where we project our votes when we are voting the number and the title of the bill, and the number and the title and the author of the amendment. Post those things up there so that when the public comes in and  sits down, they can look and see precisely what the subject matter of the debate is. 
   That happens in a majority of the State legislatures of the United States, of the 50 States, and here we are stuck in time back in the 19th century or earlier, and we can't quite make that change, not because we don't agree with it, just because, well, it is a change, and change comes with difficulty here. So we don't have a crisis to cause us to step forward and make that change, and we are stuck with this reality that has gone on for a couple hundred years here. 
   So I would submit those changes. I hope we can move forward with those kind of changes, and I am looking forward to the opportunity to do that. 
   And then I take up the issue that just passed the floor of this House by a vote of 280-142. Mr. Speaker, that is finally the funding for our troops in the Middle East and Iraq and in Afghanistan. This is the emergency and urgent supplemental spending bill that the President asked for at the onset of this 110th Congress in January. This is something that we all knew needed to be done. Everyone here out of the 435 understood that you cannot put troops in harm's way and not fund those troops, and yet those who are opposed to the operations in Iraq, and I assume there are some there that are opposed to operations in Afghanistan as well, they wanted to tie conditions on the appropriations to the funding for our military, and so this debate began. And as this debate unfolded, by my count it is 108 days that this Congress has deliberated over a long Easter break while the Speaker went over to the Middle East and conferred with the Israelis and the Syrians, and a couple of other stops over there, those being the most significant. 
   That engagement in foreign policy is another subject perhaps for another day, Mr. Speaker. And I believe that we are all constrained by this Constitution. I don't believe any of us should be involved in negotiations with a foreign government, to engage in those acts that the Logan Act is specifically designed to prohibit. Yet, I think most of us are convinced that that is what happened. Negotiations were taking place over in the Middle East while our troops needed funding that needed to happen back here. 
   When General Petraeus came back here to brief Congress on the stage of the surge and the new plan and the new direction in Iraq, when he was here, he briefed a classified briefing to every Member of Congress; we were all invited. A reasonable turnout, Mr. Speaker, but the Speaker of the House was not there. The Speaker of the House couldn't work it into her schedule, at least by news accounts. She was able to go to the Middle East to negotiate over there in relations between Israel and Syria, the results of which I think both countries have some question about the message that was carried, but not when General Petraeus was here in the United States Capitol, in these office buildings around this Capitol. 
   We had the opportunity to hear from him, and he let us know that funding was urgent, that daily our military were making decisions that had to be done because the funding stream wasn't coming. So different weapons programs that were going on, the development of weapons programs, the procurement process, many of those things, including the training of the Iraqi military, had to all be slowed down, adjusted, in some cases stopped because the funds that were in the pipeline needed to be redirected so that our troops weren't in further danger. 
   But troop readiness is essential. And that is obvious from the conditions that were attached to the appropriations bill, by the majority side I will add, and those conditions that require troop readiness were being undermined and diminished by the reluctance and the delay in the appropriations that we just did today, finally, for our military, 108 days later. 
   I have mentioned Israel. And I can't help but reflect that Israel has found themselves, from the inception of their Nation in 1948, in one of the most violent regions in the world surrounded by enemies, enemies that have lined up against them and attacked them on a number of occasions. They have fought off their enemies courageously and valiantly. And you see the American spirit also within the Israelis, their love of freedom, their tenacity to hang onto it, the difficulty that they had in carving it out and achieving it. And yet, I still look back upon their history, about 58 years old, and in that period of time, aside from their war for independence and a protracted lengthy war in Lebanon that was more a period of taking military positions there than a period of constant fighting, aside from that, Israel has never had a war that took as long to fight and achieve a victory or a settlement in all of their existence as it took for this Congress just to fund our military. 
   Mr. Speaker, think about what that means. If we can't turn around funding for our military and it takes 108 days, and they are waiting to be able to make their decisions, and they are doing intradepartmental transfers of resources that are already in the pipeline, suspending the development of weapons programs, stopping and/or suspending, at least to some extent, the training of Iraqi troops, putting our troops in jeopardy, all of that going on because it takes 108 days to do what everybody in this Congress knew had to happen anyway. 
   Well, it finally happened today. People were able to make their political points and score their political scores over the last 108 days. And the American people are tired of it, and the White House is plenty tired of it. So, finally, we come to this resolution, and finally our troops are going to be funded. 
   But if that bill had hit the floor of this Congress 108 days ago, it would have passed, and the funding would have been in their hands, and we would have been in a significantly better position for military readiness across all branches of the Armed Forces and a better position within the Middle East. 
   But what this has done is encouraged our enemies, it has undermined our troops, it has put them at risk, and it threatens also to rear its ugly head again sometime in September and start us all through this same process. Well, that encourages our enemy. They are sitting there watching what is going on, and they would like to influence the political process here in the United States. Thankfully, our military knows what their duty is, and they are sworn to uphold their duty and obey their commanding officers and ultimately their Commander in Chief. Because of their loyalty, because of their sense of duty, we have a solid tactical position in Iraq and in the Middle East.     
   If they acted like some of the people here in this Congress acted, Mr. Speaker, that operation over there would have fallen apart a long time ago. So I thank our military men and women. 
   We're moving forward towards the Memorial Day where this Nation not just pauses, stops, stops to reflect upon the ultimate sacrifice that's given by our military men and women, the sacrifice of their lives for our freedom. And they ask us, did we adhere to this Constitution and did we exercise the freedoms that they've defended and fought for us in a fashion that's respectful and worthy of their sacrifice? 
   So I will say that today, finally, passing this appropriations off this floor, even though I'd like to go through there and amend a lot of that language, was closer to anything we've done this year to show that we're worthy of their sacrifice. 
   But the message is still the wrong message. The message I want them to hear is, it was worth it. It was worth you laying down your life for the freedom of 300 million people, and we're going to move this Nation forward into the future so that we can reach our destiny. And this destiny is a brighter destiny and a brighter future than many of the critics of this appropriations, this funding for our military. 
   And so, Mr. Speaker, that wraps up the portion of this presentation that deals with the current events of this week and today. But I have to roll this thing back to the current events of last week, that being that last week, on Thursday afternoon, here in this city, about 12:30, if I remember correctly, there was a press conference that took place over on the Senate side. And a group of senators got together and announced that they had finally untied the Gordian Knot of immigration and put together the best immigration bill that could be put together. They called it comprehensive immigration reform.  And they stipulated that they had been negotiating and working on this with Senator Kennedy of Massachusetts, who was one of the presenters, with the White House, President Bush, his representatives there, and that this delicately balanced comprehensive immigration bill could be and would be the vehicle that should pass through the Senate without amendment and come over here to the House, where we should certainly be respectful and just adopt the wisdom of the Senate, send the bill on to the President, who we know is waiting there with pen in hand, eager to sign the, what they would describe to be a comprehensive immigration bill. 
   And now, Mr. Speaker, I'd take you back, and the Members back to about January 6 of 2004. That would be the moment in time when President Bush gave his first major immigration reform speech. And I recall the speech that he gave. In fact, I pleaded that he not give it because it would split the Republican party. And it called for amnesty. 
   Now, we've had many debates on what amnesty is in that period of time, in that subsequent three, not quite 3 1/2 years. And I will lay out the definition that I think emerges as the most consistent and the most accurate definition of amnesty. 
   Now, we know that amnesty is a pardon, plain and simple, a pardon for a violation of a crime, generally to a group or class of people. Black's Law Dictionary defines it pretty close to that. It also recognizes that the 1986 bill that was the Immigration Reform Act, Immigration Reform and Control Act, IRCA, was an amnesty bill. And that's identified in Black's Law Dictionary. 
   But I'll define amnesty as a way that I think it works a little bit better for the American people, Mr. Speaker, and that is, to grant amnesty is to pardon immigration law breakers and reward them with the objective of their crime; a pardon and a reward. 
   So what I'm talking about that's going on with this comprehensive immigration reform isn't just amnesty, but it's amnesty plus a reward. And the reward is the objective of their crime. 
   Now, some will say it's amnesty if they get to keep a job because that's what they want. Well, some want to work. Some don't. In fact, 7 out of 12 are working; 5 out of 12 are not. So it doesn't work to define that they're getting amnesty because they get to have or keep a job here in the United States. 
   Some come here to be homemakers. Some come here because they are attracted by a relation. Some come here too young to work. Some come here too old to work. Not that many of those, I might add. 
   But they have a whole different variety of motives for coming into the United States illegally or overstaying their visas. 
   But the objective of their crime, and it is a crime to enter the United States illegally, and those people who do so are criminals by any definition. It doesn't do to march in the streets and say, you're not; if you committed a crime to come here, you're a criminal. 
   So to pardon immigration law breakers and reward them with the objective of their crime, pardon and reward. The objective is whatever is on their list, whatever their motivation is, we grant them. And that's what the Senate proposes to do with the legislation that they have before them in debate there this week, is that they propose to not only pardon those who enter the United States illegally, but to grant them the objective of their crime. And that means we're going to let you stay here and work, but we'd like to have you working, but you don't have to work. You can follow your own path. After all, this is America. 
   And so to argue that it's not amnesty, first I would back up just a little bit, Mr. Speaker, and point out that the language that is comprehensive immigration reform, that phrase encompasses amnesty. And the administration has argued, and the Open Borders Lobby has consistently argued that they are not for amnesty; they're opposed to amnesty. And yet, they're proposing that everybody be forgiven, and all of those who are not convicted of a felony or three serious misdemeanors, if you haven't had your fingerprints taken in America, they want to give you amnesty. They want you to be able to stay here. And they want to give you an automatic provisional permit to stay in the United States. 
   They keep talking about 12 million. Well, first I want to submit that comprehensive immigration reform now means to the American people amnesty. The administration and the Open Borders Lobby has not been successful in redefining the term amnesty. They can't convince you or me or the American people that it's not amnesty if you grant someone a pass or a pardon to stay here, because it might be coupled with paying a fine, and the fine somehow is supposed to be a substitute for 6 months in jail and/or deportation. 
   But whatever the current penalty is for violating, the law is what it is. If you reduce that penalty and if you change the law, that means you've provided a pardon, and that's amnesty; and especially when the fine that they're proposing is a fine that's generally significantly less than it would cost to hire a coyote to bring you, smuggle you into the United States. 
   Yes, I know. There's a fee of $4,000, and coyotes are $1,500 to $2,500, what the going rate is. But that can be paid over increments, and it's stretched out over a period of time. 
   The talk is, well, what else are you going to do with the 12 million people? Well, first of all, it's not 12 million people; 12 million people is not the ceiling; it's the floor. It's the beginning. It's a minimum of 12 million people, Mr. Speaker, and that number goes up. 
   If you go back to the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, it was predicted that that was going to provide amnesty to a million people. 
   President Reagan, Lord bless his memory, told the truth. He said, I'm going to sign an amnesty bill because I believe it's the best alternative. And so he signed the bill. It was for a million people, and it became 3 million people because the quickly growing cottage industry of document fraud provided for the kind of phony documents that allowed three times as many people to apply and be approved. And there was a significant percentage of those applications that were later, upon Congressional oversight, proven to be fraudulent documents that granted people a green card and a path to citizenship here in the United States, even though it wasn't consistent even with the amnesty law that was signed by President Reagan. 
   Now, here we are. What else are you going to do with 12 million people? We're going to give them a provisional legal status here in the United States. In 18 months, they submit that they will sign everybody up, and now we'll have everbody's fingerprints, and we'll be able to do a background check on everybody. And some of those background checks have to get done within 24 hours. You aren't going to have a private company do that. Background checks have to be done by government. Private companies do not have access to those databases of fingerprints, NCIC files, the kind of violations that are there. And government doesn't move so quickly that they can swallow up, in a matter of 18 months, the 12 million applications that are envisioned by the Senate that would be processed; 12 million applications. We have backlogs there now. We have delays there now. And the 12 million is not the ceiling; it's the floor. It begins at 12 million. 
   Then the document fraud, then the miscalculations, then the erroneous census and erroneous estimations on how many people are here in the United States start to show up, and those that have a clean record or have some means to present a clean record are going to come forward. 
   But I would ask the Members of the Senate, Mr. Speaker, even if this all happens the way you envision it, even if the good people come forward and they put their fingerprints down and that goes through the NCIC database and comes back, and even though they may be clean and they don't have felonies against them, or three serious misdemeanors, maybe all of that could happen, I guess maybe in another world it would happen that way. 
   But if it all happened, what are you going to do about the people that don't come out of the shadows? What can be done about the people that are here under false identification, about the people that have a criminal record in their home country and they're afraid we are going to find that out with a background check, difficult to do. What are we going to do about the people that stay in the shadows? What are  we going to do about the people that came here to live in the shadows and decided already they want to stay in the shadows and live there, that they don't have an interest in becoming part of the records of the United States? 
   How does that get resolved? 
   What do you do to provide an incentive for felons, criminals, people who have committed three or more serious misdemeanors? What do you do to get them to come forward? 
   And the answer to that is, if you want to deport them, they're not coming forward. If it's your goal to deport felons and triple violators of serious misdemeanors so that you can send them back to their home country, they are not going to come forward. They're going to stay in the shadows. 
   Some of the estimates say that 10 percent of the illegal population are criminals in one fashion or another beyond just violating immigration law. I don't know what that number is. I know that 28 percent of the populations within our Federal and State penitentiaries are criminal aliens. And so I would suspect that that percentage of population is greater. 
   But they're not coming forward. You'll not get felons to come out of the shadows. And so the very object of this grand idea from the administration and the Open Borders Lobby is, we can't enforce the border unless somehow we take these millions of people that are pouring across our border, legalize them so they don't clutter up our law enforcement, they don't get in the way of our law enforcement; and then, if we do that, now we can concentrate on the criminals, the felons, the triple serious misdemeanor violators, and that'll let us take our 18,000 Border Patrol officers and our extra 10,000-plus our existing ICE officers, and we will enforce the law, and we'll have more prison beds, and this is all going to work out in this grand scheme into a grand dream that will become reality. 
   But this grand scheme, grand dream is never going to become reality because there's such a thing as human nature. And human nature will resist if it's not in their interest. So we'll still have the negative elements out of this population that I will concede is predominantly good people, on balance. And yet the negative elements that exist there in significant proportions are not going to be brought forward by anybody's promise that, if you do so, we're going to grant you a legal status in the United States because we've already promised we're going to send you home. 
   So I ask this question of the Senators, Mr. Speaker, and that is, we're not willing to deport the people today that violated our immigration laws. We're not willing to pick up the 500,000 or more that poured out into the streets to demonstrate for what, benefits from the United States taxpayer that they want to go to people who are unlawfully in the United States. And I'll speak more specifically of those demonstrations a year ago last May and in the previous march than I do for the ones I saw here because they were far weaker. But that's the people that are putting demands on the taxpayers. 
   And to presume that they're going to come forward is a flawed notion. They will not. And we're not willing to send people home today who are just in violation of our immigration laws. So why would I, why would anyone who would contemplate voting for this Senate bill, why would we believe that the people that promote it, the Teddy Kennedys, and the other personalities over there, including the White House, if they won't enforce the law today, why do we think they'd enforce the law as this proposal matures in 4 years, 8 years or add the 18 months, the sign-up period to it, 9 1/2 years, when they would deport the first person who was just unlawfully present from the United States?     
   The proponents of this bill won't do it today. They resist that, and they say you can't deport 12 million people; so that is your only other alternative except ours. Well, no. Truthfully, Mr. Speaker, I would say, yes, we could deport 12 million people. No, I am not in favor of attempting that, but if we had the will, we could put together the ability. We had the Manhattan Project. How long did that take us, 3 1/2 years, or was it 34 months, right in that area, to decide that we were going to develop an A-bomb and detonate it? And if we did that, if the United States makes up its mind we are going to act, we can act, and we can get things done. 
   No. We don't have the will. We don't have the will to enforce the law because our heartstrings are tugged upon by our neighbors who we know are here illegally, but they are good workers and good family people. That is a constraint. 
   But what we need to do is we need to step up and take a look at this thing and fall back in love with the rule of law. It is one thing to have affection for your neighbors, but it is another to pay that price off and at the expense of it to be the rule of law. And that is what is presented here. It is a plain, straight-up amnesty policy. It is the destruction of the rule of law in America. And the rule of law is the most essential pillar of American exceptionalism. 
   If you pull the rule of law out of our Nation's history, and you decide whom you are going to enforce against and whom you are not, and let people pick and choose, and if you can get a large enough constituency group out there, like 12 million or 20 million, then you can ignore the rule of law, or you can amend the law to accommodate the constituency group that is out there. 
   No matter what your interests are, if you don't adhere to this Constitution, and if you don't adhere to this rule of law, and if you take the rule of law out of our history, and then you replay history forward again, back it up to July 4, 1776, pull the rule of law out of the equation, and then march forward and see what you get, Mr. Speaker, and I will submit this: You don't really have a reason to have a Revolutionary War. You don't have a reason to throw the yoke of tyranny off of our back. You don't have a reason to bring patriots forward to put their lives on the line to fight for freedom that was shaped by our Founders, and the legacy of the Founders would be out then and taken out of the continuum of American history. And if you pull the legacy of the Founders, the Declaration, the God-given rights that come from Him through the Declaration and are established in our Constitution, if you pull that all out of the equation, try to march forward towards freedom without the rule of law. Try to march towards prosperity without the rule of law. Try to march forward towards a free Nation that is conceived in liberty and dedicated to proposition that all men are created equal, and do that without the rule. 
   I think, Mr. Speaker, we are starting to see what kind of Nation we would have had if the people in this Congress who preceded us would have had such cavalier disregard for the rule of law, as there appears to be over in the United States Senate, as I fear there may be here in the House of Representatives. The most essential pillar of American exceptionalism is the rule of law, and it would be sacrificed on the altar of cheap labor. 
   The rule of law is the first thing to go, and the second thing is the middle class. It is another pillar of American exceptionalism, Mr. Speaker, the middle class. And here in the United States, because of our prosperity, what we have done is we have expanded this middle class. We have provided an opportunity for everyone to get a free public education, and that education has put them forth so that when they got out of the public education process, they went to work. And people who decided they didn't want to go on to college, every generation up until this generation had an opportunity to put on a blue collar and punch a time clock and live with a level of moderate prosperity that allowed them to aspire to buy and own a home and raise their family and live their lives in a productive fashion if that was what they wished, because we ever broadened and raised the opportunities for the middle class. But the middle class, Mr. Speaker, will be destroyed by the Senate proposal because the costs of this proposal are astronomical. 
   We have never done anything that had this kind of economic impact. And the economic impact, as laid out by Robert Rector of the Heritage Foundation in the study, shows that if we go forward with the language that is in the Senate or with some of this that is contemplated here in the House, the Social Security burden comes crashing into the Social Security Trust Fund at  almost precisely the time that that trust fund goes into the red. And when that happens, it puts a $2.5 trillion burden on the American taxpayers. That burden and the painful march up to that period of time in the future puts such a burden on our producers in this country and the welfare benefits and the public services that will be used up by those who can't produce enough to carry their load in this society. And it is not their fault. They just can't, by their educational background and their lack of skills. Then forever this middle class is diminished. It is narrowed, and it is lowered. 
   So you have an ever-expanding nouveau riche at the top. You have a new aristocracy that has emerged that believes that they have a birthright to cheap labor, not just to work in their factories, but to clean their mansions. That is the cheap-labor people that are part of this. And you have the cheap votes side of this of people who know that they will get a powerful new constituency base. Those are the two ends of this, the sacrifice of the rule of law, the sacrifice of the great middle class that has been a principal pillar of American exceptionalism. 
   The third thing, and the least important of the three, is what happens to the Republican Party? That is where we are going if we adopt the philosophy that is presented over in the Senate. That is where we must not go if we love the destiny of this country. We must have a national debate. We need to have a CBO score, an OMB 
   score on the Senate bill. When it changes, the Senators need to know the fiscal impact of what happens not just in the next 10 years, but what happens in the next generation or two. 
   This Nation has plenty of labor. The argument that this economy would collapse if everyone woke up legally in their home country tomorrow morning is false. And it is flawed on its face. 
   Mr. Speaker, I will take that up perhaps a little later. But what I see on the floor at this moment is the gentleman from Tennessee. And when I see that look in the face of the gentleman from Tennessee, I know I want to hear what he has to say, and I would be so happy to yield to Mr. ZACH WAMP. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IMMIGRATION REFORM AND OTHER ISSUES OF THE WEEK -- (House of Representatives - May 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Tennessee, who brings his typical insight and vigor to the floor of the House of Representatives. 
   And I pick up where we left off, and that is, the colossal mistakes that are often made by large bodies. And I reflect upon one way that I analyze it when I find myself in the minority of the vote, and that is, the people's judgment is what is at place here. That's what goes up on the board in this Chamber, Mr. Speaker. And the response to that, when a colossal mistake is made is, ``Nor is the people's judgment always true. The most can err as grossly as the few.'' And I would submit that there are potentially people poised to err grossly and take us down a path for which there is no return. There are no do-overs. There is no putting the toothpaste back in the tube. If we do this, it would be a colossal mistake. And something that is a basic tenet in the Senate for their negotiations, and I believe a basic tenet here in the House for theirs, is that the bottom line for Democrats is, those who are here illegally get to stay. That is their standard. They don't want to send anybody back. They won't ask anybody to go home. They won't ask them to comply with the law and self-deport. And if you're not willing to send people home, you can't have an immigration policy. So I ask the question, when would you, under the Senate proposal of the bill, deport the first person that was just unlawfully present in the United States and hadn't broken any laws? And the answer to that is, they don't know the answer. And the answer you get from the other side over here, Mr. Speaker, is they don't know the answer either, at least they can't confess to the answer, which is, not today, not next month, not next year, not in the 18 months of voluntary sign up for provisional legal status, not in the 4 years subsequent to that, which you could sign up with for a Z Visa, not in the next 4 years which you could extend it for, and not in the next 8 to 9 1/2 years at least, and in fact, we know that not now, that not ever would they be willing to deport someone who was just illegally in the United States. And if the proponents of this plan aren't willing to deport people, then they can't have an enforcement law at all. All they can have is, we're going to sign everybody up, and we're going to hope that the felons and the criminals will sign up, too. And if they do, we will hope they don't walk back out the door, and we can maybe identify them and send them home someday. I don't know if they've examined the idea that they aren't going to show up to sign up if they think they might be deported. And if you ask them to go back to their own country and do a touchback, they aren't going to go back unless you guarantee they can come back into this country. And in fact, that's one of the other promises that they made in the Senate; well, you can go back to your home country. You have to do that if you're the head of a household, and I believe it's if you want a Path to Citizenship, unless there are exceptions of course. And so the list goes on and on. 
   The argument that comes is, well, it's not amnesty because it's not an automatic Path to Citizenship. So I asked the question, when have we given an automatic Path to Citizenship to anyone? And the answer to that is, we have done that five times in our history. The last time was a few years ago to the Marquis Lafayette, the brave Frenchman who fought so well to help preserve, protect and promote our liberty here, posthumously by a couple of hundred years, but we gave him automatic citizenship. The one prior to that was Mother Teresa, another one very, very well deserving, a saint. We granted her automatic citizenship posthumously. There are three others whose names I don't have uploaded into my memory, but five people in the history of America have received automatic citizenship. 
   So one of the best talking points that the Senate has and the White House has is, well, it's not amnesty because they don't get automatic citizenship? I mean, that is a speechless argument designed to throw you off the track. 
   And so I looked through a few more of these pieces, and there is language that comes out that is part of their commercial that is designed to convince us that we should be for this bill. And one of the languages is also, here we go, this is from the proponents of the bill. They say rest easy because ``no illegal alien should be able to gain employment in the United States.'' Well, oops, I left out one word. ``No illegal alien should be able to gain legitimate employment in the United States'' once this proposal is adopted. Now, think about that, Mr. Speaker, wouldn't that be the case today, that no illegal alien can gain legitimate employment in the United States today? Because if they gain employment, it's illegitimate employment, isn't it? And so this is their commercial, no illegal alien should be able to gain legitimate employment in the United States. Well, none can now.  
   So, you have a series of benchmarks and a series of triggers. And when you look at what that means, it's quite interesting. The triggers are not based upon performance, they are not based upon getting operational control of the border or security, they're just based upon spending money. So if we spend enough money and we build some fence on the border, up to 370 miles of that fence, that releases one trigger, and it legalizes this. Well, the trigger is the Path to Citizenship, by my view. Those who get provisional status here are everybody that walks forward that we don't have their fingerprints and that have not committed a felony or a serious misdemeanor. 
   So one of the triggers, to build some fence; that doesn't mean that you can't build it in such a fashion that we are building. They will go around the end. But it is not the 854 miles of fence that this Congress has mandated, that passed the floor of this House, that passed the Senate by a vote of 80-19, that went to the President where he signed it, without ceremony, I might add; without significant ceremony. No, the American people are being docked 484 miles of double wall and fence because the trigger is 370 of it built. Now they say they are going to go ahead and build the rest, but it's not appropriated, and you know how that goes. We have appropriated money to some fence, and that is $1.187 billion to that. 
   Then another trigger is that, let's see, that we hire up to 18,000 Border Patrol officers. That is a trigger. Well, we've got a turnover there that the new hires only have an average turnover of 24 months. So you've got to hire a lot more to keep them in place. That's two of the triggers. 
   But it's today in law, Mr. Speaker, that the Secretary of Homeland Security certify ``operational control of the border.'' And the definition of ``operational control of the border'' is a real operational control of the border, and that means to effectively and definitionally eliminate illegal border crossings, to force all crossings through the ports of entry, to have sufficient conditions there so that we can interdict contraband and illegal border crossers. That's one that could be a trigger that is already in law. It's not the trigger. The trigger is, cut back the fence and wall by 484 miles and build 370 of it only. 
   What's not in the trigger? The U.S. VISIT exit system. After September 11, we required that we establish a U.S. VISIT system that would, by computer, you could swipe your card, and it would tell you when you came into the United States; you went up on a tally sheet as in the United States. When you left, the exit portion of U.S. VISIT tallied that you left. And you have a list of the sum total of the people that are here in the United States, but the administration said we can't build U.S. VISIT. We can't make it work in the exit system, and we're not going to try. That was a few months ago. Well, this can't work without an exit system for U.S. VISIT. That's not the trigger. They think maybe they are going to go forward and build it, but it's not in the trigger, and it should be because their system can't function without it. 
   I said operational control of the border. Twenty thousand additional beds to help us be able to process these illegal border crossers, they don't have to be in place, but that is something that has to happen. None of this is funded, by the way. 
   And so, if I look at the other missing portions of this, the sanctuary cities, the significant number of large cities in America that have an executive order, or their city council has passed an ordinance or other political subdivisions that prohibits their law enforcement officers from cooperating with Federal law enforcement officers with regard to immigration status. So they say you can't even gather information on people whom are in the United States illegally even when you know they are there illegally, even when you know they are gang members. You can't go in there and interdict them and deport them because they want to be a sanctuary city. And yet, when we come across the people that don't sign up, according to the Senate version of the plan, somehow we are going to deport them, without the help and support and cooperation of local law enforcement, who are allowed to draw down billions in Federal dollars, but defy Federal law and prohibit their local law enforcement officers from even cooperating and gathering data so that they can cooperate with the Immigration Customs Enforcement people, with the ICE people. 
   Sanctuary cities are not addressed. They have a sanctuary in this bill to defy Federal law. We must have them in order to do that and in order to make this work. 
   And then, an annual hard cap. They say it's 12 million. I say it's a lot more than 12 million. I think it's more than 20 million. But they don't consider that; the 12 million is the floor, not the ceiling. There is no ceiling. And so they will sell this package without a real estimate on how many it will be, Mr. Speaker. And when you ask them, will they support or will this House, and they will get their chance to do it, will they support putting a cap at 12 million? You think it's 12 million? Fine. Put it in law that you're not legalizing or authorizing any more than those you say that you're authorizing right now. And I'll submit that they will resist that hard cap. In fact, I don't think it has been a serious discussion over in the Senate. I saw the looks on their faces when I brought up the issue, and it's like we haven't really thought of that.     
   I think there needs to be a hard cap. I believe we have enough labor. I know there are 69 million Americans working age that are not in the workforce. There are about 6.9 million working illegals. You could hire one out of ten of the people not in the workforce today of working age and replace all illegals. That is all it would take. 
   The illegals that are in the workforce are 4.7 percent of the workforce. They are producing 2.2 percent of the work, for skill reasons, and we know that. If you think that would be cataclysmic on the American economy if we got up tomorrow morning and we didn't have that labor to do that work, some places would make some dramatic adjustments, yes. But if it were your factory and your workers, you found out at 7:30 in the morning when they clocked in at 8 that 2.2 percent weren't going to show up, your alternative would be this: You would simply send out a memo to all of your people and you would say sorry. Today your coffee break in the morning and afternoon gets cut from 15 minutes down to 9 1/2 . We are going to pick up the 2.2 percent of the production, and we will still be clocking out of here and you can go home at 5 o'clock. 
   That is how much labor that is. That is how much production 2.2 percent is. And then you would start to hire the people to fill the gap. Hire the people that are here legally, put the people to work that are here riding already in this cart, as was mentioned by Mr. Wamp. 
   So we have the solutions to this here in this country. We need to adhere to the rule of law and preserve and protect the most essential pillar of American exceptionalism, that rule of law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (HONEST LEADERSHIP AND OPEN GOVERNMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Chairman, I thank Ranking Member Lamar Smith for yielding to me and also for his leadership on this bill and also for his overall leadership within the Judiciary Committee. 
   I want to also express my gratitude to Chairman Conyers, a gracious gentleman, who has worked most of these issues out in a generally bipartisan fashion, sometimes I would go so far as to say a nonpartisan fashion. 
   Occasionally when I come up with an idea, it is considered a good one by my side of the aisle. And it is quite rare for me to come up with an idea that is considered a good one on both sides of the aisle. And yet, in this case, I am pleased that both sides have agreed that the portion that I introduced which provides for reporting to be on the Internet in a searchable, sortable, downloadable fashion. I mean, this is the 21st century. We are in the BlackBerry and iPod age, and Congress ought to get up to speed and be able to transfer that information out to the public. 
   One of the things advocated by the chairman and ranking member and other members of the Judiciary Committee was that we shine sunlight on this lobbying process and the funding process. That is the anecdote to whatever we are doing here. Whenever we have tightened-up regulations, and we are trying to correct for generally one individual human failure, sometimes it is an anecdote. Occasionally it is a small group. Seldom does it go across a broad universe of people. If you look through the legislation that has passed on the floor of Congress throughout generations, I think you will find that often that legislation is specific to an incident. So those incidents reflect human failures, and human nature itself, I believe that foundation is generally good. 
   Well, what sunlight does, it activates that human nature and it turns loose and activates the bloggers across the country where they are sitting with now real-time access within a reporting period of time to the lobbying activities, the funding activities that take place, and they will be able to track those activities on the Internet. There will be new blogs that will open up. There will be others that will be activated and animated, and when they can search and sort and download, that means that their scrutiny of the lobbying activities that surround this Congress will be real, and it will be effective, and it will be sortable. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (HONEST LEADERSHIP AND OPEN GOVERNMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the chairman, as I reclaim my time. And I appreciate the tone and the tenor of this debate, as well as the work that has gone on on this policy. 
   I would advocate there are a few things that we can do yet to move us further into the technological age. I look up on the wall of the House and see, I can be watching on television, to walk over here, and in the 5 minutes it takes to get here from the Longworth building, the subject can change. Actually, the bill can change or the amendment can change, and a Member, a seasoned Member, can walk in here and not know what the debate is about. And yet, many of the State legislatures post, they project on the wall inside their chambers, the bill, the subject matter that is being debated. It is one of the other things that we can do in the context of shining some sunlight on. In fact, we can shine sunlight on the activities of Members in the fashion as we have lobbyists. That is not the subject of this debate here on the floor, so much as it is, I like to raise the expectations and the hopes that we can use this same philosophy and expand sunlight on reporting process of our travel activities, for example, and our financial recordings, both personal and the FEC documents, so they are in a searchable, sortable, downloadable database and give the bloggers that opportunity to scrutinize us the same way they will the lobbyist. 
   I think if we keep moving down the path and having this kind of debate and dialogue, we will get to where the public confidence in us raises. 
   The chairman also recognizes that I am concerned about some of the allegations about the electoral process. If we are able to add integrity in the electoral process, then the American people have more confidence in the whole process. 
   This is one component of what needs to be done. If we can add to it the same levels of reporting for ourselves as Members, if we can add more integrity in voter registration and the actual electoral process, all of those things strengthen us as a Nation. 
   I want to make it clear, and I don't think there is any doubt that I would rather lose an election than lose the confidence of the American people in this system. If they lose their confidence in our democratic process, then the whole system melts down. This is an important step along the way. There are other steps to take along the way. I think they are consistent with the philosophy of the bill before us. I thank all parties involved. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (EXPRESSING HEARTFELT SYMPATHY FOR THE VICTIMS AND THEIR FAMILIES OF THE RECENT IOWA TORNADO -- (House of Representatives - June 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlelady from North Carolina for yielding. 
   I rise with my colleagues this evening to pay tribute to the Scouts who were lost in that storm of June 11, 2008, and to those also who survived and set such a fine example for Scouts everywhere and for all time to follow. 
   The location of the tragedy is a few miles west of where I live, I suppose about 25 miles as the crow flies over our beloved Loess Hills, some of us call them the bluffs, yet a unique soil type that exists in only one other place in the world. 
   And in those Loess Hills is an 1,800-acre wilderness park, the Boy Scout camp, where sometimes there are as many as 8- to 900 Scouts camping. On that fateful evening of June 11, there were about 93 Scouts on the location, along with about 25 leaders. 
   And in this disaster, as I have been on the site the second morning after the tragedy, as well as went over it last Saturday morning to take a look at that from the air to try to make sense of it and put it in a concept where I can at least explain it, this tornado came across the Missouri riverbottom, and it ripped through a small treeline down on the flat part of the riverbottom and then over an irrigation system and flipped it over and went directly to the ranger's house, the ranger who lives into the first finger valley in the bluffs in his home with his wife and three small children. 
   That tornado went directly at his home, which had no basement, slab on-grade, about the same kind of architecture as the shelter house that the Boy Scouts were in, and took his house and tore it to shreds. They huddled in an interior closet and ended up underneath the rubble from their fireplace, trapped there, the ranger, his wife and the three children. And they were all trapped and laying underneath the blocks and the stones. 
   And the tornado then went on up the valley and just jumped over a little ridge and dropped right down on the shelter house where 40 to 50 of the Scouts had gone to for shelter. 
   And I want to emphasize, Mr. Speaker, that there's nothing more the Scouts could have done, no place that they could have gone that was better than where they went, with 93 of them scattered out in these finger valleys, and they were living in small pup tents that were pitched along the valley. As I came in there, many of those tents were crushed underneath the trees. If they had stayed in their tents they would not have survived. 
   Some of them didn't get into the shelter house and had to lay on the ground. Those that survived, the tornado miraculously sucked the air out of their lungs, but 40 to 50 went into the shelter house, Mr. Speaker. And they did the only thing they could do which is get the kind of shelter that they could. 
   The velocity of the wind was such that it picked up a pick-up truck that was sitting about 100 feet on the one side of the building and blasted that vehicle through the building, through the fireplace, through the chimney. And that vehicle landed about 150 feet the other side of what was left of the building, which wasn't much at all. And the Scouts that we lost were lost underneath the rubble that was knocked down by that pick-up truck that was blown through. 
   This lasted about 8 seconds. Scouts being always prepared, one of them punched the stopwatch on his wristwatch and timed the storm while it was there and shut the stopwatch off. Eight seconds was how long the terror lasted. 
   And immediately after that was over, some of the Scouts rose up from the rubble and began to help the others and triage and do as their first aid training had taught them. 
   Some of them ran down not quite a half a mile to the ranger's home, where they began frantically tearing the rubble off of the ranger and his three children and his wife and who were trapped underneath there and would have eventually suffocated. They pulled them all out, and they all walked away, the ranger and his family. 
   Some of the Scouts ran up to another location on the wilderness campsite and went into a building and got a couple of small ATVs and all the chainsaws they could get their hands on. By the time the emergency personnel arrived--that was within 7 minutes--they were sawing logs out of the way to make room for the emergency workers. 
   These Scouts not only had trained the day before, but 2 years and 2 months earlier, they had trained in April for a similar kind of a drill. They were surprised at 5 o'clock in the morning by the Scout leaders and the local EMT workers who had set up this training drill. They had issued the Scouts first-aid kits, light boxes or clear plastic boxes, with gauze and other type of first-aid equipment in those kits. These Scouts who had trained 2 years earlier and 1 day earlier  for a similar disaster, found themselves with the first-aid kits that they had been issued, giving first aid to their fellow Scouts and some to their Scout leaders. 
   As I walked that site on the Friday morning following the Wednesday afternoon, some of these first-aid kits were scattered out around the site where they had been used up helping each other. It's a powerful example of the training that the Scouts had gone through and how they used that training. 
   Mr. Speaker, they did everything they could have done from a training standpoint. They did everything they could have done from a reaction standpoint. They did all of the right things in the aftermath of the tornado, and I believe that this tragedy of losing the four Scouts, as sad as it is--and we pay tribute to them and their lives and we offer our prayers and our shared grief to their families and the families of all of those who feel this pain--as sad as that is, I believe that there is a silver lining to this cloud. 
   First, I'm confident that there will be a memorial built on that location for those four Scouts.     
   And I believe that there will be a day soon where the training drills of the Scouts will incorporate the things that they learned there, the things that they did there, and I believe there will be Scouts that come to this camp, this 1,800-acre wilderness camp, from all over the United States over time who will train on the very location where we lost the four Scouts. 
   Before I conclude, Mr. Speaker, I do want to read the list of the local volunteer organizations that I know are at least on this list--and I'm convinced it cannot be all of them--the Little Sioux, Iowa, Volunteer Fire Department on the site quickly, along with the Monona County Emergency Management people, the Decatur Volunteer Fire Department of Decatur, Nebraska, Fort Calhoun, Nebraska Volunteer Fire Department, Monona County Sheriff's Department, Harrison County Sheriff's Department, the Iowa State Patrol, Iowa National Guard, Red Cross, Mercy Air Care, and the Little Sioux Boy Scout Ranch. They all began to arrive there within 7 minutes of the time that this tornado concluded. 
   I congratulate them for their courageous response, for the example that they've set, for the inspiration that they are. I hope to be there to dedicate the memorial when that day comes. I offer my prayers and sympathy to the Scouts and their families. May God continue to bless the Boy Scouts of America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Chairman, this amendment that I bring before the House is an amendment that I brought on at least two other appropriation bills. The section of the Code that it addresses, 274A(h)(3), is the section that defines those who are not lawful to work in the United States. It includes two categories of people. It would be those who are unlawfully present and those who are lawfully present without work authorization. 
   My amendment prohibits any of the funds that are appropriated under this act from being used to employ persons who are not lawful to work in the United States. 
   It is a standard amendment that I brought in the past. Should the gentleman ask me to yield, I would be open to that, obviously. 
   Meanwhile, the point that inspires me to come to the floor more than any other is a report that was released in June of 2006 by the Office of the Inspector General of the Social Security Administration that identified that approximately 11,000 employees were likely working for the government, 7 Federal agencies, 7 State agencies, and 3 local agencies, under nonwork Social Security numbers. All the Federal Government needed to do was run their databases against each other, the Social Security Administration and the Department of Homeland Security. They could have identified these employees. 
   The category that I have described only includes those who are lawfully present but not authorized to work, but there is another category of those that are not lawfully present that this amendment would address, as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, reclaiming my time, I thank the chairman. I concur with the analysis that he has delivered to the floor of this House, Mr. Chairman. I would encourage adoption of my amendment. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. King). 
   The amendment was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentlewoman from Colorado for yielding. 
   As I listen to this debate, there are a number of things that race across my mind. One of them is the constant repetition of the statement, ``This is a real cut. This is a real cut.'' It is a real cut in a real big increase. So if you want to describe it as a real cut, you have to say a real cut in a real big increase or you're not telling the American people what is really going on here. 
   There are a few areas of our budget that are discretionary spending, and there are a few areas of our budget that aren't discretionary spending. Those that are on auto pilot we can't do a lot about in the appropriations process. Yet those that are discretionary spending, we can do something about. Yet the majority seems to be determined to continue to accelerate the increases in spending in the discretionary sections of our budget. It is like you are driven to grow this government no matter the price to the taxpayers. 
   So I have come in a realization here in the first 6 or 7 months of this 110th Congress: You guys really believe in what you do. I didn't think so before. I thought maybe there were some people who were a little cynical, but I believe now you really believe in what you're doing. I believe you really do want to grow this government. I believe you want to raise taxes. I believe you want to take the responsibilities off of all the people all the time and take it into a maternalistic, socialist government. I now believe that. You've convinced me. And you've been constant and you've been repetitive and you have been consistent and persistent in driving this growth of government across this floor of Congress. 
   One day, the American people will rebel to this if they can get over their apathy. I'm for the Musgrave amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (FARM, NUTRITION, AND BIOENERGY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 26, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Chairman, I thank the ranking member for yielding me this time. 
   I said earlier there were five reasons to vote against this bill. I just sat down and wrote a list. Now there are seven. Some of them have been added to it since it passed the committee. We are facing a tax increase, a huge tax increase. That is something that a lot of us can't cross. 
   The abrogation of treaties. When you think about the implications not just of companies doing business in the United States but the reaction when the retribution comes from foreign countries when they start to change their trade agreements and treaties with us. That is going to mean it is going to be nearly impossible for us to negotiate bilateral trade agreements, WTO trade agreements; and that draws a bright line against trade. 
   There is Davis-Bacon wage scale in this bill. I will make the prediction that the 5th Congressional District of Iowa will remain the number one renewable fuels congressional district in America. Last year we put over a billion dollars of private capital into that, and we did so without the Davis-Bacon wage scale. We did it with merit shop wages. We built good plants, state of the art, and developed the technology. We are number one in biodiesel in my district. We will be number one in ethanol by the end of this season. We will stay there because they are not going to use this component because they will not be able to afford it. It is a 20 percent increase in cost. Where you could build five plants before, now you can only build four. We have a 46 percent increase in Food Stamps under the argument of food insecurity, but yet no one was going without food. They just thought some future meal they might have to worry about. So 46 percent increase in food stamps. 
   The Pickford v. Glickman that was mentioned by the gentleman from Georgia, there were black farmers that were discriminated against. And some were. But a billion dollars was paid out to some of them. And $100 million was spent in administration of Pickford, and I looked into that. What we have are 18,000 black farmers in America, 96,000 claimants and a future liability to this bill of $3 billion in the Pickford piece. I know it is not all authorized, I know we have not found all of the money, but you open the door to that. 
   I will vote ``no'' on this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (HOPE VI IMPROVEMENT AND REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, the amendment that I offer to this bill that is before us today is an amendment that strikes the requirements for Davis-Bacon wage scale and prohibits any of the funds from going to Davis-Bacon wage scale. And for the information of the body, Davis-Bacon wage scale is a Federal wage scale that was imposed over 75 years ago in this country; and I could go back into the history of it, but the essence of Davis-Bacon wage scale is this: it imposes union scale on all projects and any projects that are $2,000 or more, which essentially are all projects. 
   I am a Member of this Congress that has worked and lived under Davis-Bacon wage scale, and I have done that for well over 30 years. I have done the homework, I have done the paperwork, I have put together the spreadsheets, and I dealt with all the employee dynamics that were involved there. 
   And I make the point, Mr. Chairman, that labor is a commodity like corn or beans or gold or oil or gasoline, and the value of it needs to be determined by the marketplace, not by the government. And for the Federal Government to intervene in a relationship between two people, and a contractual relationship in particular, at the cost of the taxpayer that always favors going to a union scale and is not a prevailing wage but it is in effect a union scale, this authorization as written, if my amendment is not adopted, will cost the taxpayers an additional $26 million. 
   And the inflation to construction projects runs between 8 percent and 35 percent. I use the number 20 percent. It is a low average. But I am pledged here to protect the taxpayers, and I believe we need to protect the relationship between the employer and the employee. And if unions want to negotiate, I am all for their ability to do that, but I don't think it should be imposed by statute, a statute that cannot keep up with a change in the wage scale, a statute that is not effective, and one that, according to a Department of Labor Inspector General study, nearly 100 percent of the data cannot be relied upon. It is time to end this practice. It is archaic, and it is time to strike this provision out of here and eliminate Davis-Bacon wage scale.  
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (HOPE VI IMPROVEMENT AND REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, first of all I say to the gentleman from California, that is offensive to me to say that my 28 years of meeting payroll, my 1,400-some consecutive weeks of making payroll, of providing health insurance and retirement benefits and year-around work for employees and a career path for them is, to take his words, poor wages and poor working conditions. My employees didn't think so, and neither did the people that applied for a job that I didn't have room to hire. That is not the way it works out there in the world. And who in this Congress has some experience that can step forward and say otherwise?     
   I lived it. I lived it all of my working life. I know what happens when you pay the excavator operator $28 an hour and the shovel operator $12 an hour. You can't get the guy on the excavator to get down and pick up the shovel to move a clod. You can't get him to pick up a grease gun. It destroys the relationship on the workplace, and it rearranges everybody's assignments. And so the guy running the finish motor grader is rolling clods out there because he doesn't want to get off the machine and pick up the grease gun, and your machines wear out. And the boss has got to come to work at 3 o'clock in the morning to do the maintenance. That's what happens when government gets in the way. And it costs money. The inflation goes up; 8 percent, 35 percent. I pick 20 percent. There is $26.4 million in this bill that is unnecessary. 
   We have a shortage of labor. We are bringing in millions of people to unskilled jobs here in the United States because we say this economy cannot survive without that. And now we can't go without a union scale. That is union scale, Mr. Scott. And you can't show me any statistical evidence otherwise. It is the union operations that file the reports because those that are not union get organized and they get picketed. 
   These people are smart. They are not foolish about this. And this is a Jim Crow law. We went through this before. This was New York City. It was a Federal building back in 1930 or 1931, and a contractor in New York City decided that he wanted to keep out the low bid that came from Alabama. The low bid came from Alabama because the labor could come from Alabama. Those didn't happen to be white people. Those were African Americans that came up and undercut the union wages in New York and that brought about this ``Republican'' bill. 
   So I call it a Jim Crow bill. And I call it a racist bill, and it is one that has been now shoehorned into this economy, into this bill, into this legislation, in order to protect union wage scale. 
   I have pledged to come here to preserve and protect the free enterprise side of this, the competition that is necessary for the efficiency that is here. And I will also protect the right of individuals to organize and negotiate for a good wage and good benefits. That's also a right we should have in this country. 
   But this is not about prevailing wage. This is about union pay scale, and it was a bill that was rooted in Jim Crow laws that has now been transferred into union scale. 
   I urge the adoption of my amendment. Save $26.4 million and protect the relationship between employers and employees and let me provide a 12-month, year-round job with benefits and retirement funds so that people can plan their future, not hire them for 3 hours and let them go for the next rest of the week. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I appreciate the privilege and the honor to address you on the floor of the United States House of Representatives. 
   This is one of these evenings that is a hot and sultry night here in Washington, D.C. It strikes me as the kind of day that actually was in August when the first hearings happened out here in Washington that were addressing the global warming issue. They had a Dr. Hansen--he happens to be from my hometown--who testified before that first hearing. The temperature was, oh, approaching 100 degrees; the humidity was, oh, approaching 100 degrees, and it wasn't an air-conditioned office about 20 or more years ago, maybe 25 years ago. It wasn't an air-conditioned hearing room, I should say, committee room. 
   As the first testimony unfolded, Mr. Speaker, about global warming, it was  a lot easier to convince Members of Congress that that could be a problem when they were sitting in that 100-degrees-feels-like temperature with the high humidity in the committee room here in Washington. 
   You know, this kind of weather is the reason there is an August break. Why, as far back as our founders, they went home, and they tried to find some high ground where there was a breeze because they didn't have air conditioning, but August was used about 20, 25 years ago to kick off global warming. 
   We know that there has been a long debate since then and that the foundation for that science is in question. There are some 31,000 trained scientists who have signed off on a petition that says, ``We don't buy the science of global warming.'' Now, I don't know that you can find very many people on the street, Mr. Speaker, who really understand the science of the idea of global warming--I can surely find plenty who disagree--but I think, when you're going to do something that alters the state of our economy and the state of our culture and the global economy and the global culture in this fashion, then the proof has got to be on the people who want to make the changes and who want to shut down energy and energy access and energy production. 
   What's going on in this Congress, Mr. Speaker, is what has followed from that hearing those more than two decades ago. It's a belief that, when you use energy, it puts greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Greenhouse gases warm the Earth. It's a belief and not proof that a warmer Earth, in all categories, is bad for humanity. The people who are so concerned about global warming are not the kind of people who draw a line down through the middle of the paper on their legal pads and who write on one side ``these are the things that are bad about global warming'' and, on the other side of that line, in the center, ``these are the things that are good.'' 
   No, Mr. Speaker. This is all a one-sided argument. In their minds, everything that has to do with the Earth--and it is very marginally, statistically, warming up. We don't know whether there's an increase in sun spots or whether there's a little bit of increase in greenhouse gases. Whatever the case, in their analysis, if the Earth warms by a degree, it's always bad in every case. Even when the Earth gets colder in certain places, it's still the fault of global warming because, after all, it's the average of the temperature; it's not the extremes that we should be looking at. 
   Last winter was one of the coldest winters we've had. We see the dynamics in the weather extremes. As to those dynamics, by some of the weather forecasters, they say that it's not because the Earth is warmer but because the Earth is cooling in certain locations that we're seeing more extreme weather. 
   In any case, this is not conclusive. Yet there are many people over on this side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, who have concluded that we should shut down energy consumption, that we should slow it down, back it down. Park your car. Park your SUV. Maybe even park your Prius because, right now, if you plug it into an outlet with a plug and you charge it up with electricity that was generated from coal, you're driving a coal-fired automobile down the highway. So they're saying park all of that. Get on your bicycle and ride your bicycle. If you do that, then it will slow down the greenhouse gas emissions. If that happens, it will save the planet for our children and grandchildren. Whatever the price is to our economy, to our way of life, to our culture, and whatever it does to shut down the economy, in their minds, it is all worth it.     
   That's what we're working with here. 
   On our side of the aisle, we're saying we need more energy. We're arguing that, in all forms of energy, we need to provide more of it, that high prices slow down our economy. 
   Everything we do takes energy, whether you're delivering Pampers or Pablum, or whether you're delivering French wine to the restaurants here in downtown Washington, D.C., it takes energy to do that. When that energy costs more money, everything costs more money. We say, let's put more Btus on the market of all kinds. When there's a huge supply, you'll see the demand doesn't meet the supply and prices go down until the demand meets the supply. That's something we understand over here. It's something that seems to be beyond the comprehension over here. 
   That's what's up, Mr. Speaker. And I think we need to articulate this over and over again until the American people understand. There is one side of this argument that has pushed for more energy. And we passed a number of bills in the last several Congresses, passed them out of the floor of this House and over to the Senate. If they had not been blocked over there by extreme environmentalists that had an ability to put a hold on a bill, that had an ability to filibuster, many of the pieces of legislation that expand our energy would already be law, and 6 or 8 or more years ago we would have started to open up places like the Outer Continental Shelf, non-national park public lands. 
   We passed pad drilling in ANWR some years ago. We would have oil coming out of that pipeline up there today from ANWR if we had just signed it into law the day it was passed out of the House of Representatives. 
   That's some of the backdrop, Mr. Speaker, on the energy issue. And I know that when you go to a place and you're looking for people that know something about energy, the first place you would go in the United States of America would be Texas. And I'm not sure it would be east Texas, but that's where I want to go, to the gentleman from east Texas, Mr. Louie Gohmert, and yield so much time as he may consume. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Texas. 
   And as I listened to your presentation, reclaiming my time, just going down through a list of some of the things that jumped out at me, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, to tap into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, as the gentleman from Texas said, at a time when Iran has threatened to close the Straits of Hormuz. And through that closed strait comes 42.6 percent of the world's export oil supply. That isn't just the valve through which 42.6 percent of the world's export oil supply goes. That valve, if they turn it down, let alone turn it off, that shuts down the world economy. It nearly shuts off the world economy, and the dynamics of everything we do change dramatically. That's why in past decades we have had the United States Navy in there to keep those straits open during times of crisis because that is the pressure point in the world for the world's economy. If they follow through on this, and there is a relatively unstable leader in Iran, they shut down the straits and we drain out our Strategic Petroleum Reserve, what are our alternatives? Hard-core rationing, and even then we get down to the point where we don't have the fuel for our own military and the scenario of how the Battle of the Bulge was won by Americans instead of won by the Germans falls into play. We won't have the gas. We won't have the gas for our military. We won't have the gas for our economy. We won't have the juice. This is not the time to drain down the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. It's a political ploy on this side of the aisle. That's, I think, clear to all of us. 
   And, Mr. Speaker, the statement with ``use it or lose it,'' the argument that we have oil companies that have leases that are not being drilled upon, that's another one of those red herring arguments. And if we were serious about this, if we really thought the oil companies weren't developing leases that are on lands, they're just not developing dry holes. That's why those leases that are not drilled aren't drilled on yet. And if we would allow them to trade out those acres, 1 good acre for 5 bad ones, you would find out what the good land was and what the bad land was, what the good leases are and what the bad leases are. That would be my proposal, but that's not what happened here because we had to do another red herring. We had to stand up another strawman and make another argument because the American people aren't going to tolerate very long a Congress that refuses to act to open up energy. 
   The belief that tightening down the energy supply, see gas prices go up. If gas prices go up, people burn less. If people burn less, the god of sky is happy. Mother Earth is happy. 
   Human beings suffer. Grandmothers aren't going to get on their bicycles in January in Iowa and ride them down the gravel road 7 miles to town. That's how far it is for me to go to town, and it isn't all gravel, but the first mile is. It doesn't work for us. We can't drive those little Priuses either because the most recent time I had to shift my SUV into four-wheel drive to get home was still in April when the roads were soft and the frost was going out. So it's not an option for us unless we have a summer car and a winter car, a fair weather car and a foul weather vehicle. No, people in my part of the neighborhood drive the vehicles they do because that's what's necessary to get the job done. And a lot of those vehicles are farm pickups that are doing work every day. 
   There's a whole different mindset going on. And the reason that the people who represent the blue zones, the inner cities, the ones who hold the gavels in this Congress today, can get by with higher energy prices, one of those reasons is because the people buying gas in places like Texas and Iowa, and it's a long ways between towns in Texas, further than it is in Iowa, the people buying that gas that are going from town to town and doing the things they need to do to maintain their life-style and their businesses are paying 18.4 a gallon Federal tax and a lot of States have 20 or more cents on that to maintain the roads, and 17 percent of the Federal gas tax goes to mass transit. And so the people that are voting, the inner-city people that are voting for the folks that are environmental extremists that refuse to allow the energy development in America, our own energy, those people are subsidized by the folks that are buying gas. And their ticket to get on the metro down here at South Capitol and ride out to Falls Church is about a buck and a quarter. It would be a lot more than that if they had to buy the whole price of the metro. And a ticket on the subway in New York is cheaper than it would be if they had to pay the full fair cost for travel, and a ticket on the ``L'' in Chicago and the cable car in San Francisco, those transits by my measure are all subsidized by the people who are buying gas. And the constituents who allow their Members of Congress to drive up these prices are going to push us gas buyers to the point where we say, ``I'm not going to subsidize your mass transit anymore on my gas dollar. You pay for your own ticket.'' That's going to happen too in this Congress, and that will be when they squeal. And then they'll say, well, gas is too high; let's have some more energy. 
   Here's what has happened during the Pelosi Congress. This was going to be the Congress that was the most open in history, by the way. I think it's the most closed in history. It was going to be the most effective and hardest-working Congress in history. Well, it's sure not open, and, Mr. Speaker, it's sure not effective. And, additionally, we still haven't passed an appropriations bill as late in history as that has ever happened. And this cheaper gas price that was promised if we would just hand the gavel to Nancy Pelosi and apply her San Francisco values to all of America, we would have this wonderful world where everybody got along and gas would be cheaper. That was the promise. We are going to get you cheaper gas, cheaper than it was than Nancy Pelosi, the Speaker, took the gavel. 
   Here's what gas prices were when President Bush was sworn in, Mr. Speaker: $1.49. And it slowly crept up. And in about this area, we passed energy legislation, and it went over to the Senate, where the Democrats in the Senate filibustered our energy legislation that would have put many more Btus of energy into our marketplace. They said no. That blocked the smart legislation that came out of the House. And when that happened, prices of energy went up. And they went up to all of $2.33 a gallon for gasoline on the day that the new Speaker took the gavel here just behind me, $2.33, and gas prices were going to get cheaper. And here is what the promise results in. Now, it's fallen off a little bit more in the last week or so: $4.08, I saw $4.10, $4.11, more than that on the board in other places. But gas taking a leap like that, and why? Because there's less energy on the market, not more; because the people that 
   are hedging because they need to have diesel fuel and gasoline see the supply that's there and they see that it's going to be harder to develop energy in the United States because of folks in this Congress in their majority won't let it happen. 
   We say drill everything, drill it now, produce more energy of all kinds, drill  ANWR, drill the Outer Continental Shelf, drill the nonnational park public lands. As Mr. Gohmert said, open up the Green River shale oil and go into that massive amount, 800 billion barrels, maybe a trillion barrels that are there; go in and get that natural gas in that huge find in Hainesville. Do all of those things. Produce more of every form of energy that we have. 
   The argument that we can't go to the Outer Continental Shelf and drill because it's environmentally unfriendly, Mr. Gohmert spoke about how that's the place where you go if you want to go fishing out there is to the oil platform because in the shade of the structure is a place where the fish congregate. So it has been better. There are places where they sink ships out in the ocean because it's fish habitat. Well, the structure of the ship is structure for fish. The structure of an oil platform is structure for fish. And there was at least one oil platform that was torn loose during Hurricane Katrina that blew 60 miles across the ocean, and it went up near shore near Mobile, Alabama. No leak, but a platform that was pushed 60 miles by a terrible storm. But they are set up now with the kind of connections that if they're torn loose, there are not leaks. And we have met this technology. 
   The North Slope of Alaska is essentially identical topography and identical environment to that of ANWR. They're right next door. It's like Nebraska and Iowa or Iowa and Illinois, and that's how the difference is between North Slope and ANWR. Well, the habitat for wildlife in the North Slope, after we went up and built the pipeline, has done about the same thing, maybe even better, than the platforms out in the gulf coast. In that the count in the caribou herd in the North Slope in 1970 was 7,000 caribou, 7,000 head of caribou walking around out there in that frozen tundra. For a couple months out of the year when the sun shines 24 hours a day, it thaws the permafrost down a foot to 18 inches. Sloppy old tundra in there. And those caribou that were 7,000 caribou in 1970 today are over 28,000 head of caribou. 
   Why is that? Well, one environmentalist said to me when I made that point, well, of course there are more caribou today. That's because the people that went up and worked on the pipeline shot all the wolves. That was their natural enemy. Now, I would not have come up with that. But this is what I can tell you, Mr. Speaker: 
   I was signed up to go up on that pipeline, and they had to pay good money to get a man to go up there and work in that climate, not just 80-below temperatures sometimes, though real men can do that, but the rules were this: First of all, there were no women allowed; so you're going to lose some of these men who don't want to go someplace where there are no women. It's tough for me. And the second thing was no gambling. The third thing was no booze. And the fourth thing was no guns. No women, no gambling, no booze, and no guns. That's why they had to pay such big money to get somebody to go work in 80-below temperatures. That was some of the worst of it. Most of it wasn't that bad. 
   So the reality is that if there were no guns up there and nobody shot any of the wolves and that isn't why the caribou herd increased, they increased because they had a nice dry spot where they could have their calves, not down in the ice water in the frozen tundra. 
   I yield to the gentleman from Texas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Reclaiming my time, I thank the gentleman from Texas. Yes, the polar bears are doing well, and they are probably dining on a seal diet. They'll eat caribou. They'll eat anything they can get their paws on. That's what a bear does. And 28,000 head caribou herd up there on the North Slope. 
   But there is no resident caribou herd in ANWR next door. There's a migratory herd that comes in in the spring from Canada. They come in and have their calves there, and when the calves get to where they can walk, they all walk back to Canada. So it's a kind of a maternity ward for caribou there in ANWR. But no one can come up with any reason why they would stop coming over to have their calves or think that it would hurt their population. It would probably help their population because they like to get up out of that cold, frozen water and the tundra and get up on something kind of high and let the breeze blow the flies away and have their calves up there where they have a better chance of survival. 
   Another gentleman that has come to the floor to address this issue is one of the three judges from the State of Texas, and they all come here from Texas knowing something about the law and something about energy. 
   I would be happy to yield to Judge Carter, the gentleman from Texas.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Texas, one of the outstanding judges from Texas, Judge Carter, and my wing man on the Judiciary Committee for 4 years, and my voice of reason as well. 
   This is a chart that was far harder to put together than it should have been. This should have been something that a simple little e-mail down to the office would have produced. You would think that when you ask a question, What is the energy production in the United States, what are all of its sources, and put it altogether and put it into the common denominator of Btus. Well, it didn't quite work that way because we don't measure electricity in Btu's. We measure it in kilowatts or megawatts, and sometimes coal doesn't give you that measurement either. 
   So we got some help from some people and this chart is the energy pie chart, I call it. Each one of these different colors here is a different source of energy. And so I will take us around. 
   This is the energy we produce in the United States. Overall, this is the number: 72.1 quadrillion Btus. Here's the number down here. That is 15 zeroes or so. But we will get to the meaning of that number here in a moment. 
   When I go around the horn and I start with gasoline, gasoline that is produced the United States amounts to 8.28 percent of the overall energy production in the United States. Then you go to diesel fuel and heating oil. That is 4.20 percent. Kerosene and jet fuel together is 1.57. Less than I thought it would be. Other petroleum products, heavy oil, those things, 4.8 percent. 
   Now there's a big piece here, the natural gas. The natural gas that Judge Carter talked about. Roughly 27 1/2 percent of the overall energy that we produce is natural gas. Coal is 32 1/2 percent of the overall Btu's. Nuclear, 11.66. Maybe bigger than most folks would think. We got to hydroelectric, which Judge Carter mentioned. Out of all our energy production, hydroelectric is 3.41 percent overall. 
   Then you get to these tiny little pieces here. We want to do all of these things, as Judge Carter said. We want to do them all. 
   Now we are getting down to the list of the things that the folks on this side of the aisle will do. Here they are. They will be okay maybe with geothermal as long as they don't have to watch it happen because they can't stand the thought of seeing a drill rig punch a hole down to turn the heat back. But once it's over, it's kind of okay. 
   Wind. Well, they don't like wind so good. If TEDDY KENNEDY can see it, they don't want it. But out in Texas it's probably all right. T. Boone Pickens said this is one problem we can't drill our way out of. Well, I believe that may be true, but it's also a problem we can't get out of without drilling. That is what I would add to the gentleman's wisdom. Here's solar, at .11 percent. 
   Here are the three sources of energy that are not objectionable to environmentalists, geothermal, wind, and solar, and they represent just a little bit more than 1 percent of the overall energy production in America, and that is what they would expand that into the entire energy supply for America. 
   These tiny little slivers here that are so small, you don't even get a color in there. It's just the line, the black line. Expand those into the whole circle and let the rest of this wither and die on the vine. Because if we drill an oil well, it's going to reach maximum production pretty quickly. From there on, it's statistically a little bit less oil on a daily basis until it finally dries up. We have got to keep exploring. 
   Same with natural gas. These wells don't last forever. They don't get bigger, better. They get to be a little lesser. With coal, you have got to keep opening coal mines. You can't be closing the uranium, by the way, or our nuclear will slowly get shut down. 
   There's the little sliver they would have, geothermal, wind and solar. But the rest of us, we would expand all of this, and I include with that ethanol, biodiesel, biomass. All of that source of energy needs to be expanded because I have the chart that shows not just the energy production in the United States, but the energy consumption compared to it, and it is actually the more interesting of the two charts, Mr. Speaker. 
   This chart shows the outside circle is the energy consumption in the United States. I showed you the number before, 72.1 quadrillion Btus of production, 101.4 quadrillion Btus of consumption. This circle in the middle is our production circle. The outside is our consumption circle. This inner circle is 72 percent of the outer circle. 
   So, however we want to measure this, we need to grow more natural gas so it comes out to the width of the outer circle. We need to grow more coal production, more nuclear production, more gasoline over here, and on and on with the diesel fuel, jet fuel, et cetera. 
   This inner circle, which is the energy production in the United States, has got to grow up to match up with the outer circle, which is energy consumption. If we do that, we are energy independent, however you measure it. 
   Now, I'd change the proportion of these slices of the pie. I would use a lot less natural gas to general electricity because it's a finite source and I'd rather see it go to manufacturing, where natural gas is the mother's milk of manufacturing. I'd rather see it go to fertilizer. We have nearly lost the fertilizer industry in American because natural gas has been pushed to high. 
   I would change the proportions and the priorities and I'd produce a lot more nuclear because we can and we should and it's environmentally friendly and it's the safest source of energy that there is on the one planet. The French produce 78 percent of their electricity with nuclear. Ours is 8.29--actually, 11.66 percent of our production and 8.29 percent of our overall consumption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Texas. I would add to that that the free market solutions that we have, they constantly adjust. If government gets out of the way, the demand will create the supply, and when the supply gets to be oversupply, then the price comes down. 
   Instead, we have people that have their hands on the gavel that don't believe in free market economy. They never sat down and read through Adam Smith's ``Wealth of Nations'' word-for-word and understood it. They don't live to appreciate it. They think there are a handful of intellectual elitists in the world that can manage the economy. 
   We have had two Members of this Congress that have called out for nationalization of at least part of our oil industry or all of our oil industry. One of them, the gentleman from New York, called for the nationalization of our oil refineries. In other words, that word doesn't fit too good with Americans, but it happens in places like Venezuela, and it happened in Libya to the Hunt brothers with their oil fields. Nationalization means the United States Government would take over the oil refineries and run them. 
   One other Member, the gentlewoman from California, argued that we should nationalize the entire oil industry in the United States, run that with the government. 
   I wonder, where does this come from? Where I come from, we are steeped in free enterprise. We are steeped in free market capitalization. We understand that ambition and the desire and need for profit has done more for the standard of living of all humanity than all the missionaries that ever went anywhere. And God love the missionaries for all they have done, but it has been the desire for profit that has driven our technology, in math and science and in the oil industry and in information technology. 
   It wasn't done because some intellectual elitist was sitting somewhere and decided let's invent a software package and a microchip and an oil drill rig and a derrick and a platform and a refinery. That was done because there was profit in it, and some good, solid, smart people put capital together and they worked hard and took risks and our lives got better. 
   There is a book that I read years ago called ``Trashing the Planet'' by Dixie Lee Ray, former Governor of the State of Washington. She since has passed away. She served one term out there, as I recall. 
   She starts the book out about how in 1900 the world was a very smelly and dirty and dangerous place, and she writes about how horses were going up and down in the streets, and they didn't wear diapers like they do in Central Park in those days. They left their mess behind them. The garbage got dumped out the window. 
   There was a time there in transition when a gentleman walked on the inside, away from the curb, so when the garbage got dumped out, it landed on him instead of the lady. Then, after a while, it got to be where the vehicles were splashing water up, so the gentleman walked on the curbside instead of the building side. That is how the culture changed. 
   We didn't have clean water and we didn't have clean air and we didn't have modern medicine, and she wrote about how we took a step up and new technology came, every new invention improved the standard of living and the quality of life on average of all Americans, and, in fact, most people in the world. 
   I read that book next to, side-by-side, simultaneous with Al Gore's book ``Earth in the Balance.'' It was quite a thing to see the difference between the good, solid, commonsense of Dixie Lee Ray, that was full of footnotes and references, a very respectable, scholarly work, compared to the work of ``Earth in the Balance,'' that I didn't find a footnote, and I found quotes from a respected politician, a noted public figure, but not even names. 
   So we are always better off with technology. Energy produces more technology, cheaper, and lets our economy flow. If we decide we are going to shut down, say, the coal mines here in the United States, shut down the oil drilling and for natural gas or for our crude oil, and, by the way, in the last 25 years, our oil rigs have gone from 4,500 of them operating and working in the United States down to 2,000 is all. Only six rigs working in Alaska. Only six up there in that huge oil. 
   So we need more energy so that we can have a more effective economy. That is the bottom line. We believe in free market capitalization. We believe in supply and demand. We believe that if there is more demand, there will be more supply created, if government gets out of the way. 
   You folks all believe get in the way and then drag a straw man out and a red herring and say, well, we will take some oil out of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, or we will say ``use it or lose it.'' The American people know better. 
   I yield to the gentleman from Texas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the judge and the judges from Texas. It has been a big help to me and a boost to hear  your insight on this energy issue. I intend to continue to turn this up and do all I can to open it up. 
   I am tired of $4 gas. The American people are tired of $4 gas. They know that this if Congress shuts down energy, the price will go higher, not lower, and it is up to us. We have got discharge petitions down here that many, many Members have signed. When we get to 218, they will come to the floor, whether it is blocked by the Speaker or not. That is one of the key pieces of this. 
   I also wanted to add, first I will go back and recap this energy pie piece. The inside circle is energy production in America. The outside circle is energy consumption in America. The colored components of this, blue is gas production; diesel fuel is red; and you have got the yellow is natural gas; the kind of orange is coal; green is nuclear; and then you get hydroelectric is this little sliver right here in that faded lavender color. 
   But when you go around the corner and you ask the question, can we bring more biomass into this equation, environmentalists say no, you are burning wood and stuff, so you are polluting the atmosphere with the emissions from burning cellulose. So you can't do that. 
   Well, we get to diesel fuel and gasoline. We surely can't do that, because that comes from an oil well. That is a crude oil product. You can't do jet fuel, you can't do heavy oils, because that is all petroleum out of a well product. Here is natural gas. You can't do that. That is Outer Continental Shelf. They don't want to create fish habitat out there with those oil platforms. 
   And the idea for some people in Florida that out there at 199 miles away from shore we might punch a oil or natural gas well down and somebody might not come to Florida and sit on the beach because there was once a drill rig 199 miles away and now there is a platform that might even be underwater, that can't be seen? That has about as much sense as somebody sitting on Iowa's border with Missouri in a lawn chair saying, I don't like the idea there could be somebody with a drill rig up there in Southern Minnesota, right across the line. Same distance, 200 miles north to south. 
   Why is anybody worried about a drill rig 200 miles offshore of Florida? They can't see it from the beach. 
   Chris Columbus, remember, said that is how he figured out the Earth was round. He saw the mast of the ship first as it got closer. He figured the Earth was curved, because you should have seen all the ship at once if it were flat. 
   We have to grow the size of this energy pie, Mr. Speaker. All of these things are off the table from environmentalists: No more natural gas, no coal, no more nuclear. Hydroelectric, we surely couldn't stop the water in a river and save a flood, like Cedar Rapids, Iowa, or Iowa City, Iowa, in the process. No, we can't have any more of that. All we can have more of is geothermal, wind and biodiesel. They represent approximately 1 percent of the overall energy, the overall energy production in America, and they are only 0.74 percent of the overall consumption in America. 
   So clearly something has to change. The American people will not tolerate expensive gas, as long as there is a logical, commonsense solution. We know what that is. We have talked about what that is, Mr. Speaker, and I call upon the Speaker of the House to let these energy bills come forward for votes and let the American people see where everybody stands in this Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (PROVIDING FOR PATENT AND TRADEMARK JUDICIAL APPOINTMENTS -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself so much time as I may consume. I rise in support of S. 3295, and I urge the House to adopt the bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, 9 years ago Congress enacted the American Inventors Protection Act as part of a larger intellectual property and telecommunications reform measure. Among its many provisions, this law confers a measure of autonomy on the Patent and Trademark Office. At the time, inventors, trademark owners, and Members of Congress believed the agency would function more efficiently if it were allowed greater operational freedom. In fact, some of the earliest drafts of the legislation, dating back to the early and mid-1990s, sought to transform the Patent and Trademark Office into a public corporation. 
   Consistent with this goal, the 1999 law enhances the authority of the Patent and Trademark Office Director to oversee agency affairs. This includes empowering the Director, not the Secretary of Commerce, to appoint administrative law judges serving on the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences, as well as the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board. 
   Unfortunately, this small and seemingly innocuous change may very well violate an obscure provision of the United States Constitution, the so-called ``appointments clause.'' That's article II, section 2, which enumerates the powers of the President, including the right to appoint various judges, ministers, and other government officials. The last portion of the clause states that ``Congress may ..... vest the appointment of such inferior officers, as they think proper, in the President alone, in the courts of law, or in the heads of departments.'' 
   In other words, a straightforward reading of article II, section 2, which I strongly endorse, suggests the 1999 authority that Congress bestowed on the Patent and Trademark Office Director to appoint administrative law judges is unconstitutional, inconsistent with article II, section 2. Instead, this right is more properly reserved for the head of the relevant department, the Secretary of Commerce, because the Patent and Trademark Office remains an agency within Commerce. 
   But what does this mean as a practical matter? Why it is a problem? The answer lies in the number of judges appointed since the 1999 law took effect.     
   Of the 81 judges serving on the two boards, 50 were appointed by the Patent and Trademark Office Director under his new authority. Those judges have rendered hundreds of decisions, all of which may be constitutionally suspect if challenged. And that is already happening in one case, the Translogic Technologies versus Dudas case, which is pending before the Supreme Court. 
   This body knows how important intellectual property is to our national economy. With all the other problems plaguing the patent system, the last thing we need is a crisis that reopens settled legal disputes. This isn't fair to the litigants, especially those who won, and it places rights and fair access to inventions in limbo. 
   The solution we must adopt is S. 3295. The bill transfers the authority to appoint administrative law judges from the Patent and Trademark Office Director to the Secretary of Commerce and makes it consistent with article II, section 2 of the Constitution. 
   The legislation also adopts two features developed by the Patent and Trademark Office and the Department of Justice. One empowers the Secretary to ``deem'' or ratify all the appointments made by the PTO Director under the 1999 law. The other creates a ``de facto officer'' defense to any challenge made to the appointment of a patent or trademark administrative law judge.  Pursuant to the defense, the acts of a public officer performed under color of authority are considered valid and immune from collateral attack. Born of policy and necessity, the defense protects the interests and reasonable expectations of the public who must rely on the presumptively valid acts of public officials. 
   In closing, we must enact S. 3295 much sooner rather than later to avert a potential litigation crisis that would prove wasteful, unnecessary, and unfair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (SUPPORTING NATIONAL NIGHT OUT -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself so much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, on August 5, 2008, thousands of communities and millions of individuals will once again participate in National Night Out. It's an annual event created to raise community awareness of and participation in local crime-fighting programs and organizations. 
   H. Res. 1324 calls on the administration to coordinate Federal efforts to participate in this nation-wide campaign as well as other community crime-prevention initiatives. 
   In 1984, the National Association of Town Watch, NATW, decided the 5 to 7 percent of neighborhood residents actively involved in their local crime watch and prevention programs was just not enough. It was out of that concern that a National Night Out was born. Since then, it has been the mission of the National Association of Town Watch and National Night Out to promote and increase the membership of these local crime-fighting initiatives and organizations, to strengthen police community relationships, and to send a message to criminals that neighborhoods and communities are united in their fight against crime. 
   This year's event will celebrate a National Night Out's 25th anniversary. Since its creation, the event, which began with 2.5 million Americans in 23 States illuminating their homes, has expanded its participation to 35.4 million in all 50 States. And the traditional ``lights on'' has grown to include block parties, neighborhood walks, police meetings, cookouts, and parades. 
   Unfortunately, crime has found its way into even the safest of neighborhoods. And while our law enforcement officials play a tremendous role in fighting this criminal activity, united communities committed to crime-prevention awareness is essential to this ongoing fight. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (SUPPORTING NATIONAL NIGHT OUT -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself so much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the remarks made by the gentleman that came to the floor. As I listened to Mr. Poe and his remarks, I come from an entirely different environment. I do a little inventory, and within a mile radius of my house there are four houses, and that's all, perhaps, in limit of a mile. Not only do we know who drives down our road and where they're going, if the ambulance comes by, we know who's in it. It's a very thinly populated rural area, but we have a neighborhood. 
   And when I come to Washington, D.C., where my wife and I maintain a residence, we live in a neighborhood. And neighborhoods are similar whether they're in the city or whether they're in the country because you need to get to know each other. And a National Night Out is a way to do that. And when we get to know each other, that opens up our communications. And when we open up our communications, we provide the intelligence that supports our law enforcement so that we can fight crime in a direct effective fashion. That's the essence of the reason that I support this resolution, and I urge its adoption.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (APOLOGIZING FOR THE ENSLAVEMENT AND RACIAL SEGREGATION OF AFRICAN-AMERICANS -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 194 appropriately reminds us of the horrors of slavery. Slavery was a stain on our original Constitution. It took the blood of hundreds of thousands of Americans who died in the Civil War to erase that stain and to pave the way for passage of the Civil War amendments to our Constitution. We must never forget that. 
   This resolution exhorts us not to repeat the mistakes of the past. I would like to address two of those mistakes in some of this time. 
   One of the clauses of this resolution notes that after emancipation from 246 years of slavery, African Americans soon saw the fleeting political, social and economic gains they made during Reconstruction eviscerated by virulent racism and lynching. 
   It is worth noting in that regard that the government's campaign against the Ku Klux Klan during the Reconstruction Era included the use of military commissions approved by Congress to try those vicious terrorists of the day. Klan terrorists disguised in plain clothes embarked on a campaign of terror that included lynchings, assassinations and even the disemboweling of their innocent victims. 
   The experience, Mr. Speaker, of that period, presaged the dangers of extending habeas corpus litigation rights to enemy terrorists today. The campaign to defeat the Klan collapsed during the Reconstruction Era when Klansmen asserted habeas litigation rights in Federal court against their captors. 
   As one historian has written, the result of the required legal release of the Klan was that Klansmen not only escaped punishment, they turned the law on their erstwhile prosecutors with a series of suits and harassments that drove some of them from the State as fugitives. No sooner had Colonel George W. Kirk, the local commander, brought his prisoners to Raleigh, then two of them sued him for false arrest. He was released on bond and returned to his command, while other similar suits accumulated against him. In effect, he became a refugee from process servers and sheriffs, protected by his own soldiers. 
   I fear the Supreme Court has repeated that mistake today by granting terrorists habeas litigation rights to challenge their detentions in Federal Court. Resolutions like the one we consider now help to remind the Nation of the mistakes of the past so they will not be repeated in the future. 
   This resolution also expresses a commitment to rectifying the lingering consequences of the misdeeds committed against African Americans under slavery and Jim Crow. Those misdeeds, of course, were premised in the notion that people should be treated differently on account of their race. 
   One the most significant civil rights developments out of the 2006 elections was passage of the Michigan Civil Rights Initiative, an amendment to the Michigan State Constitution that passed by a wide margin, 58 percent to 42 percent. The Civil Rights Initiative in relevant part reads simply, and I have heard Ward Connerly make this statement in person and it booms from his voice and it reaches my heart, Mr. Speaker. It says, ``The State shall not discriminate against or grant preferential treatment to any individual or group on the basis of race, sex, color, ethnicity or national origin in the operation of public employment, public education or public contracting.'' Similar efforts are underway in Arizona, Colorado, Missouri, Nebraska and Oklahoma. This resolution reminds us all that American government should operate on a color-blind basis. 
   As I read through this resolution, I pick out some pieces that don't fit my sense of history. I would add that the Civil War is often taught to being fought over slavery. The people on the south side of the Mason Dixon Line would say it was fought over States' rights. I would say among those States' rights was the argument that the Southern States could declare their policy with regard to slavery. 
   Slavery has put a scar upon the United States that was a component of history as it arrived here, and it has been a component of most of the history within the continents. It has not, as it says here, imposed a rigid system of officially sanctioned racial segregation in virtually all areas of life. Subsequent to the Civil War and the emancipation, there were many areas in the North that were integrated, socially, economically, with a heart to do so, and I think they deserve some credit here as well, Mr. Speaker. 
   The vestiges of Jim Crow law today, I hope we learn what they are. The one I can think of is the Davis-Bacon wage scale. That is a vestige of Jim Crow. I can't think of the others. 
   I do appreciate the language that says, ``However long the journey, our destiny is set: Liberty and justice for all,'' and I mean that sincerely. And as this resolution apologizes to African Americans, I would correct that and say that there are many African Americans in this country who are immigrants from other countries, and they do very well here in America. They haven't felt the same sense as those who are descended from slaves that lived in this country. So I would say this resolution more speaks to the descendants of slaves and those being in this country exclusively African Americans. 
   I would add that there are some missing components altogether. I brought this book because I think it puts some more perspective on this as well, Mr. Speaker. This is a book written by Robert Davis, ``Christian Slaves, Muslim Masters.'' He is a professor, I believe, at Ohio State University. 
   I have read this carefully. It grips my soul like this subject grips my soul. It tells the story of 1.25 million Christian slaves hijacked on the seas of the Mediterranean who were subjected to slavery and forced to build the edifices along the Barbary Coast and the northern coast of Africa. They don't have descendants because they were worked to death and dumped overboard from the corsairs, those who pulled on the oars instead of built the edifices. Some of the women were pushed into being concubines. But, for the most part, this is very instructive. It says many of us are descended of relatives of slaves, but there are no descendants from these slaves because they didn't survive. That is 1.25 million. 
   So I think that in this context, this Nation is rising above this debate, and I would like to think we have put this debate behind us. I know that Chairman Conyers knows my head and my heart on this, and I have spoken about how deeply it has affected me to walk into a church in Port Gibson, Mississippi, and look up to the balcony and see that that balcony was made for African Americans, while white people went to church downstairs on the ground floor. It is hard for me to fathom a faith that would recognize a division like that, Mr. Speaker. 
   I know also that Abraham Lincoln spoke to this subject matter, and perhaps I will come back to that. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (APOLOGIZING FOR THE ENSLAVEMENT AND RACIAL SEGREGATION OF AFRICAN-AMERICANS -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   As I listened to this debate, Mr. Speaker, I looked back through some documents that I made sure that I could take a look at before I came to floor, and one of them is H. Res. 1237. That is a resolution that passed here on 18 June 2008. And that date is timely, because it recognizes in the House of Representatives President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, but it recognizes especially Juneteenth, the date upon which the last slaves were freed. And that was roughly about 2 years from the time that President Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation. And it takes me to this point that I think is an important discussion. 
   This is a piece of information that I gathered from a Washington historian, and I qualify it a little bit because I haven't gone back and Googled it, I haven't checked Wikipedia, but I like this story so much that I want to tell it as qualified in that fashion, from a respectable Washington historian, but this way: 
   When President Lincoln was considering signing the Emancipation Proclamation, he reportedly called his cabinet together. They sat around the cabinet table, and President Lincoln laid out his argument that he wanted to emancipate the slaves. And so as he made the argument, the men--it would have all been men sitting around the cabinet table then in 1863. He turned to the first cabinet member and said, ``What say you?'' The first cabinet member reportedly said, ``Mr. President, you can't free the slaves. Those who are under your control and authority and jurisdiction are already free; they are north of the Mason-Dixon Line. Those on the other side, you can't reach because they are protected by the Confederate Army.'' 
   And Lincoln turned to the next cabinet man and said, ``What say you?'' The next cabinet member said, ``Mr. President, I would suggest that there are men fighting in Union uniforms today that aren't so enthusiastic about ending slavery. They really want to defend the North and they want to defend the colors that we have, but there are really some racists in the Army. So you are going to lose their support if you emancipate the slaves.'' 
   And he went to the next cabinet member and the next cabinet member, and each one came up with a different argument. As it came around the table, every single cabinet member had said to President Lincoln, ``Mr. President, do not sign the Emancipation Proclamation. My advice to you is there isn't enough upside to offset the downside.'' Or, as we say today, the juice is not worth the squeeze. 
   President Lincoln reportedly said, ``Well, gentlemen, the aye has it,'' and signed the Emancipation Proclamation. 
   Now whether that story is true or not, and I know there are a lot of urban legends around Lincoln, I really love that story, because that shows the character and the quality of leadership that we had in the White House at that time, and also a man who gave his life for the emancipation of the slaves. A man who believed it. A man who had such a strong conviction that when I  stand at the Lincoln Memorial and I read the words of President Lincoln's second inaugural address that say, ``Yet, if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled up by the bondsmen's 250 years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword, as was said 3,000 years ago, so still it must be said `the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether.' '' 
   Abraham Lincoln's second inaugural address, the central part being: If the price to be paid was until every drop of blood drawn by the bondsmen's lash be paid by another drawn with the sword, Mr. Speaker, that is the powerful vision that there was a sin on this Nation, and Abraham Lincoln understood that. And 600,000 Americans died in the conflict to free the slaves. 
   I brought with me, this is my great, great, five times great uncle's Bible. This is the Bible that he carried in his shirt pocket for 3 years during the Civil War. If I open it up, I can show you fly specs and verses that are written in this Bible. His sister presented to it to him on the eve of his departure for the war, and he returned with it in his shirt pocket 3 years to the day. I found his grave when I was trimming grass around the gravestones for Memorial Day. No one knew where he had been buried. This is John Richardson's Bible. My great grandfather five times great was killed in the Civil War. All of his artifacts are lost. This remains. This remains as a connection to me, to my family members who were strong and powerful and committed abolitionists, and some of them gave their lives to free the slaves. 
   So as I read this resolution today, Mr. Speaker, I don't see a reference of gratitude for all the blood that was given by people to end slavery. I think that needs to be part of this record as well. The horrible price that was paid to pay back in blood drawn by the sword for every drop of blood drawn by the bondsmen's lash. That is a point, too, that the next generations need to learn and need to hear. 
   And then with the balance of this discussion, Mr. Speaker, I just would emphasize that this Nation threw off the yoke of slavery. We rose above it because we had a strong conviction as a people, we had a strong religious faith that rejected slavery as a sin against this Nation. We can be proud of the price that was paid to free the slaves. And it was a struggle of 100 years to pass the Civil Rights Act that lifted another level. And here we are today at a point where I look forward to the time when we can say we are fully integrated and there is no vestige of slavery and no vestige of racism, and an understanding that we are all God's children created in his image. And because he has blessed us with enough distinctions that we can tell each other apart, it is no reason for us to discriminate for or against anyone, as Ward Connerly says and as the Civil Rights Initiative in Michigan says so. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (UNITED STATES PAROLE COMMISSION EXTENSION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself so much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S. 3294, the United States Parole Commission Extension Act of 2008. 
   This bipartisan legislation will extend the authorization of the United States Parole Commission for an additional 3 years. 
   Judiciary Committee Chairman JOHN CONYERS and Ranking Member LAMAR SMITH introduced the House version of this bill earlier this month. Crime Subcommittee Chairman BOBBY SCOTT and Ranking Member LOUIE GOHMERT also joined as cosponsors. 
   The Parole Commission is an independent agency within the Department of Justice that has the responsibility of supervising Federal offenders that are eligible for parole. The Parole Commission also has jurisdiction over offenders from the District of Columbia who are parole-eligible and those convicted under current DC law, under which they cannot be paroled. 
   Today, the great majority of the Commission's workload concerns the District of Columbia offenders. That's because the group of offenders that the Commission was originally intended to supervise--Federal offenders that are eligible for parole--are a small category of prisoners getting smaller every day. This decrease in the number of parole-eligible Federal offenders is the result of a decision by Congress to end indeterminate sentencing, and therefore Federal parole, with the passage of the Sentencing Reform Act, or SRA, of 1984. 
   As a result of the SRA, the arbitrary and disparate sentences imposed by judges under the old system were replaced with determinate sentences mandated by strong guidelines created by the U.S. Sentencing Commission. This new Federal sentencing arrangement has been an unquestioned success. Determinate sentencing makes incarceration terms more meaningful and ensures that offenders actually serve most of their sentences. Determinate sentencing also helped to restore the credibility of courts by making sentencing more uniform. 
   Over the last 25 years the national crime rate has dropped. This decrease in crime can be attributed to determinate sentencing, which keeps the violent criminals in prison and off the streets, and it also provides a deterrent. 
   In an effort to lower local crime rates, the District of Columbia followed the Federal example and abolished parole. Under the new DC system, the DC Superior Court imposes a term of incarceration and supervised release, and the Parole Commission enforces the conditions of the supervised release. 
   Like the population of Federal offenders eligible for parole, the parole-eligible DC offender population is declining over time, although at a slower rate than Federal offenders.     
   However, because all incoming offenders are now sentenced under the new law, the DC supervised release offender population is increasing over time. 
   The Department of Justice has indicated that it will evaluate the future of the commission during the 3-year reauthorization period. The department will review whether any changes to the commission are necessary to reflect its decreasing Federal parole responsibilities and its evolving supervised release responsibilities for the District of Columbia. These changes may include transferring all or some of the commission's functions to an entity or entities inside or outside the Department of Justice. 
   We hope the department will share the results of this review with Congress as it will help the legislature make an informed decision about the future status of the U.S. Parole Commission. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RECOGNIZING THE 20TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE CIVIL LIBERTIES ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I yield myself so much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, I support House Resolution 1357, recognizing the significance of the 20th anniversary of the signing of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988. 
   Executive Order 9066 was signed by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt to authorize the tragic internment of  Japanese Americans at the beginning of World War II. In 1942 President Roosevelt authorized the Army to evacuate more than 100,000 Japanese Americans from the Pacific Coast States, including Washington, Oregon, California and Arizona. This grossly broad approach to maintaining America's security serves as a continuing reminder that the civil rights of American citizens should never be lost, even in the midst of the chaos of war. 
   President Roosevelt authorized the mass expulsion and incarceration of Japanese Americans by signing Executive Order 9066 on February 19, 1942. He took this ill-fated action, even though, in the words of Stetson Conn, a historian with the Army's Office of Military History, he said, ``The only responsible commander who backed the War Department's mass evacuation plan as a measure required by military necessity, was the President himself, as Commander-in-Chief.'' Even Attorney General Francis Biddle and FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover advised against it. 
   That tragic misuse of power was met with an equally powerful response but, unfortunately, much too late. 
   In 1976 President Gerald Ford issued Proclamation 4417, in which he said, ``Learning from our mistakes is not pleasant, but as a great philosopher once admonished, we must do so if we want to avoid repeating them. I call upon the American people to affirm with me this American promise, that we have learned from the tragedy of that long ago experience forever to treasure, we have learned that we should forever treasure liberty and justice for each individual American, and resolve that this kind of action shall never again be repeated. 
   Congress eventually enacted the Civil Liberties Act of 1988, which this resolution before us recognizes. It apologized on behalf of the Nation for ``fundamental violations of the basic civil liberties and constitutional rights of these individuals of Japanese ancestry.'' 
   President Ronald Reagan signed that action into law on August 10, 1988, proclaiming it a great day for America. 20 years later we stand here today to renew our Nation's commitment to remember the past, and to shepherd its lessons into the future. 
   I have in the past, and I would again today, Mr. Speaker, address the subject matter of how we should understand history. And quite often I find that we, in this Congress, are judging our ancestors with contemporary values and trying put their actions into a modern context, rather than for us to try to understand the context in which they made those decisions. 
   And even though I have made the case that J. Edgar Hoover advised against and the Attorney General advised against, Franklin Delano Roosevelt did go ahead with the Executive Order that began the internment of 100,000 or more Japanese Americans here in the United States. It was just months after the Japanese had attacked Pearl Harbor, very much the same scenario, from a national apprehension standpoint, as we had just post September 11, 2001. 
   And so I think history should not judge our ancestors harshly. We should seek to learn from these examples of history within two contexts; one context being looking back upon it, and another context would be try to place ourselves into the shoes of the people that had to make the decisions in that environment. 
   I am convinced that Franklin Delano Roosevelt had the best interest of America in mind. I think he was very afraid that there would be some lost intelligence. That was the mind set of the time. 
   But we have come a long, long way since then, Mr. Speaker, and so far that one of our most important trading partners is Japan. One of our most important strategic partners is Japan. 
   We have come so far that my father, who spent 2 1/2 years in the South Pacific and forbid rice to be in our household, this young man had dinner with the Minister of Defense of Japan 60 years later. This Nation has many times shaken hands across the Pacific with our good friends in Japan. And this resolution that is before us today acknowledges the history and says that if we had it to do over again we would have done it differently. But it also builds upon it so we can expand our relationships with our good friends, the Japanese. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RECOGNIZING THE 20TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE CIVIL LIBERTIES ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I appreciate the remarks from the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Frank), and particularly we do have the benefit of hindsight; and I don't know that there is a generation that's compelled to apologize for a previous generation or its ancestors. And I would question the real value of descendents of people who had to make decisions in that context apologizing for their actions. 
   And I look across at some of these that we've done. I remember President Clinton apologizing to Africa for slavery--and we have a resolution that's going to come up for a vote a little bit later on slavery--and I regret those things. I would point out that if indeed these are the sins of our fathers, they're not necessarily visited upon the sons and daughters unto the second or third generation and that we should learn from history. And we do have the opportunity to be Monday morning quarterbacks, to have the perspective of hindsight, as the gentleman from Massachusetts said. I definitely agree with that emotion that's there and that thought process. 
   But I would caution us that I am watching us move down a path of apologizing for one thing and another, and I'm not watching us stop and give thanks for the wonderful and noble things that this country has done. And I think when we look across the globe at the results of that great effort of World War II, that wonderful victory of the Greatest Generation that this country has ever produced, that we can see that millions of people breathe free air today because of the prices that were paid. And there's never been a war that's been fought without mistakes. There's been mistakes in judgment and in political judgment and military miscalculations, and lives have been lost over and over again in those miscalculations. But we had to find ways to persevere and we have. 
   And what came out of World War II was the United States emerged as a global power. Our industry was the most powerful industry in the world, unchallenged, because ours was not destroyed and the carnage that visited the competing ideology, so to speak. And our currency became the currency of the world, and American-made products became dominant throughout the world. The American culture spread throughout the world. And our sense of freedom and our language and our civilization rose up to be predominant. 
   And it was unchallenged at that time until such time as the Soviet Union was quickly formed and came up against the United States. And we saw the Cold War begin within years of the Second World War. That fought for 40 to 45 years, and our way of life succeeded. 
   All of that flowed out of something that had some mistakes along the way. And anyone that's ever done anything in life knows that there are mistakes, whether you raised a family or fought a war or started a business or entered into public life. All of us made mistakes along the way, but I do not believe that we carry guilt from preceding generations. 
   But we do have a responsibility. If we fail to learn, then we would carry guilt ourselves if we fail to learn from those actions of our ancestors whom today we judge to be wrong. And I do believe they were wrong, and I do support this resolution. And I support it with the spirit that I have articulated here. 
   I would reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (AUTHORIZING FUNDING FOR THE NATIONAL ADVOCACY CENTER -- (House of Representatives - July 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself so much time as I may consume. 
   Mr. Speaker, our State and local prosecutors are the heart of our criminal justice system. These dedicated men and women prosecute the majority of criminal cases in the country. 
   Every State has its criminal problems, and in my home State, we have 350 deputy county attorneys and assistant attorneys general who prosecute thousands of crimes each year. In 2007, for example, State and county prosecutors handled over 68,000 criminal cases in my State alone. 
   The National District Attorneys Association, working in conjunction with the Department of Justice's Office of Legal Education, provides training to State and local prosecutors at the Ernest F. Hollings National Advocacy Center in Columbia, South Carolina. This comprehensive training improves trial practice and advocacy skills needed to successfully prosecute crimes against children, gang crimes, and other violent criminal activity. 
   The National Advocacy Center contains over 200,000 square feet of classrooms, conference rooms, and full-size  courtrooms equipped with state-of-the-art audio technology for training. The National District Attorneys Association offers a variety of courses at the center, often including visiting lecturers and experts in specific areas of criminal prosecution. 
   Since 1998, the NDAA's, National District Attorneys Association, program at the National Advocacy Center has provided specialized training and education to approximately 3,000 local prosecutors each year. And over that time, the center has trained a total of over 20,000 State and local prosecutors. 
   Unfortunately, Federal funding for this training has significantly decreased in recent years. In fiscal year 2007, the program received no Federal funding. This lack of funding has required the NDAA to lay off employees and require students to pay for their expenses in order to keep the training program up and running. 
   H.R. 6083 authorizes $6.5 million a year for fiscal years 2009 through 2012 to the Attorney General to carry out this important training program. 
   It's critical that our prosecutors are properly trained to hone their courtroom skills and adapt to changing trial practices. These prosecutors come from all across the country and converge on South Carolina, where this center of education is there for them, and that means there's also a standard that goes back across the country, and I think that's an important piece of this as well, Mr. Speaker. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 6083. 
   I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Once again, Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the privilege of being recognized to address you here on the floor of the United States Congress. 
   And as I have listened to some of the dialogue that has been rolled out here before me, I think it's imperative that someone come to the floor to bring another voice and another opinion and another viewpoint to this subject matter, particularly of SCHIP. 
   The first point that I would make, Mr. Speaker, is that the SCHIP issue that has been kicked around this Congress now into its third week that perhaps comes before the floor tomorrow in an effort to override the President's very prudent and well-reasoned veto has been turned into a political issue rather than a policy issue. 
   SCHIP, State Children's Health Insurance Program, now, one could read that acronym and perhaps get a little better idea of what it stands for by reading the poster, Mr. Speaker. And I have heard presenter after presenter here this evening over on the other side of the aisle address this issue as children's health care and the allegation that the people that are guarding the taxpayers' dollars and seeking to get the resources that are here for the SCHIP program into the benefit of children, those who want a responsible program, those that don't want to chase people off of their own private health insurance but those that want to encourage parents, responsible parents, those who can afford it, to provide the health insurance for their children, those who want to encourage employers to provide health insurance as part of the employment package and keep in that package the insurance of the children, those of us who don't want to grow government, that want more personal responsibility, those of us who respect and appreciate the best health care system in the world, those of us who recognize that if there is a private sector investment, if people are responsible for their own health care, if parents take responsibility for their children's health insurance that this invisible hand that Adam Smith wrote about, this consumer's guide to how the health care in America will be developed, how it will evolve, how the research will be done, how the development will be done, how we will be marketing health insurance and how we will be providing services, this best system we have in the world is something we want to preserve. 
   And I can't think of a single thing we could do to destroy the best health care system in the world rather than to institutionalize it and federalize it and make it a socialized medicine program. Now, how do you do that? 
   Well, here on the floor, Mr. Speaker, of the United States Congress, September 22, 1993, President Clinton asked for a joint session of Congress. It's unusual for a President to ask to come speak to the House and the Senate in a joint session aside from the State of the Union address, but he did that on September 22, 1993, I think because Hillary actually advised him to, myself. And I have read the speech, and it is about a dozen pages long. And in that speech is component after component of a nationalized, socialized medicine program that was rolled out by the new Clinton administration in the fall of 1993. 
   And America looked at that. And, Mr. Speaker, I still have that poster, and I have it in the collection of my archives that shows ``Hillary Care.'' It shows a laminated poster about that wide and about that high, and if you look at it in its fine print, it's the flow chart for all the government agencies and all of the price limiting and price control and all the eventual, one can only conclude, health care rationing as well. 
   That whole flow chart is there on that laminated chart. That laminated chart is something that was put up before Americans in magazine after magazine, newspaper after newspaper, and published by good organizations so we could understand what it was that the Clinton administration wanted to impose upon Americans in September of 1993. 
   And as he laid out this case here from just in front of where you are, Mr. Speaker, he began to make a compelling case because he's a good salesman. But the American people sat and watched their television, and they reached down and pinched themselves: Do I really believe what I hear? What is coming out of the mouth of this President that sounds so good? Well, on that night the American people thought it sounded all right. They heard the message that you don't have to be responsible for the bills and you don't have to make any more health care decisions. The government will do that for you. The government will take the money out of the pockets of the people that are more wealthy than you are and put it into the pockets of the people that are of your income and less and take over some of that responsibility that you have, and somehow the world will be a better place. 
   Well, that was the marketing technique of that dozen-page speech September 22, 1993, Mr. Speaker. But when the sun came up on the morning of September 23, 1993, the Americans that had pinched themselves when they listened to the speech had slept upon the policy, and they began to take it apart piece by piece, one component of the flow chart, another component of the flow chart; and we ended up with an educated American populace that, after having listened to some people like ``Harry and Louise,'' after having listened to Senator Phil Gramm over in the Senate say ``We are going to have national health care in America over my cold, dead political body,'' which was a statement that Phil Gramm of Texas made on the floor of the United States Senate back during those years more than a decade ago, Mr. Speaker, the American people one at a time, sometimes by the dozens, sometimes by the hundreds, and, in fact, by the thousands rose up and said, no, we don't want national health care. We don't want that. 
   But a component that we did support, a component that was brought forth from this Congress in about 1997, by my recollection, and I could be off a year or so, Mr. Speaker, so I qualify that, was this component that we call SCHIP, State Children's Health Insurance Program. SCHIP was something that came out of this Republican Congress that was designed to subsidize  health insurance premiums for the children in families that were low income but not low enough income to qualify for Medicaid. That's the policy that was put in place in the mid-1990s, Mr. Speaker, and that is the policy that in 1998 went into law, as ratified in the Iowa legislature as I was a State senator there. We called it ``Hawk-I.'' We did that to give it a State moniker. And the policy that was put in place in Iowa and across this country at the time was 200 percent of the poverty level. 
   If you are a family of four, let's say Mom, Pa, and a couple of kids, and you are making something less than 200 percent of the poverty level, then you would qualify for a Federal subsidy for the health insurance program. And there were matching funds there. So it was a pretty good deal for the State to draw down Federal dollars to set up the SCHIP program, and every other State that I know of and the Hawk-I program in Iowa, as we called it, SCHIP, 200 percent of poverty. 
   Well, some might look at the charts today and dial it up on their Web page, and I think I have one here from Iowa. But the number it has, it shows about $41,000 for a family of four. And that family of four, though, has an exemption, and the exemption is 20 percent. So as I look at the number, Mr. Speaker, it comes together like this: 
   If you are a family of four, an income limit at 200 percent of poverty in the State of Iowa, $41,300, but you get a 20 percent discount. And 20 percent of your income is not included because, presumably, that's some of the waivers that have been granted. And 20 percent of your income is not included because you use that for living expenses. I actually think a far higher percentage of that income is used for living expenses especially in lower-income people. But 200 percent of poverty, $41,000 and change, 20 percent not included. So it really works out to be that you take the $41,000 and divide it by .8, and what qualifies in Iowa today under this SCHIP program, current law, not the one that passed the House of Representatives here that was negotiated down in the Senate, but what is current law today that I've defended, that I've supported, that I've voted for, and that Republicans have appropriated funds to for about a decade, the current law in Iowa is if you are a family of Mom, Dad, two kids, you qualify for SCHIP funding, which is Federal subsidy for your health insurance, at $51,625.     
   Now, the debate should be, not about the allegation that there's somebody here that hates kids. I don't know anybody that hates kids. Most of us have children. We all love our kids; we love our grandkids. To make those kinds of allegations should be beneath the dignity of the people over there on that side, or either side. We know that's false and that specious, and it's myopic to believe that. And somehow they think you, and I speak to that in general terms, Mr. Speaker, as the voters, will buy the idea of the allegations that they make. 
   But we set this up for low-income families. Low-income families are someplace, I think, below $51,625 for a family of four, but that's what qualifies today. This Pelosi Congress passed an SCHIP program that granted Federal subsidies for health insurance premiums at 400 percent of poverty; 400 percent. 
   So could we still, under the House plan, the ``Pelosi plan,'' could we ever claim that this is a program for poor kids at 400 percent of poverty? Well, what does that mean to the average American, Mr. Speaker? I don't know. But I live in Middle America, and we're pretty much an average State for income and an average State for population. And we have got a few things that are above average, I have to confess. If pressed, I can give you a long list, but 400 percent of poverty promoted and passed off this floor by the Pelosi Congress is $103,250 for a family of four. That's what this Congress was determined to put out here to the American people. That's what this Congress passed over to the Senate and said it's for the kids. It's for the poor kids. In fact, it was for the poor kids up to $103,250 in income for a family of four. 
   Now, this debate hasn't been about for the kids; I mean, this subject, this policy isn't about for the kids, and it isn't really any longer about the poor kids. It's about the argument that they're not saying, which is, are we going to lay the cornerstone for socialized medicine or are we not? Are we going to go along with the idea that we want to take away the incentive to be personally responsible as a family, a working family, maybe a two-income working family, maybe mom making $50,000 a year and pa making $50,000 a year and coming in there at $100,000 for a family of four and then saying, but taxpayer, let me have a little bit of money to fund the health insurance for my kids. 
   Even if the employer is providing that policy and it's part of the employment package, this program that was pushed by the majority in this Congress would take two million kids off of their own private health insurance that was funded by the labor of their parents, whether it's a direct check written to purchase the health insurance or whether it is the employment package that's there, two million kids off of that list and put them on the government-funded health insurance. 
   Now, why would anybody want to do that? Why would anybody that believed in this great gift of freedom that we have, why would anybody step in here and say, I don't want you to have that kind of personal responsibility. We don't need that kind of independence in America. We don't need that kind of character. We don't need that kind of work ethic. We want to take that away from you. We want you to be dependent upon these other taxpayers over here because somehow the nanny state can do a better job than you can do at taking care of your own kids, your own family, your own well-being. That's the psychology. And it has a certain amount of contempt for those working people that have the pride and the dignity to take care of themselves. 
   We, on this side, respect that labor and appreciate that. And many of us have pulled ourselves up by our bootstraps, paid for the health insurance for our children, taken care of our own, and paid the taxes besides that went to the people that were truly needy, those people that were on Medicaid, those people that were lower income. And some of us came up out of low-income, and actually, there have been years when I had no income when I got done figuring out my income for a bad year for a small businessman; sometimes it's in the red. 
   We carried our own share of this load and paid our share of taxes and took care of our own kids, and now we come along here and say, well, you don't know how to do that. We can find a better way because somebody out there is paying some taxes, and we can take their money and we're going to stick it back in here and create a program that takes the burden off of you. 
   And so what are we willing to do? If we listen to the majority, if we listen to this San Francisco policy that has been coming forth here for the last 60 minutes, if we would accept the idea that, unless you're making over $103,250 a year, at least in Iowa, for a family of four, you shouldn't have to pay for your own health insurance for your kids, the government can do it. Well, that's the cornerstone of socialized medicine, Mr. Speaker. And the argument otherwise just doesn't sustain itself against the facts. 
   And the constant argument that comes up that this is about children's health care is another misnomer. They start out with the wrong foundation in their argument. This is not about children's health care. This is the same kind of argument of rolling together the argument of illegal immigrants and legal immigrants, packaging them all up into one and using the term ``immigration,'' and then saying that because we're opposed to illegal immigrants, we're also opposed to legal immigrants. 
   Well, the same argument is what they're trying to apply here. If one is opposed to providing health insurance subsidies from hardworking taxpayers to people making over $100,000 a year, they interpret that to mean that you're against health care for kids. 
   You know, we are still a rational society. We still have people that can deductively reason. We have people that can add up two plus two is four and be able to reason that when the allegation is made on the other side of the aisle that somehow anybody is against  health care for kids when every kid in America has access to health care, every kid in America that's in a family, I will say every legal kid in America that's in a family that meets those low guidelines for Medicaid has 100 percent of their health care taken care of. 
   And those between Medicare qualifications and on up to that threshold, Iowa is an example, of $51,625, those kids have their health insurance premiums subsidized by the Federal taxpayer. That's current law. This Congress wanted to take it to $103,250; and when it went over to the Senate, it got negotiated down to 300 percent of poverty. That is still, in my State, $77,437. I say that's no longer middle income. 
   We want to take care of those people that are having a hard time making it, but we do not want to create a dependency society, unless, of course, you come from that side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, and you're politically dependent upon a dependency society. And that's what's going on. That's what this argument is about. This is about creating a dependent society that will constantly come forth and support policies that make them dependent upon those people that are currently in the majority. 
   And how does the vitality of this Nation succeed if we're going to continue to dial down the vitality of Americans? Don't we know the difference, couldn't we figure this out? We saw socialism come crashing down November 9, 1989, when the Wall started coming down in East Germany, in East Berlin. That should have been the definite answer on a managed economy. 
   But I continually hear the argument come up over and over again, people over here, they get elected to the United States Congress that don't believe in the free enterprise system, that don't believe in the incentive program, that don't understand the invisible hand, that think somehow the free market economy is built to take advantage of people that don't have as much as anybody else. They don't seem to understand that we have people that start out with nothing that get wealthy in America, and that's realizing and living the American Dream. Even though they have some of those Members in their own caucus over there who have succeeded by these free market standards, they don't believe in the free enterprise system. They believe in a managed state, they believe in a nanny state. And so they want to be a nanny to all the kids, because if they do that, then those families become dependent upon them for the largess that's dipped out of the pockets of the working people in America to the point where this policy, this SCHIP policy that passed off the floor of this House of Representatives, would have not only funded kids and families up over $103,000 a year, families of four, but 70,000 of those families that would qualify for SCHIP, 70,000 families, not 70,000 kids, but 70,000 families also would have obligated to pay for the alternative minimum tax, the tax on the rich that was created years ago. 
   Now, tell me how you argue that's not socialized medicine when you've got to subsidize the health care of families so they can afford to pay the alternative minimum tax. That's the strategy. If you start on one end and you start on the other, you have people that are well off, paying more and more taxes, that's called ``progressive taxes.'' Those progressive taxes go higher and higher and higher. They come in from this way. And then you subsidize over on this side and you take care of things like heat subsidy and rent subsidy and health insurance premiums and Medicaid. And you come in from this way, you fund people's families this way, and you tax the wealthy this way, and then when they meet in the middle, you have socialism. When you have taken from the rich and given to everybody else and you have done this great class leveler, if everybody has the same income, now you've reached socialism. 
   But this goes even further, this SCHIP program. It crosses the line, Mr. Speaker. And so those paying the alternative minimum tax are pulled down here. Those that are receiving the SCHIP program subsidy up to 400 percent of poverty, the first passage out of this House, we're over here, 70,000 families in the middle. We've come all the way. 
   This policy closes the entire gap on the question of whether the people on this side of the aisle are truly Socialists, whether they believe in a free market system or whether they believe in a dependency society. Well, it's a dependency society that they believe in, Mr. Speaker. 
   And I will add, there are Presidential politics involved in this agenda. Now, simply, if the majority cared about the policy, we would be sitting down negotiating what it is we can agree on and trying to come up with the votes to put a policy together there. But, instead, they allege that there are all these kids that are not going to get their health care. Never true, always false, always a false statement. 
   In fact, when those statements were being made, we had passed off of this floor a continuing resolution that guarantees current SCHIP policy all the way to November 16th of this year. We did that so we would make sure there was no gap for any kid in America. And by the way, if we didn't care about SCHIP, wouldn't we have maybe not funded it, or underfunded it, or let it expire, or voted it out sometime when Republicans were in the majority? 
   How can one think that the allegation from Democrats today, when they've got the gavel, that now all of a sudden the people on this side that created SCHIP and funded SCHIP and nurtured it and protected it for a decade now have changed their mind? It's a ridiculous assumption, and it's false, Mr. Speaker. And this is about whether we're going to lay the cornerstone for socialized medicine. So political and Presidential politics play right into this. 
   We have these debates going on all over the country. They are concentrated in Iowa, and they are concentrated in New Hampshire. I will concede that, Mr. Speaker. And so every single Democrat Presidential candidate is for expanding this SCHIP as far as they can get it. I haven't heard a single one of them say, that's a bit too much, I think we've gone too far. I think we might have come so far from the left that we crossed over and tapped into those alternative minimum tax payers, that was maybe too much. Not one. Not a voice of fiscal responsibility, not a peep out of the advocates that says that they would ever draw the line anywhere. Because, truthfully, Mr. Speaker, they wouldn't draw the line anywhere. They simply would keep spending tax dollars, keep creating more government programs until there is no free market system left. 
   This is the cornerstone of socialized medicine. This does have to do with the Presidential politics. That is one of the reasons why it's been raised up to this level. When the President correctly and appropriately vetoed this bill, this $35 billion expansion, he had on the table $5.8 billion in increase, I support that. I support an extension of this, and I'm an original cosponsor of the legislation that carries this SCHIP funding out another 18 months to get us past the silly season of the Presidential and congressional elections, and perhaps we can have a serious debate then about the policy. 
   Meanwhile, I haven't heard a lot of noise about deficiencies in the program we have today. We have so many discrepancies in this program, Mr. Speaker, that we haven't really had the time to weigh them all in here on the floor of the United States Congress. But I want to make sure that I lay out what this really is about, SCHIP. Here's what it really stands for, SCHIP, ``Socialized Clinton-style Hillary Care for Illegals and Their Parents.'' That's SCHIP. I'll say it again. ``Socialized Clinton-style Hillary Care for Illegals and Their Parents.'' 
   Well, I didn't address the illegal part of this. And there has been significant discourse across the country, but who has got the facts right on whether this legislation enables and enacts funding for health insurance premium subsidies, and in this case, also health care for those who are eligible for deportation?     
   Let me say this, Mr. Speaker, if ICE, if Immigration Customs Enforcement were required to deliver the voucher for SCHIP, as designed by the Democrat majority here in Congress, if they delivered those vouchers, Mr. Speaker, they would be compelled to bring a lot of those folks and deliver them back to their home country. That is the fact of  this, because they have reduced the standards, the standards under Medicaid more so than SCHIP, the standards under Medicaid that are current law today, see, you have to qualify as a citizen of the United States in order to qualify for the benefit. If you want to come over here on a visitor's visa, or a student visa, or a green card, we have already, long ago, made the agreement that we don't think that the taxpayers should subsidize those folks who come here to America for the first 5 years. So we set the standard, demonstrate your citizenship. There's a whole list of ways to do that. The primary two are a birth certificate with supporting documents or a passport, which has already required the supporting documents. That is the standard that is in current law, Mr. Speaker. 
   This legislation that was promoted here by the Pelosi Congress and sent to the Senate and passed off the floor of the Senate, and thankfully vetoed by the President, has lowered those standards so that now presentation of a legitimate Social Security number is all that is required to demonstrate your lawful presence in the United States and your eligibility, for now, in this particular case, it also includes Medicaid, as well as SCHIP. The result is that we know that we have millions of people employed in the United States illegally who have presented a Social Security number that may or may not have been a legitimate one, but all they need to do is identify a legitimate Social Security number, present it to their employer, their employer sent that number off to the Social Security Administration. That was all that was required. There might be 1,000 people with the same number. Well, they all get paid every Friday and the benefits all get stacked up on that, and it is called the no match list in a way. Some of it is duplicates. There is also the no match list. Then there is the nonwork Social Security numbers that are given to people that aren't eligible to work here but they needed the number for another reason while they were here as a visitor. There are millions of nonwork Social Security numbers. 
   Well, all of those that are legitimate or valid may not identify an American citizen, and the Social Security Administration has put out a statement that it is inadequate to take a Social Security number and use that to verify citizenship. But that, under the new standards by this majority in Congress, would be all that is required now to qualify for Medicaid benefits and, Mr. Speaker, to qualify for SCHIP benefits. In Iowa that's Hawk-I. 
   The Congressional Budget Office has concluded that the net cost to taxpayers, and now I have to do the math on this, is $3.7 billion in extra funding by lowering those citizenship standards. Much of that will go to illegals, people that are unlawfully in the United States, people that if ICE delivered the check, delivered the voucher, if they are going to follow through on the law, they would have to pick them up and take them home. 
   There is another $2.8 billion that is the States' share of that obligation. So the net cost for opening up, the standards that allow people who are unlawfully present in the United States and ineligible for Medicaid benefits and SCHIP benefits to open up those standards, the net cost to the taxpayers directed by the Congressional Budget Office is $6.5 billion. 
   Yet, Mr. Speaker, I have highly positioned people here in the House of Representatives and over in the other body that say, that's not true. Well, if that is the case, Mr. Speaker, let them roll the language out. Show me where that loophole is closed. I have read the language. I am saying the loophole doesn't exist. I believe that this is, as I said earlier, SCHIP, Socialized Clinton-style Hillary-care for Illegals and Their Parents. That will be the result. That is the cornerstone of socialized medicine, the weakened citizenship requirements. 
   I will make another point, and that is when my State gets finished paying the increase in tobacco tax, the 61 cents a pack that is added on to the current Federal 39 cents, that is a 156 percent increase of tobacco tax on cigarettes. Now, I am not here to plead for the smokers except I will plead with you all, Mr. Speaker, if you are smokers, please quit. We all know it is not good for you. Read the side of the pack. That is where you get all the information you need to know to make that decision. But when you increase the tax, we have a lot of middle- and low-income people are smokers. They will pay a disproportionate share of that tax. But when they pay that tax in my State, of course, there will be an increased revenue on tobacco tax in all States. That money, that 61 cents a pack additional that brings the tax up to $1 a pack, flows here to Washington, D.C. and then we sit here and make the decisions on flowing it back to the States. We know, according to the Centers For Disease Control on this particular statistic, we know that in my State, we pay additional taxes, and then money comes back in under SCHIP, and the net loss to my Iowa taxpayers is $226 million. $226 million is our net loss for this program. Why would we want to be for a program that is going to cost everybody in Iowa more money and you get less back? This brilliant plan, and I will get that to a chart here to illustrate it a little bit better, but this brilliant plan also presumes that there is going to be a whole lot more smokers that will be recruited in order to fund the extra cost of this SCHIP program. That number is over the years of this program an additional 22.4 million new smokers. 
   Now, Mr. Speaker, I am having a little trouble with the math on this. How does this work? How does this work that you increase the tax on tobacco and you kick that tobacco tax up from 39 cents, add 61 cents, now you are a buck a pack. Now that cigarettes got 61 cents more expensive, we are going to have 22.4 million more new smokers. It defies any kind of logic or any kind of rationale. That is typical for Washington, some will say. But I think we have a strong record of being for the kids. We have a strong record of providing for their health care. No one could bring a child out here on a poster or to the floor or before a press conference and say this kid didn't have access to health care. In fact, the examples that have been used by the majority on the other side, Mr. Speaker, are examples of kids that already qualify. And if they do not, I would like to have them point out the exceptions. 
   So at this point in this opportunity that I have, I see that my good friend from New Jersey (Mr. Garrett) who has been a strong and vigilant voice for the taxpayers of America and prudent policy that produces the right result has arrived on the floor. 
   I would be happy to yield him such time as he may consume. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from New Jersey. While you are here, a question arises in my mind and perhaps you are more astute in the nuances of history, and neither of us were here during the nineties when the welfare to work, the welfare reform program was put into place. I pose this question. There is a part in my recollection I am not certain about, but it seems that one of the criticisms to welfare reform, getting people off of welfare and putting them on work, ``workfare'' we often called it, and there was significant success in some of the States. Wisconsin got a lot of publicity, I think, that launched Governor Tommy Thompson on a pretty successful path. Also, in my State we did a very good job and very successful working in conjunction with the policy established here out of Congress. 
   But it is my recollection that a component in the master plan to succeed in welfare reform was that if you took people off welfare and they couldn't afford health insurance for their children, they would be more likely to stay on welfare and less likely to work. So that was one of the components of the psychology in creating the SCHIP program in the first place, dialed in at 200 percent of poverty. 
   I would ask the gentleman from New Jersey if that is consistent with your recollection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman. 
   Mr. Speaker, I put this poster up. This shows the different levels in the maximum income levels for qualifications in Iowa income today, which I think is representative across the country. This is the number that I spoke about earlier. This is current law as it is applied in Iowa today, a family of four qualifying for the State Children's Health Insurance Program subsidy dollars making $51,625 a year. We also have significant number of kids that qualify, not just in Iowa, but across the country, that are not recruited, they are not signed up under this program. 
   Now, I am going to operate under the theory that if the family has sufficient income or if they have the health insurance that's provided through their employers, they may well not want to complicate their plan and they may be a lot happier taking care of their own health insurance premiums. I am happy if they are. 
   Mr. Speaker, it isn't my job to come here to this United States Congress and ask people to be more dependent upon the tax dollars that we are squeezing out of the working people in America. That is all the taxpayers in America have to contribute to this. So we want to take care of the poor people, take care of those at that threshold of Medicaid, but we chose that number to be at 200 percent, and because of waivers, we are at $51,625 for that family of four in Iowa. 
   This is what the Pelosi Congress passed; the first pass off the floor that went to the Senate, which set Iowa at $103,250 for a family of four. Who in the world thinks that that is poverty, a six-figure income for a family of four, that is a poverty level where you can't sustain your own income or you can't sustain your own responsibilities for health insurance. By the way, who's making that kind of money that doesn't have some kind of arrangements for health insurance? 
   Well, there is an answer to that, Mr. Speaker. In one of those posters, I think it's this handy poster behind here. Before I go to the next poster, I want to ask the gentleman from New Jersey, at this 400 percent of poverty here, the 300 percent, for 200 here, what kind of creativity does New Jersey have and what one might expect on a chart if one had this set-up for the New Jersey residents. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman. 
   Mr. Speaker, as you spoke, I put up this chart that tells us about what level of health insurance is there for kids. As you go up the chart here, and I will draw the line at 300 percent of poverty, 77 percent have health insurance; at 400 percent, 89 percent. Then actually up to 400 percent, 89 percent do. Once you reach the level that was passed off here by the majority in this Congress, there are only five percent of the kids that don't have health insurance. 
   So what were we trying to fix that covered 95 percent of those kids? What was it that had a greater value to this society than people being able to make their own decisions with their own money. I will argue again, this lays the cornerstone for socialized medicine and it pushes kids off of their own private health insurance. 
   The CBO has some numbers that shows for everyone that would be picked up and put on health insurance, there is another one that has their own health insurance that they will be leveraged off of it. A one-to-one ratio. In that number are 2 million kids that are currently insured by this current program, the bill that will come up again tomorrow, where we will sustain the President's veto. Should we fail to do that, there will be 2 million kids in America that will lose their own private health insurance because their decision will be made let the government pay for it instead. 
   I call that irresponsible. I call that poor policy. If you believe in socialized medicine, if you believe in a managed economy, if you believe in a managed society, if you believe in less freedom and more dependency, then make the argument, make the argument, Democrats. If that is your vision, stand up and say so. But instead they say no, it is not about socialized health care. This is about kids. 
   Well, I care about my kids. I care about their future, Mr. Speaker. I care about my grandchildren and their future. And when I hear my colleagues over on this side of the aisle talk about the legacy that we are shaping here on the floor of the United States Congress, they are thinking about the legacy that has been handed to us, down from God through the hands of our Founding Fathers, on to that document where they pledged their lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor, which is the Declaration, and on to the Constitution, this great legacy that has flowed to us, God's gift of freedom, is being diminished day by day on the floor of the United States Congress, trading off our freedom for dependency, trading off our freedom for, even today with the FISA debate, less security. 
   What is the vision here on the other side of the aisle? I want to hang onto those gifts that we have. I want my children to have more opportunities than I had, not less. I don't want to diminish those opportunities by taking away from them their freedoms, taking away their decisionmaking, making them so dependent that they lose their vitality, that they forget that they have to go out and work, earn, save and invest and plan for and manage their own future. 
   Even Jimmy Carter said back in about 1976 that people that work should live better than those who don't. Too bad he didn't follow through on that philosophy. But that was a memorable quote that I thought was a memorable one that he made when he was campaigning for President back in Iowa back then, that people that work hard and plan have to have some reward, and if you take their reward away, the hard-earned sweat from their brow, and you require them to pay the Alternative Minimum Tax, because you say you made too much money and the tax rates we made aren't good enough to get all the money we want out of you, so we will add this extra Alternative Minimum Tax on here, and 70,000 of those families have to have the health insurance for their children subsidized because you set up a policy that is closed and cross the loop from independents, from progressive tax, to socialism, then we are here to say, Mr. Speaker, that is wrong. 
   I take that stand and I draw that bright line. That is wrong. I want freedom. I want personal responsibility. I want to reward the people that make their own decisions. They need to have the freedom that comes with the dollars that they earn to the maximum extent possible. 
   I will be happy to yield to the gentleman from New Jersey. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from New Jersey, and I take you north of the border. We started to hear in the news in the last week or so something that has been brought to our attention here in this Congress where we have some Interparliamentary exchange, and I have sat down with the Canadians perhaps 3 years ago. 
   They pressed the case that we need to do a better job of controlling our borders because we had people pouring into the United States, coming here illegally, and once they got established here, they realized there were welfare benefits to be had in Canada. And they were having thousands, at that time, about 3 years ago, they had about 50,000 illegal immigrants that they said had poured through the United States and into Canada and they were putting too much pressure on their welfare system. 
   So I asked the question in that meeting, what percentage of those that arrive sign up and qualify for welfare? Their answer was, Mr. Speaker, virtually 100 percent of them, because that is how the Canadian laws are set up as a magnet. 
   If you saw in the news this past week, there is a community there not too far north of the border into Canada that has started to raise an issue, and they said they are enclaves that are being created here with illegal immigrants that have been illegal in the United States that have gone on into Canada because the welfare benefits are better. 
   They interviewed some of them on the street where they laughed and smiled about how it was that their welfare check came on time, there weren't so many snags and snafus in the welfare system in Canada, and they were glad to be there despite of the winters. 
   That was the message I got, Mr. Speaker. And I think that study in sociology that the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Garrett) has laid out speaks to that, that people will follow a path, and if you grant them a safety net, that is fine. It fits the standards I think of the American people. But when you crank that safety net up, at some level the safety net becomes a hammock. Then they rest back in the hammock and they lose their desire to produce, there is not a reason any longer. So the merit that comes from having to produce, of having that responsibility, is part of what gives us a vitality in this country. 
   As I started this discussion out in the beginning, I talked briefly about the defeat of communism, the defeat of socialism, the collapse of the Soviet empire, because they found out that a managed economy and socialism didn't work. That when you let people earn, save, work, invest, and they decide when they make their purchases and they decide how they go about doing that, that creates opportunities in a free market system.     
   You simply cannot manage an economy without it. It manages itself under the free market system, and people have an incentive to go to work because there is a reward for that work. If you take that reward away and you do the great leveler and you make the argument like is being made in this Socialized Clinton-style Hillary-care for Illegals and their Parents, if you make the argument that you make too much money, we are going to take it. And, by the way, we are going to take all of that that comes down someplace in the middle, and then we are going to subsidize your expenses on up to that point, and in fact we are going to cross them to where we are going to tax you on the alternative minimum tax and provide health insurance for your kids, that is the definition of the nanny state. That is a definition of socialism, and that is a definition for a nation losing its vitality, its confidence, its ambition. And the sum total of the individual productivity in America under this plan, Mr. Speaker, goes down. American people will not work as hard. They will not be as prudent and as responsible under this program that they have brought off this floor in this Pelosi Congress, and that diminishes all of us. 
   We need to be about raising the average individual productivity of all of our people and the quality of our life and raising our own personal responsibility. It is not just economic, Mr. Speaker, it is cultural. It is the work ethic. We used to call it the Protestant work ethic until we figured out that the Catholics got with that program pretty good, too. 
   But we went to work and we raised our families. We understand that is our first responsibility, then our neighborhood and our community. Also our schools and our churches and our States and our country. God, then country, make this a better place than it was when you came. That is the charge that has been handed to us because we are such grateful beneficiaries of this American Dream that has been passed to us. And we squander it under this program. 
   We diminish all of us when we increase the dependency, especially when we can't make an honest argument, an argument that speaks to the issue, an argument that says over there, if they just stand up and say ``I am for socialized medicine,'' at least the Presidential candidates, the Democrats, have done that. 
   They haven't quite done that over there yet. They want to change the subject matter. They are for socialized medicine. We are for freedom. We are for the kids. 
   I yield to the gentleman. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. One other point. This isn't all just about kids on SCHIP. You have States like Minnesota, 87 percent of the beneficiaries are adults, not kids. We need to take these resources and push them down to where they go to the kids that are the reason for this program. We need to provide and maintain this personal responsibility. Two hundred percent of poverty has been a good target for more than 10 years. Four hundred percent of poverty is taking the path to socialism. Three hundred percent is too much. But this program that is before us today is Socialized Clinton-style Hillary-care for Illegals and their Parents. 
   Mr. Speaker, I will let that be the last word. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ADVANCED FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - February 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word. 
   First I want to state that I appreciate this open rule and this open dialogue and debate that we have here on the floor of the United States Congress today. It is a healthy process that we are going through, and it is a process that, of course, is designed to perfect legislation or allow that perfect legislation to have an opportunity to be vetted and rise as a perfect piece. 
   And as I look at this overall proposal to authorize $10 million to develop an additive so that we can put renewable fuels and particularly ethanol down through the pipeline, Mr. Chairman, I can't help but reflect back upon the beginnings of renewable fuels in the United States of America. 
   As most people know, I represent the Fifth Congressional District of Iowa. And there, of all the 435 congressional districts, we are number two in ethanol production. By the end of this year, we will be number one in ethanol production. We are number one in biodiesel production of all 435 districts. And also with renewable energy, we are today tied for fourth and will this year be tied at least for second and perhaps first in the electrical generation by wind. That puts us, Mr. Chairman, within the grasp of winning the renewable energy triple crown: ethanol, biodiesel, and wind all tied up in one congressional district. 
   Now, I raise this issue because I have the great privilege of having grown up and having developed my business and my life and my experience in the epicenter of renewable fuels. And that perspective is so utterly valuable, at least for me. And when I go back to Iowa and have the opportunity to visit the Iowa Senate where I formerly served, I am always proud to shake the hand of State Senator Thurman Gaskill of Corwith, Iowa, who pumped that first gallon of ethanol back in 1978. And from that first gallon, we are here today on the floor of the United States Congress talking about a problem of how to transport all of these billions of gallons of ethanol that we are producing. It is a fantastic transformation that we have taken from 1978 to today. It hasn't been without work, it hasn't been without risk, and it hasn't been without its failures along the way. But it is a glorious success. 
   And I appreciate the gentleman from Illinois coming forward. And here we are, Iowa is the number one ethanol-producing State in the Union as well, and it produces 26 percent of the ethanol in the country. And it is important to know that the United States has surpassed Brazil in overall ethanol production. 
   So we have an industry here that is growing. We have an infrastructure that is being established and founded, and we are to this point now where we have so much fuel that we are producing. Not nearly enough, I want to add that. We have to find a transportation way to resolve that issue.  
   I want to point out also, Mr. Chairman, that of these difficulties that we have had in the past, we have put some tax credits in place, and the private sector has been magnificent in finding solutions. For example, the increase in the production of ethanol out of every gallon of corn has come from a lot of industry-driven solutions, and this transportation problem also can come from industry-driven solutions. 
   So I want to watch this authorization as it moves through. The private sector has been very, very effective. And yet we will be producing more and more ethanol as the years go by and blending it in. And as we move to cellulosic, of course, this becomes more and more important. 
   One of the difficulties with this bill also, though, is the component of ultra-low sulfur fuels and the burden that it puts on our jobbers, on our fuel distributors, that they will have one truck and they will have to haul a load of low-sulfur fuel and then turn around and load that up and haul a load of ultra-low sulfur fuel.     
   As that unfolds, they are going to find themselves in a situation where they will be vulnerable to regulations without any means to determine whether their load actually meets that very tight standard on ultra-low sulfur fuel. 
   So as this process moves forward, I would remind this body and ask the Department of Energy and the EPA to pay very close attention to finding a way to develop an economic testing system that will allow these jobbers to be in compliance. 
   So, overall, we have gone by leaps and bounds from that first gallon of ethanol that was pumped back in 1978, and here we are the number one ethanol-producing nation in the world. We have far eclipsed Brazil. Our technology is far ahead of theirs. And this is not just an ability to produce ethanol, but the intellectual property that grows from having done this. 
   We have the science down and we have the research and development in place and that is growing and multiplying, and as that happens we build more and more expertise. That expertise grows from the epicenter of these renewable fuels out into the regions of the country. 
   So I would say we will see ethanol flow out to the limits of the corn belt, biodiesel to the limits of the soybean area. We will see the cellulosics fill in the gaps. And we are going to see the markets drive this and tax structure be supportive of it. 
   I am supportive conceptually of this legislation that is before us, and I thank the gentleman for bringing this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ADVANCED FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - February 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word. 
   I rise in support of the Cantor amendment, and I thank the gentleman from Virginia for bringing this amendment. 
   As we look at the overall atmosphere that is here, and not just the atmosphere in this Congress, Mr. Chairman, but in the atmosphere up above and on this Earth, and we see the effort that is coming, this strong effort, to address global warming. 
   Now, I am not one of those strong proponents of those kinds of efforts; I want to make that clear. I do not think the science is there, but I do look at how this Congress has started, how it was going to be the most open Congress in history, and it has now been opened up today, and I appreciate that. 
   We understand the issue that had to do with minimum wage and the Tunagate issue, and now here we are a judgment issue, a judgment issue of the small plane that Speaker Hastert had was plenty big enough for a very big man and the entourage that he needed to provide his security, and yet now here we have a request for a plane that I see is 42 business class seats, 16 staff people that consumes $300,000 for a round trip. 
   The statistics that I have are $22,000 an hour, $22,000 an hour. Mr. Chairman, that is more money than many of my constituent families make in a year. Well, let us just say that $22,000 an hour is that amount. Then how many people, how many families does it take to earn enough to pay for a year of this plane flying back and forth from Washington to the west coast every single week? So I use 50 weeks, added the math up, its overall costs by those numbers is $15 million annually for this big plane to bounce back and forth and to be able to load all of the family and the supporters, the staff, perhaps other Members, constituents, who knows who might be on that plane, $15 million. 
   Now, how hard is it to pay $15 million out of the Federal Treasury? Well, if we took all of the revenue of the income of those families that I reference, Mr. Chairman, those families at $22,000 a year, it would take 682 families to earn enough revenue just to pay to fly the Speaker back and forth so she could be with her family on the weekends in San Francisco. 
   That lays out what is happening here in my mind, and I take us back to that place near enough to Hollywood that I can reference it. Many of the people in Hollywood that have been flying around on private jets and driving around in big SUVs have been called to task for their positions promoting an effort to stop global warming, but the hypocrisy of riding in those SUVs and flying in private jet planes. Now, the pressure has gotten great enough that I do not know that Hollywood has actually seen the conflict between their public position on policy and their actual practice when they climb in the SUV or get on their private jet. 
   But the public does know that Prince Charles of Great Britain has recognized the conflict, and he has been flying in private jets for years; but this year, he is taking the step that he is flying commercial, not because he is not a very intense individual that is a high-risk target. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE WAR ON TERROR -- (House of Representatives - February 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I hope the gentleman from Missouri would just suspend a moment before he leaves the floor. 
   I would like to have the privilege to address the subject matter that he raised and the issue of the Iraq Study Group. And it is somewhat of a long book to read through, but I had a conversation this afternoon with the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Wolf), and I have lifted some things out of the Iraq Study Group's report that are clearly part of the President's agenda in Iraq, ``The New Way Forward,'' and Mr. Wolf assures me that the entire strategy in Iraq is right from the Iraq Study Group. 
   So I point out to the gentleman from Missouri, and I would be happy to yield to him if he had a response, that the plan and the strategy of the President's for a new way forward in Iraq is not flying in the face of the Iraq Study Group. In fact, it follows directly down the path of the Iraq Study Group. If the gentleman from Missouri would care to engage, I would certainly be willing to yield. 
   I came here to talk about that subject matter, in fact, Madam Speaker. And as I listened to my colleagues in preparation for this 60-minute Special Order, I will just take from the top some of the notes that come to mind. 
   And one is, from the beginning, the gentleman from New Jersey spoke about ExxonMobil's highest corporate profits, the highest corporate profits, perhaps, ever in the history of the country, and the promise by this Pelosi Congress to provide energy independence. And then the gentlewoman from Ohio also spoke about ExxonMobil's profits, and the details of that were such that they have $40 billion in profits. Did they lower prices at the pump? 
   Well, yes. Prices at the pump are a dollar a gallon cheaper than they were when oil prices were up to $75 a barrel. In fact, the prices at the pump almost directly reflect the lowering of the prices and the cost of the barrels of crude oil. 
   And then, of course, the argument that there was a class action lawsuit against them for $3.5 billion. And one might take that as a concern until one sees that that, Madam Speaker, is Alabama. Well, Alabama is a venue shoppers' State of choice. Someone who has a lawsuit, and the attorneys across this country know this, when they want to bring a class action lawsuit, they look around and they say what State has favorable laws; what State produces favorable juries. Where is the class envy so focused and where they have a belief that you can put 12 men and women on a jury and they would lay out a punitive case against a company because they see a company as somehow or another an evil Big Brother. 
   That is how you end up with these $3.5 billion or maybe $9 billion punitive damages in a class action lawsuit. 
   We have dealt with this, Madam Speaker, in the Judiciary Committee in the years that I have been in this Congress, and we passed legislation out of the House, and not successful in the Senate, that would allow a company that operates in multiple States, in fact, maybe internationally, to be able to ask that a case that has been venue shopped and taken to a State where there is a minimal amount of economic activity but a maximum amount of punitive damages offered by the juries there, a State that has that kind of reputation, we have passed legislation here in the House that would allow  that to be changed to a Federal venue rather than a State venue so that we can eliminate some of this ghastly profiteering that is taking place and the punishment of some of our best corporate citizens that we have in America. 
   And I sat here tonight and listened to a handful of speakers, and two of them turned their focus on ExxonMobil, and they can't seem to understand that because we have large and successful oil companies in America that they are continuing to invest those profits into research and development and exploration. 
   The gentlewoman from Ohio lamented that they bought back $10 billion worth of their stock. Can she speculate that perhaps that gives them enough control now that they can invest more of their profits in exploration? And if they invest more in exploration, that means there will be more oil on the market, which means then, of course, this law of supply and demand, which I believe in, which everyone on the Republican side of the aisle believes in, which some of the people on the other side of the aisle believe in, that supply and demand will drive down our prices. And that is exactly what has been happening, Madam Speaker. 
   So I have to rise in defense of the companies that have provided cheap gas in this country, cheap oil in this country, and even still, whatever the price of gas is, milk is still more expensive. But not only that, the product that has been free all of my life, that product called ``drinking water'' and, in fact, now bottled water, is more expensive in the machine at the gas station per gallon than a gallon of gas is coming out of the pump right next to it by far. In fact, the last time I calculated that, it was a little over $9 a gallon to get your bottled water out of the machine at the gas station where gas was selling for about $2.15. 
   So we need to keep this in perspective. We cannot be punishing those companies that are out there exploring and putting this oil on the market so that we have the convenience of relatively cheap fuel and the mobile society that we have. If we did not have these companies and you pulled their expertise and their capital and their reserves off the market, we would be far, far more dependent upon Middle Eastern oil and much, much more of America's economy and the profits that we have would be skimmed off to go to the Middle East to fund the people who are lined up against us militarily and philosophically.     
   We are trying to get to energy independence. The Pelosi plan doesn't take us to energy independence. In the first 100 hours, one of those first six pieces of legislation, H.R. 1 through 6, pick your number, the one that addressed energy, went out and punished oil companies. It said, if you have leases, and particularly some leases that were perhaps profitable in the gulf coast, if you have leases that are deemed by the government to be profitable, we are going to require you, as a company, to renegotiate those leases. If you don't renegotiate, then we are going to forbid you, ban you, blackball you, black list you from a company that can negotiate future leases offshore, like, actually, I believe, domestically in shore on land and in the United States. 
   Now, what kind of a deal is it when you have a deal, and the Congress comes here and passes legislation that says a deal is not a deal. Yes, you had a deal. We signed it all in good faith, but we found out it was a good deal. So now we are going to take some of that profit ourselves. I have spent my life in the contracting business, and I have invested a little bit of capital, and I was able to add a little more to it and roll a little back in and work hard and take some chances and work smart. 
   Over a period of time, I was able to build a little capital up and get to the point where we could bid some projects that had some significant value. I have seen this kind of envy rise up when someone looks over and sees the industrious nature of their neighbor and decides they want some of that hard-earned profit. I have had it happen to me when I had a contract that I had significant profit in. 
   I can think of one in particular where I was able to purchase some materials because I negotiated. I played my cards right, I went and built those relationships with all the people that were involved. It was a string of people through bankruptcy and banks. In the process of doing that, everything had to come together just right. The timing had to be just right. I was at great risk if I was not successful in putting that all together so that I could buy a large quantity of dirt for a reasonable price and it was handy. 
   In fact, when I first talked to the banker about that piece of land, he said it would take $25,000 just to retain an attorney to represent me in negotiating the purchase of that. That gives you a measure of how difficult it was. But, in fact, I was successful purchasing that earth on that farm for the purposes of taking it into a project we were building, and, of course, I made some money. 
   If I had been wrong, if I hadn't been able to complete that purchase, then it would have cost me a lot of money. But when the time came, the owners sat me down, and the engineers sat me down, and they said, well, we see that you are making money here, and now we would like you to discount the work you are doing because we think you can afford to do that. 
   I looked them in the face, and I thought, well, why are you asking me to give some of my profit over to the owners? Isn't it all justly earned? And isn't it ethical, and didn't I bid this for a price, and was not it low bid? Not a no bid, but a low-bid contract? They said, well, yes, but we think that you have some to give, and so we are asking you to discount your work, do it more cleanly, because we think you can afford to. 
   Well, what principle are you basing that judgment on because someone can't afford to discount something? How can you ask them to do that in a free enterprise society? I asked that question of the engineers, and they said, well, again, we they think that you can afford to do that. 
   So let me ask you a question. If I had lost my shirt on this job, which I likely could have done, and maybe even lost my business, would you have stepped up and said things didn't go so well for you, here is some extra? They just smiled and snickered a little bit because they knew it was ludicrous to think that when things go bad that there is going to be anybody in there holding my hand or ExxonMobil's hands or Shell's or Chevron's or anybody else's. They suffer all of their losses, and they have to have a margin in the work that they do. 
   We must have successful companies here operating out of the United States, and especially developing our domestic supplies of energy. If we fail to do that, then we are absolutely dependent upon middle eastern oil. If we are up to that 60 percent or so of our oil that is imported now, think what it would be like, Madam Speaker, if it was 100 percent. 
   So this effort to go down here and argue that we will see energy dependence under Pelosi's term here in Congress, I would submit that they have done anything but. They have changed the deal and said the Federal Government's word is not good, we want a tax, windfall profits. If we can find a way where we are jealous of your profit, we will find a way where we can take it and put it into the government coffers. 
   A company that will look at that is going to take their profits and decide why do I want to invest my profits in further exploration if the Federal Government is going to come in and cancel the deal, which they have done. I will submit that, perhaps, $40 million that may be available, and it is probably a lot more than that is available for exploration, that will continue to put oil supply on the market. 
   I would submit that it is more likely that exploration investment will go overseas to foreign countries, and perhaps even into the Middle East and places where we don't have such a stable environment, while we sit on massive supplies and energy here in the United States, not because the oil is not there, not because the natural gas isn't there, but because this Congress has become a jealous Congress. This Congress has become a vindictive Congress. This Congress has become a Congress that has decided that they are going to play legislative corporate class envy against companies that are providing an economic supply of energy to this country. 
   I have always had the view that if I didn't like the way someone was doing business, if I thought they were making too much profit, then that should say to the whole world, well, there is opportunity there. If Exxon is making all of this profit, and it has made so many people irate that out of six or eight speakers two of them come to the floor to speak about that very thing, then I would submit, go out and start your own oil company. 
   That is the American way. You have a chance to do whatever you want to do in this country. Go ahead and get an investor's group together, or go buy up a group of oil companies, put them together and go out there, and invest your capital, see how you do. 
   In fact, I welcome that. I think we need a lot of competition, and we need a lot of exploration, and we need to be developing our oil supplies more now than we ever have before. This is the time to push, because perhaps a generation from now we will have transitioned into a lot of other kinds of fuel and gas and oil will not be so important and will not be so relevant any longer. It isn't just the gas and the oil and the fuel that comes from our crude oil, but it is all the other energy supplies out there. 
   Now, I understand that the other side of the aisle and the Pelosi plan is going to include some things like conservation, and I suspect reasonable conservation measures. I think it is awfully hard to legislate. I think the markets do more for that than we could probably do with legislation. Conservation is a component. But I would ask to put in your mind's eye the idea that I call the energy pie. The energy pie, shaped like a clock, for example, but slices of that pie, pieces of the pie, or the components of it would come from all of the areas where we get energy. 
   So I would submit that a certain percentage of our overall BTU consumption in America is gasoline. Some is diesel fuel. Some is fuel oil. Then those hydrocarbons that come from crude oil, and then, in addition to that, we have a lot of our electricity, significant amount comes from hydroelectric and nuclear and coal fired, especially clean coal fired, and we also, then, out of that energy, then, in addition to that, we have our ethanol, our biodiesel. We have hydrogen. There is a whole list of sources for energy in America, and we need to look at that, like all the BTUs consumed in America, a big energy pie, and then reprioritize that. Let us change the size of the pieces and grow the size of the energy pie. 
   I want more BTUs on the market. I want a lot more energy on the market. I want to go everywhere we can to get that energy and pour it into the marketplace and do it so that we can supply more BTUs than we are using. 
   If we can do that, we can drive down the cost of all energy. We need to do that by adding it by component by component. The ethanol, the biodiesel, more coal, more wind, I left that out, the hydrogen, on the horizon, the cellulosic ethanol that is coming, piece after piece of this energy pie needs to be added together. Then we change the proportion of the pieces so that gasoline from middle eastern oil becomes a smaller piece, and diesel fuel from middle eastern oil becomes a smaller piece. 
   Ethanol becomes a larger piece. Biodiesel becomes a larger piece. Cellulosic down the line a half a decade from now can really start to take hold, and we can replace some of the electricity that is being generated by the natural gas with wind energy, and that is an environmentally friendly and conservation approach that is good for our environment. 
   All of these tools are at our disposal, but one of the tools we seem to use is we want to punish the corporations that are busily contributing to growing the size of the energy pie, and also diversifying some of their investments so they aren't just locked into the petroleum but adding the diversification out there, so that they can contribute also to adjusting the size of the pieces in this larger growing energy pie. 
   That is how this needs to be done. We need to be doing it by complimenting the companies that are competing in the open market, not by punishing them, not by defying the rules of free enterprise with Congressional action, not by changing the deal, not by jerking the rug out from underneath. I would suggest that there is a Chevron find in the Gulf of Mexico, I understand it is about 265 miles southwest of New Orleans, that may add as much as a 50 percent more to the overall reserves or the overall production of oil in the United States. 
   With that field opening up, and the necessity to open up in ANWR, we can, if we are aggressive, we can reduce dramatically our dependency on foreign oil, and then, of course, we add to that the renewable energies that I have talked about. We can get there. We will not get there if we scare our companies off, if we punish them for doing good and doing the right thing. 
   So I will move from that energy discussion and move to the discussion by the gentleman, Mr. Andrews, on Iran. I want to compliment him for the tone and the thoughtfulness and the constitutional discussion that he brought here to the floor. I have no doubt that he understands the Constitution, and he is correct when he says the power to declare a war is with this Congress constitutionally. 
   But, also, the commander in chief of our military is the President of the United States, and that is clear, and that is a constitutional principle that should not be challenged by this Congress. He is the commander in chief. 
   There is nothing in the Constitution that says Congress shall have the authority to declare a war and then micromanage every little operation of that war. Simply when Congress declares war, they say we send a message to all sovereign nations in the world that we are at war with whichever sovereign nations may be the subject of that declaration. 
   That declaration shows the commitment of Congress to support our troops and their mission. I will say that again, to support our troops and their mission, and the lead troop is the commander in chief, the President of the United States, George W. Bush, who does call these shots. 
   Our founding fathers understood you cannot fight a war by committee, and you can't put your finger into the wind and ask the public to poll and ask how you should go about fighting a war. If we are going to sit here and say, well, the public polls say that the support for the operations in Iraq, the battleground of Iraq, which is a battleground in the broader global war on terror, if we are going to take the position that this Congress can steal the polls and make military recommendations or pass edicts here or take the budget and squeeze down our support for our troops or shut it off like they did at the end of the Vietnam War, that we can micromanage a war from the floor of the Congress? 
   It is a ridiculous concept, and it was a ridiculous concept for the President of the United States during the Vietnam War, to micromanage that war. President Johnson should have turned that over to his military personnel at the joint chiefs of staffs, who would have relied upon their commanders in the field. If they were not satisfied with those results, they would have changed them. It is the prerogative of the President to remove generals and appoint new generals. 
   Of course, the Senate confirms those higher appointments, as we saw happen a little over a week ago, with the confirmation of General David Petraeus. 
   Now, we find ourselves in this odd dichotomy here, this odd contradiction, where Congress has, and I am speaking, I should say specifically, the Senate has unanimously endorsed the President's choice to be the commander of all operations in Iraq, General David Petraeus. 
   Personally, I would put into the Record that he is the singular most impressive individual that I have met in a military uniform in my lifetime. I do not believe that there could be another choice. I do not believe that there could be a better choice to head up these operations in this new way forward in Iraq than General David Petraeus.     
   Not only does he understand the overall strategy, he has written the book on counterinsurgencies. He spent years in Iraq. I first met him over there in October of 2003 where he commanded the 101st Airborne that had gone in and liberated the region about three provinces and in the region of Mosul. And there, as I sat and received a briefing from him, I will tell this little anecdote about General Petraeus, that is, he started to give a briefing.  
   And it was in a way, a classical Powerpoint slide show, but a slide show of pictures, the reality of what had taken place there. And he had a cordless microphone. 
   Now I do not get very many briefings that last an hour and a half, unless I happen to be the one that is delivering them. But General Petraeus spoke for about an hour or a little more, and the battery went dead on his microphone. The moment before the battery went dead, he had picked up another microphone that was laying there, and without even breaking stride, laid the one down, picked the microphone up with the fresh battery in it, and proceeded to complete that briefing that lasted about 90 minutes. 
   He had the solution sitting there waiting for the problem. He used every single minute of the 90 minutes extraordinarily effectively. Not only did he talk about politics and tactics and the military deployment that they had there, the difficulties that they had faced, he talked about how he had called for elections in Mosul. 
   Mosul was liberated in late March 2003. They had elections there in May of 2003. And at the table later on the next day, I met with the new governor of Mosul and the vice-governor of Moss, one a Shiia, one a Kurd. One might have been a Sunni and the other was a Kurd. But regardless, he had representatives from two different sectarian factions there, and then a business leader at the table who was proficient in English. 
   You could tell by the eye contact of those three men, they were a team that was working together. General Petraeus understood the military and the tactics, understands them better today than he did then, and he understood them very well then. He understands the politics. He understands the economics. And he studied this. It has been his focus, it has been his life. He loves his soldiers. I am looking forward to a completion of this mission in Iraq that will be I believe a successful mission. 
   Mr. Andrews spoke about Iran. I digressed a bit before I get to that point. I support his constitutional conclusion that Congress alone declares war. But I would submit, in addition to that statement, that the Commander in Chief calls the shots. We declare war, if that is what the situation calls for. 
   And then Congress shall not get in the way and micromanage the operations. No war by committee, Madam Speaker, and no interference here on the part of these Members of Congress, except if they have an issue then they can do, behind-the-doors oversight. They can have those conversations. The President's door is open to the leadership of this Congress. We know that. 
   If they have those kind of issues, they want to discuss, we have classified briefings here. There are plenty of opportunities for oversight. If not, you can ask for opportunities for oversight. But to set up this Congress and to use the committees and use the committee chairs and the ranking members to somehow configure a away to bring in motions and micromanage a war is a guaranteed military debacle. There has never been a successful committee operation fighting a war in history, and there is no way that you can set a precedent here out of this Congress, especially as divided and as defeatist as it is on the majority side of the aisle. 
   It seems to me that the will to win this war runs a successful clear distinct victory that would be written by the historians as a distant victory, is not really something that is loved and anticipated by the people on the other side of the aisle. And this is not a stretch that comes out of my imagination, Madam Speaker. But it is simply an observation from in this Chamber, when the Commander in Chief gave his State of the Union Address last month, now when he spoke about committing to victory in Iraq, one-half of this Chamber stood in a thunderous standing ovation, and the other half of the Chamber, Madam Speaker, sat on their hands in silence, disgraceful silence. 
   Could they not know that our troops in the field have televisions in real time over there in Iraq and in Afghanistan, and in other parts where our troops are today, supporting our troops that are in the front lines? Could they not know that our commanders all the way down the line to the privates are watching this disgraceful lack of support? Their lives are on the line, and they will hear Members from this side of the aisle to a man and to a woman say, I support the troops. I support the troops. I support the troops. 
   And the question to follow is, what about their mission? Do you support their mission? And that is when you cannot get a question answer from hardly anybody on the Democratic side of the aisle. In fact, the Speaker herself declined to say yes to that point blank question sometime in December of last year. 
   She said it was not a matter of victory, it was a matter of managing. Well, they want to manage their way out of there, and I will submit that the rule of warfare is, victory goes to the side that is occupying the territory at the end of the war. You cannot lift people off with helicopters off a U.S. embassy in places like Saigon, and say, well, we really won the war, we tactically won the war, we did not lose a battle, we won, we left because we wanted to, it was kind of an asterisk that those things happened down there. 
   We tactically did win every battle. And our U.S. military performed courageously, heroically, and gloriously. And they need to be honored by every generation from here on out. But we did not win the battle of who stood on the terrain at the end. 
   And these enemies that we have in the Middle East are a philosophical enemy that goes deep back into history. And before I go deep back into history, I will speak again to the Iranian issue of Mr. Andrews, which is, he criticized the regime of Iran. I agree with him. 
   It is an unstable leader that they have. And they have some mullahs that seem to be directing the action of that unstable leader. So that cabal in the middle appears to me to be, from our view, from our Western civilization view, an irrational group of leaders. 
   He said the regime must never have a nuclear weapon. I agree, Mr. Andrews, 100 percent, they must never have a nuclear weapon. And yet we cannot go forward. He said we cannot go for a reckless premature action against Iran. I agree with that as well. It cannot be reckless, it cannot be premature. 
   But does anybody really think that we can make nice enough, talk nice enough, be reasonable enough and take our case to the Iranians and say somehow can we just put out an olive branch here, and have an open discussion and find out what our disagreements. Does anybody really think that Ahmadinejad or the mullahs would just then peacefully come to the table, and they could be reasoned into a position of giving up their nuclear weapons? 
   I mean, they came out yesterday, and their announcement was that they will continue to develop their nuclear weapons, and they say they have a right to do so. But does anybody believe that they can be talked out of them? I am wondering what it is about human nature that I see this so clearly that they have gone down this path, they will not let go, they will not give up. 
   Why does anybody on that side of the aisle, Madam Speaker, think that they can debate Ahmadinejad into giving up his nuclear missiles and his nuclear technology and ability, when I would ask them, how long has it been since you have seen anybody in this Congress change their mind because of the shear force of a debate? 
   I mean, these are not so momentous a decision that we make, but we come down here on the floor. And how often can anyone point to a single time that they have said something that was so profound, so honest, so insightful that another Member said, I did not know that. I am on your side, I will switch my position, change my vote, I will be with you because you made sense. 
   It is so utterly rare in this Congress, why would the gentleman believe that we could send negotiators over to Iran, and they would say, well, it makes sense to me. We will just demolish all of that nuclear capability. We want to sign a peace treaty with you all. We will start trading and it will be a wonderful world again. 
   The reason that we have a problem there is because we have a fundamental philosophical disagreement and misunderstanding. This began in Iran when President Jimmy Carter's belief in supporting religious fundamentalists caused him to support the return of the Ayatollah and the demise of the Shaw in Iran.  
   And when that happened in 1979, that was the beginning of the hostile Iran. And it did not take very long before we saw 444 days, 52 American hostages paraded regularly in front of our television trying to humiliate the United States. And some believe that Ahmadinejad was part of that group, they think they have pictures that show him there, a kidnapper of American diplomats. 
   I do not know. I do not know if that is true or if it is not true. But he certainly was not opposed to that that we know. He is for the annihilation of Israel, the annihilation of the United States, these dictators tell us what they think, and often they follow through on the those actions. 
   And so, no, I do not trust the Iranian leadership, I do trust a lot of the Iranian people. And I would trust the Iranian people to capture their freedom if given the chance. I would paint this image in the mind's eye, Mr. Speaker, of all who might be contemplating this. 
   In the map you will see Iraq to the west and Afghanistan to the east. And right in the middle, linked together bordering the two countries is Iran. 
   Now, I will argue that Afghanistan today is a free country. And our troops were on the ground guarding the polling places. The first time ever in the history of the world that since Adam that there had been any votes that took place on that soil. 
   Today it is a fledgling democracy. It has its problems. Certainly it will. We had our problems in the early years. We have our problems today. It is never pretty. It is always difficult. But it is always worth the effort. But Afghanistan is a free country. Iraq is technically a free country today. 
   The part that diminishes that freedom is the 80 percent of the violence that takes place in Baghdad and within 30 miles of Baghdad. But Iraq, much of Iraq is peaceful, it is pacified and it is becoming prosperous. I went over there the last time, over the last Thanksgiving, I actually spent my Thanksgiving Day eating dinner with a good number of wounded troops in Landstuhl, Germany, at the hospital, and encouraged by their courage. 
   That was the most monumental and profound Thanksgiving that I have ever had or ever hope or expect to have. And from there, I traveled over to Iraq where I did spend a couple of days in the Baghdad area, and then I went to a camp, a forward operating base just out of Baghdad, and then on up into Erbil in the north, in the Kurdish area in the north. 
   I have been to most corners of Iraq over the last few years. I try to get there as often as I can to get a feel for what is going on. I do not think it is possible to understand that operation over there without going there. I was encouraged by the level of peace and the growing prosperity, especially that that I saw in Erbil and up in the Kurdish area. 
   You get out of the plane there, take off your flack jacket, toss your helmet in the back, and walk across to the parliament. I sat down with some members of parliament there. And then they cooked also a turkey Thanksgiving dinner that was something that I have not seen done as well in this country. Gregarious hosts and wonderful people. That is how I find most of the Iraqi people. 
   I do not accept a 60-percent number that was delivered here by the gentleman from Georgia, that 60 percent of the Iraqis believe it is good or okay to be attacking Americans. I do not know where that poll would come from. Maybe if you polled the terrorists you would get a number like that. 
   But I do not believe, Madam Speaker, that that is the sentiment of the Iraqi people. The Iraqi people are grateful that the United States has stepped in to liberate them. There is a bit of a power vacuum, especially in Baghdad. 
   The President's plan is to go in and fill that power vacuum. Muqtada al-Sadr has done a job in filling that power vacuum. And he has been supported and funded and armed by Ahmadinejad's people in Iran. Iran is fighting a proxy war against the United States within Iraq. 
   You also have Syria fighting a lesser effective but to a lesser degree a proxy war against the United States in Iraq. When the President came out shortly after September 11, he said if you harbor terrorists, fund terrorists, train terrorists, you are a terrorist and we will treat you as a terrorist state.     
   Iran is one of those countries. Syria is one of those countries. I know of no example in the history of the world where an insurgency that could go back and hide and have sanctuary in a sovereign state has ever been defeated. You have to take your battle where the insurgency is. And if they have got a sanctuary you have to go to their sanctuary. 
   That doesn't mean that we need to take on Iran. It means that we have got to eliminate sanctuaries. And we cannot delude ourselves into believing that we can negotiate a nuclear capability away from Iran. It would be just utterly ineffective because they have a goal and they have a vision. 
   And from that point I would submit that the background here of United States history, American history, instructs us on what has been historically, and is relevant to today. Madam Speaker, I would submit that back in 1783 would be the period of time when the new United States made peace with Great Britain. And at that time, we had an American Merchant Marine that was sailing the world and trading. We have always been a very effective seafaring nation. And as our American Merchant Marine sailed and traded to the world and they went into the Mediterranean, up until 1783 they had the protection of the British Navy because we were, up until 1776, at least a colony of the British, and so we are now rectified of their Navy. 
   But when we were recognized by Britain and began to fly the American flag, and were not under the protection of the Union Jack, 1783, America made peace with Britain; and then, 1784, the first American ship was captured by pirates from Morocco. Thus began the Barbary wars where we took on the Barbary pirates. From 1784 and on up until about 1815, the United States was engaged sporadically and periodically, but actually almost continually in a war again the Barbary pirates along the Barbary Coast. 
   And before I go into that, Madam Speaker, I need to give a little bit more of the history of that region. Barbary pirates in that region had been raiding the Mediterranean shoreline, especially the European side of that, for years. And I will submit that they had been raiding the shoreline for almost 300 years at that point in 1784 when they captured the first American vessel. 
   Beginning about 1500, 1502, 1503 is when the Barbary pirates began an active and aggressive pirating of merchant marines that were sailing into the Mediterranean. And their goal was, capture the ship and the cargo and the crew. And the most valuable portion of that was all too often the crew, because they were pressed into slavery, Madam Speaker. And they brought back European slaves to the Barbary Coast where they pressed them into slavery. 
   And they built many of the edifices that you see there today, the old architecture from the 1500 era and on, clear on into the early 1800s, about 1830; much of that work was done by Christian slaves that were pressed into slavery by Muslim masters. And, in fact, there is a book written by a professor at Ohio State University called Christian Slaves and Muslim Masters. And he has gone back and studied the coastline, the European coastline of the Mediterranean and old church records and other family records and old family Bibles and put together a credible history of the slave trade by the Barbary pirates as they moved in with their corsairs and took over the merchant marine, the merchant ships from Europe. 
   The Barbary pirates raided the shoreline all around Greece and Italy and France and Spain and all the way up the coastline of France and the Atlantic into England and on over as far north as Iceland. In fact, there is a fairly detailed commentary about 400 Icelanders who were pulled from their beds at night just near the shore of Iceland, pressed into slavery and sailed back down to the Barbary Coast on the north shore of Africa. 
   And of all of the slaves that were captured along all of that coastline, from Greece all the way up to Iceland, these Icelanders survived the least, and they perished the most. They got the least amount of work out of them and they died the most quickly. And that happens to be some remarks that are written into the historical documents.  
   Some say it had to do with the climate change. Some say it had to do with the work they pressed them in. Some say it had to do with their hearts being utterly broken that they were pressed into slavery, and they just lost their will to live. But there is very little, if any, genetic remnant of those slaves today because the men that were pressed into slavery, and it was almost all men, they were never allowed an opportunity to do anything but walk in their chains and row the corsairs, or else do their slave labor, building the buildings and doing the kind of construction work that built those cities. 
   They didn't have an opportunity to procreate, so you don't see their genetics in the faces of the people that live on that part of the continent today. Occasionally, I am told that there are some blue eyes that pop up that look like they might be the descendants of the women who were captured aboard ship or offshore, who were pressed into, I will say concubinery. 
   And so there are some descendants from that, but it is very little, from remnants. But all together, Professor Davis documents about 1.25 million Christian slaves that were pressed into slavery by the Barbary pirates, and this period of time would be from about 1500 on to about 1583. 
   Well, it continued from that point forward, and Europe built a practice of paying tribute to the pirates and seeking to purchase back their most valuable citizens. And it would be those men and women of substance. If they had a wealthy family, then they would try to go and pay tribute to get that member of the family back. That went on for hundreds of years. 
   There was a pattern there. It was a business that was being run. And when the United States found themselves sucked into that in 1784 when our first ship was captured by the pirates from Morocco, that began the long conflict that lasted until at least 1815. 
   And one will remember that the United States took a posture eventually; we paid tribute here, Madam Speaker, out of this Congress to the Barbary pirates. And some of those line items that I have seen were as high as $250,000 to pay tribute to the Barbary pirates, but that would be just one line item. And, in fact, that was a line item that was refused. But we paid more than that on an annual basis, and that tribute, that bribery got so high that it became as high as 20 percent of the entire Federal budget to pay off the pirates in the Barbary Coast. 
   And so we decided that we couldn't afford this any longer, and we had two alternatives. One was to outfit a Navy and a Marine Corps and send them over there to punish the Barbary pirates and get them to back off of any vessel that flew the Stars and Stripes. So we sent our best diplomats over there to negotiate with the Barbary pirates; and I don't know that we have diplomats of that standing today, but historically they will stand very high in the mind's eye of Americans, Madam Speaker. 
   And so in 1786 Thomas Jefferson, who was then the ambassador to France, and John Adams, who was the ambassador to Britain, met in London with, and I don't have this name memorized, met in London with Sidi Haji Abdul Rahman Adja, the ambassador to Britain from Tripoli. Our American ambassadors, Jefferson and Adams, ambassadors to France and Britain respectively, asked Adja why his government was hostile to American ships, that even though there had been no provocation, his government was hostile to American ships. The ambassador's response was reported to the Continental Congress, and is a part of the permanent record today that can be reviewed over in the Library of Congress. 
   The response from Sidi Haji Abdul Rahman Adja, the ambassador to Britain from Tripoli, I will repeat, was this, and I quote, ``It was founded on the laws of their prophet, that it was written in their Koran, that all nations who should not have acknowledged their authority were sinners, that it was their right and duty to make war upon them wherever they could be found and to make slaves of all they could take as prisoners, and that every Musselman,'' and that is the term for a Muslim today, ``who should be slain in battle was sure to go to paradise.'' 
   Sound familiar, Madam Speaker, to some of the things that we hear today? 
   And Jefferson's analysis, his comments upon that valiant effort at diplomacy, an effort that has been suggested by Mr. Andrews here this evening, Jefferson's analysis was this, and I will paraphrase and summarize and not quote, but it is hard to reach common ground, it is hard to negotiate with people whose profound religious belief is that their salvation is from killing you. 
   1786; 2006-2007. We think we have come a long way; we may have not gained a single inch in this disagreement, just had some interim conflicts and relative periods of peace. I think the American people need to understand this. 
   And so out of the failure of that diplomatic effort, that valiant diplomatic effort, the United States Navy was born, March 1794. The Marine Corps joined with the Navy and they went to the shores of Tripoli. And that is today in the Marine Corps anthem, ``From the halls of Montezuma, to the shores of Tripoli.'' 
   And our Navy was fitted, and they designed frigates for Americans, and these frigates had superior speed and superior maneuverability, very much an American thing. That was the first time that Americans went to war after the ratification of their Constitution, and they went to war with the most modern frigates that had a tactical advantage because the technology that was developed by the innovative nature and the inventiveness of American shipbuilders. And today we are off in space with that same kind of innovation. 
   The Marines, when they went to the shores of Tripoli, they knew what they were up against to some degree. 
   And Madam Speaker, we have all heard Marines called Leathernecks. Most don't recall, Marines got the nickname Leathernecks because they put leather collars around their neck, thick leather collars when they went into battle to reduce the chance that they would be beheaded by the enemy. That is how Marines got the nickname Leathernecks. They got that nickname over 200 years ago, and it is part of their history and part of their lore. And the shores of Tripoli are engraved on their Iwo Jima monument over across the Potomac River. 
   And so we need to go back and revisit history, Madam Speaker, and understand that this enemy is driven by the same philosophy. They still believe their path to salvation is in killing us. There are passages in the Koran that support this almost verbatim that I have happened to have read. 
   Thomas Jefferson had a Koran. I understand that Koran came to this Congress to be used in a swearing-in ceremony. Some say that he leaned towards Islam because he owned a Koran. I will submit that Thomas Jefferson also studied Greek, and he had a Greek Bible; he wanted to be able to understand the passages in the Bible from the perspective of the Greek, rather than relying on the translations from Greek into an English version. 
   Thomas Jefferson was perhaps the preeminent scholar of his time, maybe the preeminent scholar in our history. He took his work seriously. Of course he needed to understand ``nosce hostem,'' which is Latin for ``know thy enemy.'' And that would absolutely be the reason why Thomas Jefferson acquired a Koran, so he could understand that enemy that said that it is written in their Koran that all nations who should not have acknowledged their authority were sinners, that it was their right and duty to make war upon them wherever they could be found, and to make slaves of all they could take as prisoners, and that every Muslim who should be slain in battle was sure to go to paradise. 
   What a promise to make. And when that is a profound religion, it is impossible to negotiate with. So what we did, we went to war against them, and over time put them in a position where they needed to sue for peace. 
   And I will submit also that Algiers came under attack from the British twice and the French once. And they didn't cease their attacks on Western Europe--I will say Western civilization and the shipping industry within the Mediterranean as a piracy approach, as a government policy. They didn't cease those attacks until 1830 when the French went in and occupied Algiers. 
   And so here we are today with an enemy, globally, in the world, which is a segment of Islam. And I certainly respect and appreciate moderate Islam. I  ask them to step forward and be our allies. I believe they are a peaceful people and a good-hearted people. And the more I travel and the more people I meet, the greater my respect and admiration for the goodness of humanity is. 
   But there is an element within Islam that is radical Islam, the jihadists, the Islamists, as Daniel Pipes has named them. That element is a significantly large element and there are maybe 1.2 to 1.3 billion Muslims in the world. And according to Daniel Pipes, our Benazir Bhutto, 10 percent, and according to Pipes, perhaps as many as 15 percent, are inclined to be supportive of al Qaeda. 
   Now, if it is 10 percent you are looking at 130 million. If it is 15 percent, add half again to that. That is a huge number of people who philosophically believe that their path to salvation is in killing us, and that they don't really take a risk with their destiny when they attack us because if they are killed in the process, they will surely go to paradise.     
   That is the enemy that we are against, Madam Speaker. 
   Madam Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time I have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE WAR ON TERROR -- (House of Representatives - February 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. And so here we are today with a Congress that wants to micromanage a war, and a resolution or two or three over in the Senate that undermine our troops, and a resolution promise to come to the floor of this House next week that undermines our troops. As I have submitted, you cannot win a war by committee. You cannot fight a war by committee, but you can undermine the mission and you can put your troops at risk by doing so. 
   We have top-notch commanders in the field, Madam Speaker. They have demonstrated their ability. We have the best military ever put into the field. Their morale is strong, their technology is there, their training is high. Their sense of mission and duty and sacrifice is strong and is profound. They want to complete their mission. 
   I traveled over there with a lieutenant colonel who said to me, Don't pull us out of this. Don't save me. Don't save me. I volunteered. I am willing to take this risk. I want to take this burden off of my children. That is my duty to my country and to my family. I want to take this burden off my children. Don't try to save me. 
   I had some Gold Star families in my office a couple of months ago, shortly before I went to Iraq, Gold Star families who have lost a son or a daughter in combat over in either Afghanistan or Iraq. As I listened to them, they just intensely pleaded with me, Do everything you can to promote a successful mission. We have heard much of the dialogue, but to look them in the eye and understand that intensity. And then, one of the bereaved fathers from California, his first name was John, said to me, It's different now. Our children have gone over there and fought and died on that soil. The soil in Iraq is sanctified by their blood. They paid their price for the freedom of the Iraqi people. You cannot walk away and leave that now. That is the vision of the Gold Star families. That is the commitment of our military. 
   I can't find people in uniform in Iraq that don't support the mission, that aren't committed to the cause. But they ask me, why do we have to fight the enemy over here, the news media over in the United States, and the people that are undermining us in the United States Congress? It is an undermining. And I will make this prediction, Madam Speaker, that before this 110th Congress is adjourned, there will be an amendment or a bill that comes to this floor that seeks to unfund our military, one that is written off the pattern of the one at the end of Vietnam. And if that amendment comes and it is successful and it shuts off funding and our troops are forced by a defeatist attitude in Congress to pull out of Iraq, you will see a human suffering like this world has not seen since World War II. 
   The price for failing to succeed will be cataclysmic. I don't have enough minutes to go into the description of all of that. 
   But I will submit that we either succeed victoriously and leave Iraq a free democratic Iraq that can stand on its own two feet and defend itself and be represented by its people, we either do that, or the last battle in Iraq won't be fought over there, Madam Speaker. It will be fought here on the floor of this Congress through an appropriations bill that will seek to jerk the rug out from underneath our sacrificing military. And it would put this country in utter disgrace if that were to happen. 
   So I have introduced a resolution, a resolution that supports and endorses our troops, one that recognizes the circumstances that we are in, the constitutional power and authority of our Commander in Chief, and stands up and defends our troops and our military all the way down the line. It says, in fact, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group says on page 73 that it could support a short-term redeployment or surge of American combat forces to stabilize Baghdad or to speed up the training and equipping mission if the U.S. commander in Iraq determines that such steps would be effective. 
   General Petraeus has written the plan. He has determined it would be effective; it is consistent with the Iraq Study Group, page 73. Look it up. General Petraeus has endorsed the plan, as I said. And on top of that, the cochair of the Iraq Study Group, former Secretary of State James Baker III, came back to this Congress and said: The President's plan ought to be given a chance. He wants us to support the Iraq Study Group, and that is the President's plan. That means a free and liberated Iraq, not a cut and run. 
   Honor the troops for their service and honor their mission, and in fact honor their sacrifice. And I will fight this battle here where it is at greatest risk, Madam Speaker. And I urge my colleagues to do the same. 
   I look forward to the debate next week and the open dialogue, and I hope that there is a rule that is offered here under the promise of this new and open Congress that would allow for amendments to be brought to the floor so that resolutions of this type actually have an opportunity to be debated in this Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (GREAT AMERICANS -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Well, I really thank the gentleman from California as I reclaim my time, and I'd be glad to yield however much time might be needed to continue the compliments to myself. I'll be quite as generous with that particular time. 
   But I want to say, Mr. Duncan Hunter from California is a brave and great patriot and has poured forth his appreciation for many of his colleagues, and I'm sure as the months unfold we'll hear this emerge in many accolades for the accomplishments of Duncan Hunter. 
   And I want to say as you came to Iowa to campaign for the Presidency, and sometimes it was late nights, and it was often early mornings. And I remember this situation, the night of the straw poll, August 11, 2007, when it was the big test. And everybody had to count their straw polls and votes that came in, and however that shook out, that gave some people momentum, and other people lost momentum. And some people that had momentum had already left the State before the votes were counted. 
   But I had an early press call to be down to the State Fair on the east side of Des Moines fairly early the following morning. It was a Sunday morning. I arrived there, but I had to wait in line because Duncan Hunter was there with his cowboy hat, and he was already working the State Fair. I don't know if it was before the sun came up, but it was right away in the morning. That's the kind of tenacity that we expect in your successor, and I yield back to you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (GREAT AMERICANS -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. There is that. And we have some county fairs that are larger than a lot of State fairs. 
   We live our fairs there in the State and we live our politics. And it's all politics all the time, 24/7. And that brings people to where they're paying attention to the issues and they take it seriously. And we have a statewide conversation going on constantly--over the telephones, the e-mail, over the back yard, in the coffee shop, at the fairs, all the activities that are going on. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (GREAT AMERICANS -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Thanks for your comments. I thank, again, the gentleman from California as I reclaim the balance of my time. 
   I think that my transition, as I watch the former chairman of the Armed Services Committee walk from the floor, I take this over to the subject matter of Iraq and Afghanistan, Mr. Speaker. It's been a little while since we've had intense discussions on that here on the floor. 
   I would point out, as a matter of refreshment to those who haven't been so focused on our situation, we are a country at war. And we were attacked on September 11, 2001 and we lost 3,000 Americans in those three locations where we were attacked. 
   The President then launched an offensive in Afghanistan, drove the Taliban out of Afghanistan, and people on that land voted for the first time in the history of man. Ever since Adam and Eve there hadn't been people go to the polls in Afghanistan. That happened fairly quickly; I believe it was about a little more than 1 year from the time that we went in. 
   And in Iraq, where Saddam Hussein was violating, let me say, the United Nations Resolution 1441--and many others--the decision was made, based upon global intelligence, to go in and remove that tyrant who was killing his own people on a regular basis. He had started a war against Iran, where there were more than 1 million killed. And he had used weapons of mass destruction to destroy thousands of his own country men, women and children. 
   I have made a number of trips into Iraq. I sat with the chief justice who was on the panel that was lined up to try Saddam. And I asked the chief justice and the other justices, what is the penalty that Saddam is looking at? Now, he was in jail, and no one knew whether he was going to face the death penalty. And one of the other junior judges tried to explain to me, and he said that the penalty that Saddam is facing, well, we have a series of penalties; we have prison terms, we have life without parole--well, actually, he said we have the death penalty, then we have life in prison, and then we have other shorter terms, and it goes on down just like it does in the United States. 
   And as I watched the chief justice listen to the more junior justice explain that to me--which didn't explain a lot, actually--the chief justice, sitting there with a big white mustache, was tapping his pencil on the table and he wanted to be recognized. And I turned  to him for clarification and he said, Saddam is charged with crimes against humanity. Under Iraqi law, there is only one penalty, and that's death. And that's, ladies and gentlemen, when the world found out that Saddam was actually facing a death penalty. And about a year later then he did meet the end of his rope. 
   And that was a dramatic time in the history of Iraq. It took the fear away from the Iraqis. They were never sure whether he was going to emerge, whether he would be found not guilty and released onto the streets. They were never sure if he would light up again or reconfigure his Baathist political machine, reestablish his force of tyranny across the country, take over the control of the people and terrorize the Shias, and control the oil again and use that country for his own evil purposes. They knew that Uday and Qusay were dead, but they didn't know that Saddam would not come back until they knew he was dead as well. That changed the dynamics in Iraq. And thousands, in fact, millions of Iraqis are grateful for the sacrifice that's been made by coalition troops, American troops and American taxpayers, who have given up a fair amount of treasure to match a significantly large loss of blood and humanity in that country. 
   But what do we have today and where are we today and how did we get here? Well, in this Congress, this 110th Congress, Mr. Speaker, when Nancy Pelosi took the gavel--I will not forget that moment in time--and they began, on that side of the aisle, to bring resolutions to the floor in an attempt to unfund the war in Iraq. A whole series of pieces of legislation came raining down in this 110th Congress, directed to the floor, approved to coming to the floor by Speaker Pelosi, forty resolutions to undermine our military effort in Iraq. Forty different resolutions on the floor of this Congress calling for votes, trying to divide us, trying to see where they could find a way where they could squeeze off the resources to our military and ensure defeat, which is what it surely would have done. But we stood up, and we put the pressure back on the other side. And enough Democrats voted with Republicans to save this agenda that so many have sacrificed their lives and their blood for. 
   When I talk to the soldiers that serve there, and the airmen and the Marines and the Navy personnel, and when I talk to the parents who have lost a son or a daughter, they say, You can't pull us out of this fight. Don't do this to us, please. We're all volunteers. 
   We're all volunteers here to carry out this mission. We want to take this fight away from our children and our grandchildren. We want it done in our time. 
   They put their lives on the line and they set aside years of their lives, many of them multiple deployments to go over there, 100 percent of them volunteers. Not just for the military. They didn't just sign up, they knew when they signed up or when they re-upped that the odds were good that they would be deployed into the theater of either Iraq or Afghanistan. 
   And so they're all volunteers, Mr. Speaker. And they volunteer because they love this country, they understand our history, and they understand that we need to direct its destiny, not people that live in foreign countries, not the people that hate America, but the people that love America are the ones that protect our destiny. They're in uniform, they're in places like Iraq and Afghanistan, they're standing up and defending our freedom, and we need to stand with them. 
   And so I'm troubled, Mr. Speaker, when I pick up an op-ed, and it was written by the junior Senator from Illinois, the junior Senator who served 147 days in the United States Senate, his only Federal office exposure, until he decided that he wanted to be the President of the United States. That junior Senator has been to Iraq one time, one time almost 900 days ago, but for more than 900 days he said, We've got to get out of Iraq, we've got to get out now, we've got to pull our troops immediately out of Iraq. And the only conditions are leave a rear guard there to guard their backs so they don't get shot in the back on their way out of Iraq. That's what I heard. I heard it not exactly in those words, but I heard that theme over and over again. And it was exactly the words ``immediately pull our troops out of Iraq.'' That's what the junior Senator from Illinois said. That's the position he holds today. 
   He does understand that to pull 142,000 troops out of Iraq takes a little bit of time. He has said in his op-ed that's printed July 14 in the New York Times that he would consult with commanders on the ground and the Iraqi Government to ensure that our troops were redeployed safely and our interests protected. Well, that's the only consultation he's willing to accept is if somebody else will plan the logistics of the retreat. 
   And I would remind the body that victory in a war is defined by who's standing on the ground that was fought over when the war is over. It's like a street fight; whoever is standing there on the corner won the fight, and the one whose buddies drug him off or walked or ran away is the one that lost. We all know that. You can't run away from a fight and declare victory. It doesn't work in a street fight, it doesn't work in a battle, and it doesn't work in a war. And you can say what you want to about history, but they're going to write history according to the facts; and the facts will be who was standing in Iraq at the end of the war, not who declared defeat and pulled troops out. 
   But it is not just tantamount to a declaration of defeat to pull troops out and run away from an enemy, it is a declaration of defeat itself by any measure, by any judgment of history. I would just remind, again, Mr. Speaker, that we pulled out of Vietnam, ``peace with honor,'' I remember, ``peace with honor.'' And I remember this Congress voting to shut off all dollars to go to the South Vietnamese where they were, by then, trained to defend themselves. And we had made a sacred oath to the South Vietnamese people that we would provide for them all of the military equipment, all the munitions, and all of the air cover that they would need and use to defend themselves. And they were trained and equipped and they had their military squared away to do that. And this Congress passed legislation on an appropriations bill that said, ``These monies in this appropriations bill and any monies heretofore appropriated shall be prohibited from being spent to defend any military mission in Vietnam, on the ground of Vietnam, in the skies over Vietnam, in the seas around Vietnam''--North or South Vietnam it actually said--``or in the skies or land around Laos and Cambodia, neighboring counties.'' They covered it pretty good. 
   Any money that was in the pipeline was prohibited from being spent to allow the South Vietnamese people to defend themselves. And any money in the Department of Defense appropriations bill would be prohibited from being used to let the South Vietnamese people defend themselves with those resources. 
   We failed the South Vietnamese people. We gave them a solemn promise and a solemn oath, and we pulled out on them. And this country remembers people hanging on to the struts of helicopters as they lifted off of the U.S. Embassy in Saigon, a disgraceful image in the minds not just of patriotic Americans who saw that, sadly, but an image in the minds of people like al Qaeda who are inspired now because we didn't stick it out then. 
   And I read General Giap's book, the general who is credited with being the mastermind that set up the strategy that historians will describe as the defeat of the United States in South Vietnam. I would argue that we were not defeated there, but we were defeated here on the floor of this Congress. That's the fact of it, Mr. Speaker. 
   And on page eight of General Giap's book, he writes that he got his first inspiration that they could defeat the United States because we were willing to settle for a negotiated settlement in Korea. Because we didn't press forward for a complete 100 percent total victory over North Korea, he got the sense that we didn't have the stomach to finish a war that we were in. And so he set about with a strategy of the war of attrition, and they lost over 100,000 of their troops, killed in the Tet Offensive in 1968. And Walter Cronkite turned that into a defeat for the United States rather than a victory for our troops that so gloriously defended their positions and their compounds and the  South Vietnamese people. Over 100,000 North Vietnamese troops killed in the Tet Offensive, and Walter Cronkite interpreted that as a defeat for the United States because he didn't know why there were sappers inside the wall but not inside the U.S. Embassy in Saigon. 
   That's how history turned. History turned because it was redefined by liberal media people, and has since then been redefined by historians. And it's defined this way in the minds of Osama bin Ladin, General Giap, and also people like Muqtada al Sadr. And as I was actually in Kuwait, June 11, 2004, watching al Jazeera TV, Muqtada al Sadr came on and he said--and I was watching the closed caption going underneath the screen, he was speaking, I presume, in Arabic, the closed caption said--and I heard the voice of Muqtada al Sadr, he said, ``If we keep attacking Americans, they will leave Iraq, the same way they left Vietnam, the same way they left Lebanon, the same way they left Mogadishu.'' 
   The inspiration for our enemies doesn't come from some ideology that causes them to rise up and move in a fashion that--they're not seeking a better world or a better life, it's hatred for us. And they think they can defeat us because they believe we're soft and we lack resolve. And they go back and keep score of our history and they say, well, they pulled out of Vietnam, they pulled out of Lebanon, they pulled out of Mogadishu, surely they'll pull out of Iraq. Well, they're dealing with a different Commander in Chief today than who was in charge in any of those circumstances. This time it's George W. Bush who is sticking this out. And I'm sticking it out with him, Mr. Speaker, because he's right. The central battle in this global war on terror is now and has been for a long time Iraq, Iraq, Iraq.     
   That's changing. It's transitioning over to Afghanistan, perhaps Pakistan, but today it's Iraq, Iraq, Iraq. And we have everything but a sewed-up victory there. 
   When I look at the statistics that come out of Iraq, it tells me this: that civilian violence is off. It's down by about 80 percent from its peaks. Our military casualties are down dramatically as well. There has been 1 week where the accidental deaths in Iraq, 1 by my record so far, where the accidental deaths in Iraq were greater than the combat deaths in Iraq. That means you're getting down to one or two or three for the week. The casualties in Afghanistan have been for the last 4 to 6 weeks roughly equal to or greater than they are in Iraq. 
   Now, I would ask, Mr. Speaker, that you consider this: that we have about 140,000 to 142,000 troops in Iraq; we have about 26,000 troops in Afghanistan. So the numbers work out to be that there are about 5.38 times more troops in Iraq than there are in Afghanistan. And if the casualties are roughly equivalent in each of the two countries, the casualty rate in Afghanistan is 5.38 times greater than the casualty rate in Iraq. That is a dramatic sea change, Mr. Speaker, in the numbers of casualties within the two countries. And it isn't just because the casualties have gone up in Afghanistan, which they have, but it's because they have gone down dramatically in Iraq. 
   And the Department of Defense issued a couple of weeks ago sectarian attack statistics. Now, if you remember, we had people like the gentleman from Pennsylvania, who professes to be an expert on these issues, the one who said pull the troops out now, let's cut and run out of there and move them back to their horizon, who said that we had a civil war in Iraq and we had sectarian violence in Iraq and the place was melting down in shambles and chaos and the war could not be won. It was already lost. That from a retired Marine, that we already lost. Well, the sectarian violence, the violence that was described as uncontrollable, unmanageable, and going to get worse, the last report that came from the Department of Defense was sectarian violence, Shias killing Sunnis, Sunnis killing Shias for the sake that they are opposite sects, sectarian violence: zero. No recorded cases of attacks for sectarian reasons. Civilian violence off at least 80 percent, our casualties down to a level below where they are in Afghanistan for the last couple of weeks at least and spanning over the last 6 weeks equivalent roughly to Afghanistan. But the casualty rates in Afghanistan are 5.38 times higher than they are in Iraq. 
   Now, why is anybody unsatisfied with this? When I kept asking the question: Describe for me, define for me a victory in Iraq. How do you define that victory in Iraq? These folks over here are pretty cagy, Mr. Speaker, because they're not going to define a victory in Iraq. They know that we can achieve that. So they set up these benchmarks, 18 benchmarks for the Iraqis to reach, and if they didn't meet the benchmarks, then they were going to pull the plug on the funding and shut off the support for the troops and bring them all home. That was the strategy. And that was the strategy when General Petraeus came here to Congress--I think it was the 12th or 15th of September last year--and he gave a report on the situation in Iraq. And the junior Senator from New York said, ``It would require the willful suspension of disbelief to believe you, General Petraeus.'' ``The willful suspension of disbelief.'' 
   Well, look where we are today, Mr. Speaker? Who was telling the truth then? Was it the skeptic that came forward and denied the facts that were in front of her? Was it the general that laid out objectively the circumstances, with proper cautions, with proper caveats, but still with the proper strategy? And he sat down at Leavenworth and spent months writing the manual, the counterinsurgency manual. And I have that manual, and I have pored through it. I haven't read every word of it, but I have read a lot of the pieces in it. And that strategy was put together, as I sense it, as I read it, from the experience that General Petraeus had in Iraq and other experiences around other locations where he had been deployed, plus a lot of reading, a lot of experience, a lot of activity with other officers. 
   I remember going to Iraq for the first time in 2003, and I talked to the officers. They didn't know very much about the culture in the Middle East, and they didn't have a lot of books that they'd read about it. And I came home and started to read. I went back to Iraq, and I saw the bookshelves in their offices in places like Baghdad and Fallujah with more books on the Arabic culture, on the Muslim religion, on ways to understand the culture and the religion and the military tactics. We saw our officers start to get up to speed and learn, and they got up to speed and learned. And no one has learned that I can tell any more or any faster than General Petraeus. 
   And when I read this op-ed in the New York Times, written by the junior Senator from Illinois, who spent 147 days in the Senate and decided he should be the leader of the free world, he writes a few things in here that are quite disturbing. I will just take this kind of from the top. This is his op-ed that says what he is going to learn when he goes to Iraq. Now, this is a classic case of really getting the sequence of things wrong. 
   Now, I'm a cynical person sometimes. That's what it takes to maintain sanity in this Congress, Mr. Speaker, and I would say that I could name more than one individual in this Congress that decided that they were getting enough pressure from their constituents that they wanted to flip and change their position on the war on terror and particularly the central battlefield of that, which is Iraq. And I can name more than one individual that I believe decided they wanted to change their position, turn against the war, and so they set up a trip to go to Iraq so that they could learn what was going on over there, having already made up their mind that they were going to flip and turn against it. I could name more than one person. I choose not to do that, but I can do that. And they aren't all Democrats either, Mr. Speaker. That is a cynical thing to do. It's a cynical thing to do to come to a conclusion without the facts and then set up a trip so that you can validate the conclusion that you've already come to and come back and say, ``Well, here's what I've learned. I've learned that we've got to pull out and pull out now, and since I have been there, I really am convinced of that.'' That has happened in this Congress multiple times actually from both sides of the aisle.  
   Well, Senator Obama takes it way another level. He goes to way another level, and he decides, I'm going to go to Iraq for the first time in 900 days. For more than 900 days, he has said we're going to pull the troops immediately out of there. And he's already decided what he's going to find out when he gets there. That's not exclusive new. I said I can name some people who have done that, and I think it's cynical and it's wrong. And remember when he said ``the audacity of hope''? Now, that's kind of an oxymoron. Hope is not in an active sense. Wishful thinking is what hope is. ``The audacity of hope.'' Well, what about the audacity of declaring to the world what he's going to learn when he gets there in a couple of weeks and putting it in an op-ed in the New York Times and telling us, well, I will go there and I am going to learn what's there, and then here's what I am going to do when I come back after I learn what it is I don't know. He's going to pull the troops out immediately. And he writes in his op-ed, dated the 14th of July: ``But the same factors that led me to oppose the surge still hold true.'' 
   How does he know that, Mr. Speaker? How can he know that the same factors that led him to oppose the surge, the same factors presumably that led him to oppose our operations in Iraq, still hold true? What factors? What factors has he verified today that he thinks are going to be confirmed when he gets there? And if he already has his mind made up, why waste the jet fuel? Why put those global warming greenhouse gasses up in the atmosphere and fly over to Iraq if you already know what you think? What is going to be validated by his presence there when he already invalidates his own objective judgment by writing the op-ed that tells the world what it is that he wants us to know that he has concluded after he actually goes there but tells us before? 
   And he says of the Iraqis that the ``leaders have failed to invest tens of billions of dollars in oil revenues in rebuilding their own country.'' 
   Not so. They are investing now tens of billions of dollars. I know that they were in a situation where they had about $60 billion in revenue and they were working furiously to get it so that they could get it down and out to the people. And we are getting that revenue out to the people. I met with the mayor of Ramadi some months ago. He sounded like, let's say, the mayor of Altoona: ``I need more resources. I can't quite get the bureaucrats out of the way. I've got to build a sewer. We need a water plant. We have got to fix some streets.'' That's what it sounded like to me. And those are the streets that al Qaeda owned them less than a year before, and we went shopping in downtown Ramadi. It was the center of death for a long time there. 
   So the Iraqis are investing tens of billions of dollars. But if they weren't, is the punishment for not taking your tens of billions of dollars and investing it, is the punishment turning your back over to al Qaeda? What kind of a foreign policy is that? 
   And then we go on and he says: ``They have not reached the political accommodation that was the stated purpose of the surge.'' Well, what is that political accommodation? He does not say. And he doesn't say because he can move that ball of string in front of the kitten again. He can play Lucy with Charlie Brown and the football in the fall, set the ball, and when Charlie comes along, the Iraqis, to make their political accommodations and they get ready like Charlie Brown to kick the football, then Lucy, the junior Senator from Illinois, can say, ``Whoops. Nope, that wasn't the target. That was a different political accommodation. I'll tell you what it is if you hit it.'' Well, you're not going to hit it with this man. He already has his mind made up. No amount of accomplishments, no amount of statistics, no amount of real data on the ground, no amount of sacrifice is going to change his mind because politically he has concluded that it strengthens his hand to, let me say, invalidate the sacrifice of thousands and thousands of Americans who have either given their lives; their limbs; parts of their bodies; their health, mental and physical; their treasure; and years out of their lives. To take that fight from us, to take that fight from our children and grandchildren would all be invalidated because it would strengthen his hand politically. That's the calculus. 
   So it says here, and again I am reading from this New York Times op-ed dated July 14 by the junior Senator from Illinois, 147 days in the Senate and decided he wanted to be President--it says here in his op-ed: ``The good news is that Iraq's leaders want to take responsibility for their country by negotiating a timetable for the removal of American troops.'' 
   Well, that's an opinion on an opinion. And my opinion on that opinion is, Mr. Speaker, that the Iraqis are starting to feel their oats a little bit. Yes, we have made a lot of progress, and a very good sign of the progress is that at least politically Prime Minister Maliki needs to say, ``I want to negotiate a timetable.'' That tells me that the Iraqis are building in their confidence, and that's good news. 
   Two other things that have happened in the last 1 1/2 years that didn't exist before is the Iraqi people understand we are not there for their oil and they understand we are not there to occupy, and that has helped dramatically in helping the Iraqis to make progress moving forward. But ``the good news is that Iraq's leaders want to take responsibility for their country by negotiating a timetable for the removal of American troops,'' he could have chosen his words a little better. That sets a little wrong with me, that word ``removal.'' But what that says is we are succeeding in Iraq. And a year ago, 2 years ago, 3 years ago, 4 years ago, the answer was did all the Iraqis want us to leave? Yes. All of the Iraqis wanted us to leave, just not anytime soon. They wanted to make sure that their country was stable. We have been training troops there for a long time, Mr. Speaker, and I don't know that the junior Senator knows that. 
   But in any case, the timetable for American troops coming home needs to be set upon the security levels in Iraq, not some arbitrary date. But the dates that are being proposed by the Iraqi leadership are well beyond the date that is in this op-ed that's written by the junior Senator from Illinois. So they are not on the same page. Maybe he doesn't know that because he hasn't gone there for 900 days. And when he sits down and talks to them, and I hope he does, is he going to come back and correct this? I don't think so because he already has his mind up. He has given us a report from Iraq, sent to us a couple weeks before he goes to Iraq. That's kind of being a little bit trigger happy with your op-ed, I would say.     
   Now here is another piece that I underlined. Obama says, ``Only by redeploying our troops can we press the Iraqis to reach comprehensive political accommodation and achieve a successful transition to Iraqis' taking responsibility for the security and stability of their country. Instead of seizing the moment and encouraging Iraqis to step up, the Bush administration and Senator McCain are refusing to embrace this transition.'' 
   Really? If he had gone to Iraq like I have and dozens and dozens of Members of Congress have and thousands upon thousands of Americans in uniform have, he might have been exposed to some of the things I have seen. For example, October 2003, Mosul, Iraq, General Petraeus commanding the 101st Airborne showed us, and this would be about 11:30 at night, he brought Iraqi troops into formation that had been training. And those Iraqi troops stood at attention. And we reviewed the Iraqi trainee troops October 2003. May, 2003, they had elections in Mosul. Liberation took place about the 22nd and 23rd in that area of March 2003. Just a little over a month later, there were elections in Mosul, Iraq, where they elected a governor, a vice governor and other officers there. That was all under the direction of General Petraeus. 
   And so if you go there, Mr. Speaker, and you witness those things, you understand the reality on the ground is significantly different than the reality imagined by the gentleman who penned this op-ed. And I would continue, by the way, I repeat the statement where he says, the Bush administration and Senator McCain are refusing to embrace this transition to Iraqi security forces providing the security in Iraq. They are the people that invented it, Mr. Speaker. It has been the President and his appointed officers who have  made sure that we had the resources to train Iraqi troops and to get Iraqi troops stood up so our troops could stand down. Do you remember that phrase? When the Iraqi troops stand up, we can stand down. That statement came out over and over again. 
   And I have met with Iraqi troops across that country over and over again. And sometimes they train pretty good. And sometimes they didn't perform so well. But today, we know they fight well for Prime Minister Maliki. And because of that, the day is coming where we can transition. And we've drawn the surge volume of the troops down now, and we're back to the more stable number of 100,000 to 142,000 troops. We think those numbers will be diminished some more throughout the summer. 
   But let it be a strategic decision, not a political decision. Politicians don't do a good job of fighting wars. I've described what we did on the floor of this Congress to pull the rug out from underneath the South Vietnamese. I just didn't tell you about the 2 or 3 million who died in the aftermath. That blood is on the hands of the people who didn't keep their promise to the South Vietnamese. And I don't want the blood on our hands for not following through on our mission that we committed ourselves to. Once you engage, you're with the troops 100 percent. You're with the mission 100 percent. You cannot separate the troops from their mission. And it doesn't work to say, I'm for the troops but I oppose their mission. It doesn't work to say, I celebrate our brave troops, but I brought a resolution to the floor, an amendment to try to cut the funding for them. I tried to cut their food, their fuel, their bullet-proof vests, M-4s and their Humvees. That is not support. And they need moral support as well as financial support, Mr. Speaker. 
   And under the next paragraph in his op-ed in the New York Times it says, ``It is a strategy for staying that runs contrary to the will of the Iraqi people.'' Really? How would he know what the will of the Iraqi people is? 
   It helps to go there and find out. You can get somebody in this country to tell you anything you want to hear. And you can repeat it over and over again. When you go there and you see the faces of the Iraqi people and you move among their troops and among their civilians, you get an entirely different idea. You get an idea of gratitude. I have gotten written letters from them where they have profoundly thanked us for the sacrifice of our American soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines. We've given them a lot. We've given them our treasure. And we've given them our sons and daughters. And they're willing to step up to this freedom. We cannot squander it. 
   This is another comment made by Obama in this op-ed to the New York Times. It says, ``It is a strategy for staying that runs contrary to the will of the Iraqi people.'' And moving forward it says, ``That is why, on my first day in office, on my first day in office, I would give the military a new mission: Ending this war.'' That is the definitive statement made by the junior Senator from Illinois: ``On my first day in office, I would give the military a new mission: Ending this war.'' 
   Regardless of the circumstances on the ground, Mr. Speaker, regardless of how badly we might need to have troops there to stabilize the Iraqi defense forces, regardless of the threat, regardless of the threat across the Straits of Hormuz, Iran and their nuclear efforts and Ahmadinejad's lunatic approach to the world, denying the holocaust, declaring that he wants to annihilate Israel and annihilate the United States, and have him sitting there on one side of the Straits of Hormuz where 42.6 percent of the world's oil supply comes through and take our troops and skedaddle out of Iraq, and hand southern Iraq over to the influence of the Iranians perhaps? Where 70 to 80 percent of the Iraqi oil is? And again, right on the other side of the Straits of Hormuz, on both sides of the Straits is where most of the oil is in Iran, on the east side of the Straits of Hormuz and Iraq on the west side of the Straits of Hormuz, in there is a mother lode of oil. Those oil fields are developed, that oil is coming out of there, and it's coming down the Straits now. And if Iran follows through on their threat to close the Straits of Hormuz, they have a stranglehold on the oil supply for the world. Not only do they have that, but they have a stranglehold on the valve that turns the economy off or on if they choose to do so. And they have threatened to close the Straits. And we have in the past put our Navy in there to keep the Straits open. 
   That, Mr. Speaker, is the time for the Speaker, Nancy Pelosi from San Francisco, to declare that we should open up our Strategic Petroleum Reserves, dump that oil on the market where we have, I understand, about 2 months of supply in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and use that to drive the price down? What do we do when those reserves are empty and the oil production in the world hasn't gone up, and we haven't developed our energy supplies in the United States? What do we do then? What do we do if Ahmadinejad then closes the Straits of Hormuz after our Strategic Petroleum Reserve is empty and we have taken a dime or so off the gas price in the United States, taken some pressure off the world demand for oil because we wouldn't be quite so much in the market which would give the Chinese a better deal on oil, that would be the strategy that we're working with? 
   Our national security is at risk. The destiny of this Nation is at risk. And if we pull out of Iraq, if we elect an Obama for President, and he follows through on this thing that he is about to learn in a couple of weeks when he goes to Iraq and he has already concluded and he writes in the op-ed, I'm going to editorialize this part, and I will be straight about that, he writes in the op-ed, I'm going to Iraq, and I'm going to learn all this, and I'm going to come back, and these are the decisions I have already made, and I'm going to remake them when I come back. ``That is why on my first day in office, I would give the military a new mission: Ending this war.'' That means get out of Iraq. Pull out immediately. He said it over and over again, leave that blood and treasure there and leave the disgrace of pulling out there, and let the world declare it to be a defeat for the United States. Let al Qaeda use it as a recruiting tool, a recruiting tool for them to pick up terrorists around the world. That is what would happen, Mr. Speaker, if we pull out. 
   And I do think we're close to where the Iraqis can stand on their own and it is far more stable. But to just simply betray the judgment of General Petraeus before setting foot on the ground that has been liberated by the surge and the people who have given their lives, their blood and their treasure is a disgrace to do. And so I urge this body to urge some of their Presidential candidate to shift his position. 
   In the meantime, I intend to stand with a man who is an authentic American hero, a man who has served America for every day of his adult life, a man who sat in the Hanoi Hilton for at least 5 1/2 years, that served there with our own great Sam Johnson in this Congress, served with the most decorated living American hero who happens to be from Sioux City, Iowa, and a man whom I call a friend, Colonel Bud Day, a Medal of Honor and 69 other medals on down. Those men stand up with John McCain for his service. And they know that that he has character. It can't be challenged. The background of John McCain is a solid background all the way through. And the background that we have, that we follow for the junior Senator for Illinois, we're having trouble finding the place that would give us encouragement that he would have the tools necessary to lead the United States. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want somebody that stands up for our freedom. I want somebody who has got an attitude of an east Texan serving us in the United States, in the White House. I want somebody with an attitude like President Bush has. Sometimes you have to be a lit bit ornery, a little cussed, a little belligerent and a little bit of an enigma. And that will keep our enemies off of our back and keep them guessing a little bit. But they need to know. Our enemies need to know we're committed to victory. And we're going to stick with victory. And we're not going to let up, that Iraq cannot be our Alamo. And it will not if we send a Commander in Chief that will stand for victory. I would conclude, Mr. Speaker, that America has never elected a President who was for retreat at a time of war. We will not do it again in 2008.  
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY SOLUTIONS -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentlelady from Minnesota. Thanks for organizing this Special Order and thanks for taking a leadership role on this energy issue and a number of other issues and establishing yourself here in the United States Congress. 
   The issue of ANWR is something that I've talked about some in the past. And I will try to confine my discussion to ANWR, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
   And I will start this way: A couple or 3 years ago I was at the Iowa State Fair where they asked us, as elected representatives, to give a 20-minute speech while the press listens to the 20-minute speech, then they write some stories about what we said and we get into the news. So Members of Congress line up there and candidates line up. And I drug a bale of straw down to stand on. 
   And so I was standing there on a bale of straw at the Iowa State Fair, and I began to tell people about ANWR, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. And one of the things that I said was, there are no trees in ANWR. And if you've seen a commercial, perhaps a commercial published by the Sierra Club, that shows or imagines a pristine alpine forest, if you see a picture of a pristine alpine forest and people are telling you we can't drill in ANWR, I can guarantee you it's not a picture of ANWR. It's not a picture of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
   The first thing we need to remember is that ``arctic'' means up in that area north of the Arctic Circle. The definition of the Arctic Circle is--go back to your eighth grade general science, Mr. Speaker, and ladies and gentlemen, where we learned in about eighth grade that the Arctic Circle is that circle around the globe north of which trees can't grow. And so, by definition, if it's the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, there are no trees up there. 
   And so, in any case, there was a trucker standing in the crowd that began to scream at me, ``liar, liar''--which is no way to treat a public servant. And I was ready to come down off of that bale of straw and deal with him like the boys who grew up in the corn fields, but in the end I convinced some other folks to go down there and do what I would do if I didn't have to give the speech. 
   And the paper wrote up a story about how Steve King wasn't entirely accurate because they talked to a botanist who alleged that there was a tiny little sliver of plant that grows within the tundra that doesn't get more than 10 to 12 inches tall that technically could be considered a tree, not one you could cut a log out of, not one you could climb, not one that a squirrel would recognize as a tree, but according to a botanist, a tree just the same. So I guess you could say that maybe there are some trees in ANWR, but they aren't as tall as the tundra grass. And that's all that you'll see out there for millions and millions of acres. 
   Part of it's the Brooks Range, a lot of it is mountainous, mountainous bare stone with snow that's on it 12 months out of the year 24 hours a day. But we're talking about drilling in the oil deposits in the Arctic Coastal Plain. The Arctic Coastal Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge people imagine as just teeming with caribou and arctic wolves or fox or whatever they have up there, all of this teeming with wildlife because they've given it a name called the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
   Well, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr. Speaker, there are 19.6 million acres in ANWR. Most of it is mountainous--and we don't want to go in there, you couldn't get a drill rig in there anyway. We want to drill the Coastal Plain. The Coastal Plain is just a flat coastal plain, pretty close down near sea level. It undulates a little bit, and it has permafrost all of 10 months out of the year. And then when it thaws and when the sun shines and the midnight sun shines on it, it will penetrate down through the permafrost a foot to 18 inches, something like that. 
   And so we hear people like Senator Tom Harkin say, I went to ANWR and I camped up in ANWR and I floated a river in ANWR--now I didn't see any rivers there, but I take him at his word--he floated a river in ANWR, and he could dip his cup into the water and take a drink. And he thinks that's pretty nice and we ought to keep it that way. 
   Well, it still is that way. You can float the rivers on the North Slope of Alaska and dip your cup in the water and drink them and they're just as clean and pristine as they ever were. I would be a little worried about the polar bears walking through it, a little worried about what the salmon do in it, but nonetheless, if you choose to drink out of that river it's going to be as safe for you today as it was 50 years ago or 100 years ago. But that's no reason to deprive the United States of America of energy. 
   And so, the Coastal Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, for example, the North Slope of Alaska, which we've already developed, has a caribou herd there--actually, it has several of them scattered around. In fact, in 1970, when we began to open up the North Slope of Alaska and they said, you'll destroy this environment, and so we can't go up there and drill. And the environmentalists stuck some court injunctions on it and they were successful for 2 years in keeping us out of there. 
   But when they started that, there were 7,000 caribou on the North Slope of Alaska running around out there, eating the Arctic tundra grass that was there. And then we went ahead and started building the pipeline in 1972 and completed it in 1975--and perhaps I'll go back to that. And then we watched that caribou herd that went from 7,000 head of caribou in 1970 to--about 3 years ago when I did this trip and we had the count--28,000 caribou on the North Slope of Alaska. Well, that would convince me that the environment, if there was any damage up there, surely it didn't damage the reproductive capabilities of the caribou. And I made that statement to a reporter one day, and he said, well, of course there's a lot of caribou on the North Slope of Alaska, that's because the pipeliners shot all the wolves. Now, you've got to be a little bit off on the other side to come to an immediate conclusion like that. 
   And I can tell the gentlelady from Minnesota and the Speaker, I can tell you that that aim that he took was way off the mark on pipeliners shooting all the wolves that would have eaten the caribou and held the herd down to 7,000 head. That didn't happen. It didn't happen by the pipeliners because I was signed up to go up on that pipeline. And I can tell you what it paid, it was $9.75 an hour in 1972. And we worked seven 14-hour days of the week, and we did that for six weeks. We got 2 weeks off. I didn't get to go because of the court injunction--I was actually signed up in 1970--the court injunction shut down my travels up there. So that was the situation. 
   And that was a lot of money in 1972. They had to pay that kind of money, $9.75 an hour, then because here were the rules: We're going to hire men to go up there and build these roads and these pipelines and drill these wells and open up this oil field. And the rules are this; first rule is, no women. You have to pay a man a lot of money to go someplace where there are no women. Second thing, no booze. And I'll add a little more to the per-hour scale of that. Third thing, no gambling. Well, it's pretty tough when you've got nothing to do up there, with no booze and no women, to do anything but gamble. The fourth thing was, no guns. So if there's no women, no gambling, no booze and no guns, there were no pipeliners shooting any wolves on the North Slope of Alaska. Therefore, one could conclude, short of another one of those crazy explanations, that the caribou thrived with the new environment that they had, which allowed them to get up out of that ice cold water, where they were dropping their calves during calving time, and up on the dry near the Alaska Pipeline, where it's warm, too. 
   So what we have is this: We've developed the North Slope of Alaska. We did  that from 1972 until 1975. We built a 600-mile road from Fairbanks North to get up there to Prudhoe Bay and Deadhorse access--milepost zero of the Alaska Pipeline--to build an 800-mile pipeline from Deadhorse on the Arctic Ocean down to the Port of Valdez, drilled a bunch of wells up there, sunk the casings down, cemented the casings and put pumps down in those casings. You can fly over that area today, the North Slope of Alaska, the identical environment and topography of ANWR, and I can take Dennis Kucinich up there, my friend, and I would have to point to him and say, here's a well, here's a well. He wouldn't recognize them from the air, even flying along at about 4,000 feet or less, because, first of all, there are no derricks up there, not one. There are only six drill rigs working in Alaska now because of the environmental lawsuits that 
   have shut them down. And so you'll have a hard time finding a drill rig, there won't be derricks in the North Slope. 
   And when you think of the pump jacks, the traditional oil well pumps that have the counterweight that chug around, they aren't up there either. So unless you're an expert, you're not going to even see where the wells are. 
   But if you look real close and you know what you're looking for, you will see these work over pads that I judge to be about 50 feet wide and maybe 100 or 125 feet long, big enough to bring a rig up on if you need to pull the pump out. And it's a pad of white rock, maybe three feet thick or so, and they use that in the wintertime, come in on an ice road if they need to work on a well, and go in and pop the cap off and go down and start pulling the pump pipe out, they go down and pull out a submersible pump from down there, work the pump over, put in a new one, drop it in, get the well going again. But there is not a pump sitting above the surface of the North Slope of Alaska that I could find. There may be some out there that I couldn't see. 
   So what we've done is, in a very environmentally friendly fashion, gone into identical environment and topography on the North Slope of Alaska, developed an oil field with 1970s technology, built a pipeline 800 miles long, built a road 600 miles long to get up there, built a service road alongside that pipeline part of the time--and most of that's ice roads today--got all of that done from '72 to '75, and pumped oil. And yet I stand on the floor of this Congress and I hear people on the other side of the aisle, you and you stand up and say, well, it's going to take 10 years to get oil out of ANWR. And the other night it was 20 years to get oil out of ANWR. 
   And so I look at that and I think, wait a minute, we had the Manhattan Project. We started after the beginning of World War II to build an atom bomb, a series of them, figure out how to deliver them and how to penetrate the air defenses of Japan. We built the atom bombs, we flew them over Japan and we dropped them on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945. Three plus years to do the Manhattan Project. 
   And then, what else was amazing? Let's see. It was in 1963, when John F. Kennedy said, hey, let's go to the Moon. That little nudge that he gave in that important speech inspired America and NASA, and 6 years later we're on the Moon with Neal Armstrong. One giant step and we're on the Moon, 6 years.     
   And they are telling us that we can't build 74 miles of pipeline from Prudhoe Bay, Deadhorse access, east over into ANWR and hook onto some wells that we would sink down and not get oil coming out for a decade or two until another generation has come and gone? That's a defeatist attitude. That's not the America I know. 
   And there is no argument that the environment was damaged on the North Slope or they would have brought up posters here and put this on the floor over and over again. 
   So we need to drill ANWR. We need to drill the Outer Continental Shelf. We need to drill the nonnational park public lands. And we need to drill everywhere all the time. It's not an environmental issue. The issue is people that want to ride bicycles instead of drive cars, that's the people on that side of the aisle that are shutting down our access to energy. 
   I thank the gentlewoman from Minnesota. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ENERGY SOLUTIONS -- (House of Representatives - July 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Thank you. I had forgotten that you're going, and I am so glad that you're going up there to see it for yourself. 
   Now, when you get in that 19-passenger twin-engine Grumman and you fly out of Deadhorse and you fly over to Kaktovik, ask that pilot to get down real low and have everybody on that plane looking for wildlife. We did that. We zigzagged around across the Coastal Plain looking for the wildlife. 
   I forgot to tell you there is no resident caribou herd in ANWR. They live in Canada. They come over to have their calves mid-May until mid-June. When the calves can walk, they go back. It's a kind of migrant maternity ward is what it is. They go back to Canada and live over there, and they're doing fine. So this is after mid-June. So fly around out there and look around for wildlife. What we found when we looked were four musk oxen standing there with their heads down. They wouldn't have known if they were standing next to an oil well or not either. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (IMMIGRATION -- (House of Representatives - November 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, again I thank you for recognizing me to address you here on the floor of the United States House of Representatives; that never is an event for me that goes without profound appreciation for the privilege to stand here in this place that so many have stood in and engaged in this great deliberative body that we have. 
   I appreciate this opportunity that we have with technology that's available today to address you at the close of business, in fact, at the close of the week, and to be confident that the messages that flow forth from the floor of this Chamber echo not just in your ears, Mr. Speaker, but across this country. 
   And I would submit that, in this Nation that we have today, we have a greater opportunity to have a more representative form of our constitutional Republic than we had, perhaps, when the Founders established this country and drafted our declaration and used that foundation to draft our Constitution. At that time, the communications were limited to word of mouth and letters and newspapers that couldn't be produced at anywhere near the rate that we can produce communications today. 
   Today, we are real-time communications globally. And when we speak in this Chamber or do a press conference and talk to a radio or television station, or when any of the leaders do across the country, that echoes sometimes around the world. If the President holds a press conference, it echoes around the world. 
   And here we have that opportunity to speak to and address the issues of our day in a fashion that we can be confident that the American people, those that are interested in the subject matter that we raise, are having this conversation amongst themselves as well. And it takes place with cell phones and e-mail and Web pages and telephone calls and across the coffee table and at work and at school and at play and at ball games and at church, the aspects of our lives where we interchange with our ideas. 
   And we need to remember, as Members of Congress, that we come here to stand for and stand up for and represent the principles that have made this a great Nation, and that our debate needs to be a debate always with the idea in mind of what's the best policy for the United States of America, not necessarily what's the best politics for any individual Member of this Congress. And we have great appreciation and respect for this national conversation that takes place. 
   I would point out, Mr. Speaker, that the best example that I can think of in my time here in this Congress has been the national conversation that we've had on immigration. And of course we've had our debates that have gone on here for some years, and they have gotten very intense here on the floor of the House of Representatives, but the pivotal moment actually came over in the Senate several times this year, but late May is the one that stands out in my mind. 
   And as the discussion took place, the Wall Street Journal would write one thing and the New York Times would sometimes mirror that, and the Washington Times would have a different opinion and the National Review would have a different opinion. And as these opinions were merging, Americans were reading those articles. They were listening to the news stories on CNN, Fox News and the other major networks. And as these subjects came up and this discussion of what we're going to do, as Congressman Poe spoke about the need to secure our border and enforce our immigration laws, that debate was taking place on our airwaves, on talk radio, in the print media, on television. It was taking place here on the floor of the House of Representatives, and it was taking place in those workplaces and all the way across the spectrum of American life. 
   And what we were having was a national conversation, a national conversation that often turned into an intense debate and sometimes a shouting match from one American to another. But as that went on, we tested our ideas. And as we raised up issues that we said were facts, and those facts were raised up with an opportunity for those who disagreed to challenge those facts, maybe present their own, Americans came to a consensus conclusion. And when it came to the consensus conclusion, that was when the crucible of the comprehensive immigration bill was before the United States Senate.     
   As it came before the United States Senate, the American people, having had a national conversation throughout all that media that I talked about, person-to-person, face-to-face decided we do not want an amnesty plan. We don't want a comprehensive immigration plan. I call it often a comprehensive amnesty plan. We want to make sure that we defend the rule of law, and whatever we do with legal immigration needs to be predicated upon the requirement that we establish the rule of law and that those who might be beneficiaries of a change in immigration law would be those people who have not violated our laws. 
   That was the principle that caused the American people to weigh in, that was the principle that shut down the switchboards in the United States Senate, that is the principle that has gotten their attention over there a couple of times since then, and it is this national conversation where we are able  to reach out and listen to and understand and benefit from the wisdom of the American people. 
   Our judgment is endorsed by the virtue that we have been elected to represent our constituents. But we need to use our most sound judgment. We also need to listen to our constituents and listen to this national conversation and make a decision on what is good for this country, the State that we are from and the district that we represent, and most likely we are better off if we go through it in that order. 
   Well, that issue, Mr. Speaker, has several times come to a conclusion in the Senate and they haven't had the votes to move that comprehensive immigration reform plan that I called comprehensive amnesty. I bring that up to illustrate how a national conversation brings us to a consensus. Sometimes we haven't reached a consensus here on this floor, and that is when you will see the divisive votes, the contested votes, and sometimes we do reach a consensus, and that is when the board is all green up here behind us, or almost all green when there are a few dissenters. That is generally the policy that is the best policy to follow. Meanwhile, some of us will stand on principle; some of us will be unwilling to move because we have taken our stand. 
   Well, I am watching also a dynamic here in America, Mr. Speaker, and this dynamic is such that the division of the American people looks to me like occasionally it's brought out because of legislation that is introduced and brought to the floor of this House. Now, when a baby is born anywhere in the world, they have kind of an equal chance of coming up on one side or the other of this philosophy, when they ask the question, Is your glass half full or is your glass half empty? In some places, teenagers start to answer that question for themselves. If they believe their glass is half empty, chances are they are going to look over at someone else whose glass has more in it and point to them and say, But if they hadn't gone ahead to fill their glass, mine would have filled automatically. 
   That is the class-envy side, that is the ``poor me'' side, that is the side that thinks that this economy and the privileges and the rights of being an American citizen are a zero sum game and that somehow there are only so many benefits to spread around so you always have to take from those that ``have'' and give it to the ``have-nots.'' It's kind of the Robin Hood theory of how they approach the tax policy or the benefits policy. 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, I would submit that here on the floor of the House today we had one of those issues. This issue was the tax relief, the alternative minimum tax patch, this patch that was brought by Chairman Rangel. The oddest thing, the oddest thing that I have seen is that, first of all, the alternative minimum tax is the tax that was brought in decades ago to make sure that those who were the wealthiest among us paid a little more than their fair share; and because it was an index for inflation, more and more people earned a little more and picked up through the inflation factor a higher income and found that they had crept into the alternative minimum tax bracket. Common, ordinary, middle-income, slightly upper-middle-income Americans ending up paying the alternative minimum tax. 
   The irony is that we have an SCHIP bill out here someplace waiting to come back and land again here on the floor of the House, the State Children's Health Insurance Program. That is the program that taxes American taxpayers to subsidize health insurance benefits for mostly children, but not exclusively children, in America, and the policy that was passed off the floor of the House of Representatives advanced by Speaker Pelosi and most, if not all, Democrats was that 400 percent of poverty that we would subsidize out of the taxpayers' dollars, up to 400 percent of poverty the health insurance premiums for children in this country, most of whom had health insurance and all of whom had access to health care. 
   Well, the irony of that 400 percent of poverty piece was that there were 70,000 families in America that would be receiving the SCHIP benefit because they didn't have enough money presumably to pay the health insurance premiums for their children, but they had 70,000 families that were so wealthy that they would pay the alternative minimum tax. 
   I find it utterly ironic that here on this floor, within the same month, within the short compressed period of time, that might be days, certainly won't be longer than weeks, which is that to subsidize health insurance premiums for families making 400 percent of poverty, which, in my district would be, even at 300 percent of poverty, at $77,625, or very close to that. At least it's over $77,000. At 400 percent of poverty, it's over $103,000. We would subsidize health insurance premiums for those kids whose parents have plenty of money to pay the premium in order to crowd them off the private insurance roles and put them onto a government-funded taxpayer roll; and at the same time we would do that, 70,000 families would be the families that would also have to pay the alternative minimum tax. 
   If you want to look at the spectrum across which you have to go to close the gap on socialism, one can argue we are only helping the poor amongst us. So it's not socialism until everybody fits into the same category and we provide socialized medicine, socialized health care. Look at some of this things that have happened in Great Britain, nationalized utilities, for example. Those kind of things that would make Karl Marx happy, if you start from the poor and work your way up to the rich. I would argue that those that were paying the alternative minimum tax would, by definition, not be the poor among us. That is the reason for the alternative minimum tax, to tax the more wealthy among us. 
   But if they didn't have enough money to pay for the health insurance premiums for their children, is it because the alternative minimum tax took too big a bite out of their paycheck? Presumably so. 
   So we have to subsidize the health insurance premiums of those families that are paying the alternative minimum tax, the tax on the rich, because by the time we get done taxing them, they don't have enough money to buy the health insurance for their kids. That closes the gap on socialism, Mr. Speaker. I don't know that there is an argument left that this Congress hasn't advanced this to the point where there's a majority of votes in this Congress that would take us all the way, all the way to please the Marxist philosophy of ``from 
   each according to his ability, to each according to his need.'' 
   Let me quote one who was not known as a conservative, but a President from Georgia, Jimmy Carter, who said, ``I believe that people that work should live better than those that don't.'' It's interesting that a person of my persuasion would remember Jimmy Carter saying something like that. I remember it because he was in Iowa campaigning for the Presidency a generation ago, and I believed him. I don't know what he has done to demonstrate his belief in that statement. But, Mr. Speaker, I want to state in the Record I believe that those that work should live better than those that don't. If we take from those that work and give to those who don't, we need to take care of those people that can't help themselves, we need to take care of them to a minimum standard; but we don't need to raise them up to a level to those that work the hardest or most productive, not because it isn't a nice, fine and shining ideal that makes us feel good and makes me feel all warm and fuzzy inside, but because we destroy the motivation of the most productive people among us. 
   The key to America's success has been that you could pull yourself up by your bootstraps; that you could grow up in a poor family and have access to a good education, whether it's public or private, a good education, and in this country, if you want to go to college and have the ability, you can go to college and you can ply your trade and you can go from the soup line, all the way up to be a CEO on a Fortune 500 company. If you don't like that path, you can start your own business, be an entrepreneur and create your own Fortune 500 company. You can go from sweeping the floor to owning the floor. That is America. 
   But if we take away the incentive, if we reward the people who don't produce equivalent to those who do produce extraordinarily, then we have killed the goose that lays the golden  egg, we have destroyed the motivation, and the people that would be superachievers will either stop being superachievers and sit back and go golfing or fishing the rest of their lives, or they will go to a country that does reward their kind of excellence and their kind of performance. 
   So I believe, Mr. Speaker, that we need to always preserve a climate that is good for entrepreneurs, always preserve a climate that is low in taxation, low in regulation, that has faith in the good of humanity and recognizes that Americans are the most giving people in the world, that we donate a greater share of our income and we contribute a greater share in however you want to measure it, by percentage or by dollars, to other countries in foreign aid. We send more missionaries throughout the world and we follow them with our dollars and support them with our dollars because we care about humanity and we want to export our values to those corners of the world so they can have the opportunity to excel and live the kind of life that we have had the privilege to live here. 
   But to destroy this, to pass a piece of legislation in the alternative minimum tax, it does another thing that is unique, Mr. Speaker. What it does is it pays for a tax cut with a tax increase. That is something new and unique to the debate and the dialog here on the floor. I have the data here that shows that there are $82.5 billion in permanent tax increases that are incorporated into this alternative minimum tax, AMT, patch, and temporary relief turns into $82.5 billion in new tax increases, Mr. Speaker. It has a marriage penalty that is included in it as well. 
   This bill that passed off of this floor today is inconsistent with American values and undermines American values. It rewards people with the wrong incentives and it misses the opportunity for the right incentive. In fact, we should repeal the alternative minimum tax. We should do so on the spot, without regard to recovering any of that revenue because it's not revenue that was calculated to be part of our revenue stream today. It's an additional tax, a tax recalculated on a tax. 
   I have gone through that. I have gone through that process of getting that surprise years ago when I was actually a struggling business, trying to make a go of it; and because my income jumped from a meager existence in a couple of years to a pretty reasonable existence the following year, I got hit with the alternative minimum tax and that is when it was brought to my attention, and it was clear out of the intention of this Congress to do that on the alternative minimum tax. 
   We need to get rid of the AMT, we don't need to just patch it, and we surely don't need to put a permanent tax increase of $82.5 billion on the books and then say somehow that we are solving the problem. When you pay for a temporary tax cut with a permanent tax increase, that is not a tax cut, that is a stealth tax increase. I said it out loud. It's no longer stealth. 
   That is something that divides Americans. Why are we pitting Americans against Americans here in this Congress, Mr. Speaker? Shouldn't we be about unifying Americans, shouldn't we be about pulling ourselves together, finding ways that we can reach an agreement and setting up a policy and tax in particular that rewards people that work, gives them an opportunity? The philosophy that flows from the Speaker's gavel on down on the other side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, is a philosophy of class envy, meanwhile, all the while, while the deep-pocket people that fund it are elitists. 
   So as I watch this unfold, it's an effort I think that divides us and doesn't unite us. I want a tax policy that pulls us together. You can listen to some of the philosophers in the early years of America's existence, and Alexander Tyler comes to mind. Some of the quotes that have been attributed to de Toqueville come to mind. But the idea that when Americans figure out that they can vote themselves benefits from the public Treasury, on that day our constitutional Republic ceases to exist. 
   You see reports that will show, this is some years ago, I haven't had it refreshed in the last few years, only 44 percent of Americans pay taxes and the rest may or may not file a tax return but aren't actually paying taxes. The number that I have in my memory is 44 percent of Americans don't pay taxes. That is some years ago. As that number grows, and it's surely larger today than it was then when I first read that quote, as that number grows and gets to that point, the tipping point across the other side of that great divide of 50 percent is when a majority of Americans realize I am not paying these taxes; why do I care about my taxes, I am on the benefit side.     
   Now, if 51 percent of Americans are on the benefit side and they're collecting more in taxes than they're paying, then it's to their interest to lobby and pressure and leverage their Member of Congress to increase the benefits out of the pockets of somebody else. That's the transfer payment. 
   And so we get down to this point where this constitutional republic gets closer to being a pure democracy. And a pure democracy is best described as, you will remember the Greek city-states where all eligible males of age could go and vote and that was their definition, and each vote counted the same, so that was as close as we've seen in history to a pure democracy. 
   But a democracy by definition, Mr. Speaker, and I'll give this definition, is the equivalent of two wolves and a sheep taking a vote on what's for dinner. You know what's going to happen. The sheep is going to be for dinner. So just having the majority doesn't make it right. That's why we have the Bill of Rights. That's why we have protections for people that are guaranteed in the Constitution, because if it were a pure democracy, it would have been easy to set up a pure democracy. The Founders saw that. They studied the Greek city-states. I recall going to the National Archives and walking through a display where they had the pottery from the Greek era, from, say, 2,500, 3,000 years ago, and how they actually would banish a demagogue from the Greek city-state because he was so effective in selling the things that he believed in that the people got all swept up in the demagoguery--that's where the term comes from--and they would vote something that was perhaps irrational but they believed that they were in the momentum and they would cast the votes and the city-state would go the wrong direction. When they recognized what the demagogue had done to sell them the bad package, then they had the black ball system, whereby each one who could vote in the city-state could walk by with a white marble and a black marble, one piece of pottery, one vessel, was to vote in and the other one was to discard. And if a demagogue, one that was labeled to be a demagogue received three of those black balls, then he was banished from the Greek city-state for 7 years. They did that to protect themselves from those skilled orators that could move the populace. When they saw that, that's the thumbnail sketch of the studies of the Greek city-states in the pure democracy, our Founders concluded they wanted a constitutional republic, not a democracy. That's why we have this constitutional representative republic today. 
   But in order to get the republic established in the Constitution, they had to write in the protection of the rights, the Bill of Rights. Those rights are there to be constitutionally protected, because the Founders knew that two wolves and a sheep taking a vote on what's for dinner wasn't going to yield a nation that could subsist very long. Well, if our constitutional republic, our representative form of government, has now devolved down to the point where it is more a democracy and it is less a constitutional republic and if Members of this Congress don't see their job as a duty to stand up for those principles and those rights and have a long-term vision on what's good for America, but if they simply vote their constituents and come what may with any kind of long-term plan or based upon any principles, or if they can come here to the floor and vote for something that they know to be unconstitutional because that's what their constituents want, Mr. Speaker, I will submit this republic will not very long last. 
   As I see what's happening with the alternative minimum tax and we are taking from those that produce to spread those dollars across others who are, I think, pretty well taken care of at the time, we've taken away the incentive to produce and we've reduced this down into a pile of spoils in the  middle, the general fund, that's being squabbled over by an ever divergent group of minority classes that are lining themselves up to demand more from the taxpayers of America. 
   It has only been just a little over 40 years since John F. Kennedy said, ask not what your country can do for you but ask what you can do for your country and here we are squabbling over how we're going to run a tax increase for $82.5 billion, permanent, in order to say we did something about the alternative minimum tax right within this same period of time that we're dealing with an SCHIP program and having passed off of this a 400 percent of poverty benefit, negotiated it down thankfully out of the Senate to 300 percent of poverty, that's still way too much, that is irresponsible and again pits Americans against Americans and the depth of the debate that the other side can go on SCHIP is, it's for the kids. 
   Well, that's nice that it is for the kids. We're all for the kids. So what's your other point? I'd like to hear it. Is it more than for the kids? Yes, it's for the politics, Mr. Speaker, as well as the kids. And those who believe that they should lay the cornerstone of socialized medicine and see to it that children in America are all covered by the taxpayer's dollar rather than the responsibility of the parents and with the help of, in most cases, their employers. 
   If this becomes a responsibility and entitlement for the taxpayers to fund health insurance for kids, then pretty soon there's no distinction between a health insurance subsidy out of the taxpayers and just simply funding the health care for children. The distinction blurs and at some point there's no distinction, then, between Medicaid, which provides for those kids in poor families and adults, and providing health care for all kids in America. If you pay their insurance premium, you're paying their health care. 
   This majority on the Speaker Pelosi side of the aisle wants to pay for almost all, if not all, of the health insurance premiums for the kids in America. And if you do that, you know that there will not be private health insurance any longer in this country, and you know that eventually there will not be, either, insurance plans. It will just simply be government-funded health care for all kids in America. 
   Bill Clinton knew that. He knew that when he stood on this floor on September 22, 1993, and addressed a joint session of Congress and laid out his strategy and health care plan. And if you'll remember from that address that he gave to the Nation--it was essentially unprecedented, a joint session of Congress to speak about health care--from that address to the Nation, he convened the Hillary Hearings and those meetings, some of them in public, some of them in private. And that was another case, Mr. Speaker, where the American people started to pay attention. They didn't get to see everything that went on. A lot of it was behind closed doors and a lot of the staff work that went on was certainly behind closed doors. We still can't get that information. It's still locked up in the Archives and we're still waiting for President Clinton to issue a letter request to release that information so we can evaluate what went on behind the scenes. 
   But the American people knew this. They did not want socialized health care in America. They understood what happened in places like Great Britain and Canada and they want to have a private system that will allow individuals to make some of their own and they should be able to make all of their own health care decisions. And so the American people rose up even then and rejected the plan that came out that has become known as Hillary-care. That's another example of a national conversation, Mr. Speaker, that went on at that time not with the benefit of very much e-mail, not with the benefit of the Internet in an effective way but with the benefit of television and radio and print media and telephones and conversations that were going on at church, at play, at work and across this country. The American people came to a consensus and said, we don't want Hillary-care, rejected it, and so preserved a measure of the private care that we have today. Another example of how a national conversation comes together. 
   We are engaged in this right now, Mr. Speaker. The alternative minimum tax is not a fix, all in the same environment as the SCHIP debate which is designed to lay the cornerstone of socialized medicine, bring people over to the dependency side of this and whenever we make people more dependent, they become less self-reliant by definition and when that happens, we lose the vitality of the American people. We need to understand why we have this vitality. The vitality of the American people comes from a number of things. I call them the pillars of American exceptionalism. Some of this vitality is because we have an excellent educational system in this country. Perhaps I'll return to that a little bit later, Mr. Speaker. 
   But I would point out, also, that we have a culture here, a culture where we raise our children to study hard, to work hard, to save, to invest, to be creative, to be risk takers, to be entrepreneurs. All of that fits within the umbrella definition of working to achieve the American Dream. Each of us has a different definition of what that American Dream means to us. My sons have a different view than I had. I have a different view than my father had. But that's something in our culture that we raise our children to. And I will define this American Dream this way: to leave this country and this world a better place than when you found it. To always build, build, build, work to improve, grow this economy, improve the infrastructure, build the systems here that give our children more opportunity than we had. And every generation of Americans have had that opportunity that's been greater than the opportunity that their parents had, which was better than the opportunity that their grandparents had and so on back to the beginnings of the Founders. That's the American Dream, to create and build a country that's better than it was. 
   So this vitality that we have, it's tied into our Judeo-Christian values, it's tied to western civilization, it's tied to free enterprise capitalism and property rights, not just the property rights to own your house but the right to invent a widget or a gadget and take it to the patent office and get it patented, to protect your copyrights, to protect your trademarks and those things. Solid currency, property rights, constitutional rights, a tradition of free enterprise capitalism, all of that ties together to make this the best place in the world to do business and the best place in the world to raise your children. And when we pass policies that diminish that, that would punish people for producing and then reward people for not producing, yes, it's good to take care of the kids but those kids don't need that help when their parents are making $103,000 a year. And they probably don't need that help if their parents are making $77,000 a year. And they may be doing just fine if their parents are making $51,625 a year. They're not coming to me saying, I can't make it on only $51,000 a year. 
   But we would push them off their private health insurance, we would crowd them out and we would say to their parents, Don't work so hard because we're going to tax you if you produce too much. 
   So I submit, Mr. Speaker, we need to get to a tax policy that recognizes the merits and the uniqueness of American exceptionalism, a tax policy that recognizes that when 51 percent of Americans are no longer paying taxes but they're voting for the people that will give them benefits out of the public Treasury, maybe on that day our constitutional republic will cease to exist. 
   But maybe we've passed that point now and maybe there's a way to get back. So I'll submit here's a way to get back. Let's pass the FairTax. Let's take a look and understand this. Ronald Reagan once said that what you tax, you get less of. He also said what you subsidize you get more of. So if we subsidize dependency, we're going to have more dependency. But if we tax production, we're going to have less production. 
   And this might be a revelation to some people on the other side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, but the Federal Government has the first lien on all productivity in America. If you walk into your factory and punch the clock at 8 o'clock next Monday morning, as soon as you punch that time card in there, Uncle Sam's hand goes out and he's standing there waiting to get his  due. He taxes your work, your labor, your productivity from the first second of the first day of the week and he will tax it until such time as he gets his due. Then he puts it in his pocket and you can go off and go to work for the State, then for the county, then perhaps for the city, and some time pretty late in the week you get to make a little bit of money to feed your kids. 
   The first lien on all productivity in America is Uncle Sam, hand out, you punch the time card. Maybe you put that savings that you have that's left out of what he doesn't tax and you put that in a bank account or invest it maybe in the stock market, maybe in a mutual fund. Well, there's the interest. There's the dividends. Guess what. Uncle Sam's hand is out for that, too. Maybe you invest in a business. You decide you're going to manufacture automobiles or widgets or computers, or sometimes we say in my part of the district, layovers to catch muddlers. If you do that, Uncle Sam is there to tax the profit on it and he'll tax the labor that goes into it. 
   We have a real misunderstanding here when we decide we're going to tax corporations or businesses that provide goods and services, because something that we know, Mr. Speaker, is that business, and particularly corporations--let me put those both together without drawing a distinction between them--businesses and corporations do not pay taxes. They have to pass those taxes along to people. Consumers pay taxes. 
   But the government has a first lien on all productivity. So we tax that productivity, whether it is capital gains, if you buy a farm for $1,000 an acre and sell it for $2,000 an acre, Uncle Sam wants to tax that thousand dollars profit. And if you sell some stock shares and you paid $5,000 and they had a good earnings and you collect $10,000 for them, Uncle Sam wants to tax the difference, the $5,000 in profit.     
   And he wants to tax your passbook savings account, and does. And he has a first lien on your Social Security income, on your pension income, earnings, savings, investment dividends, capital gains. He taxes everything that is indexed to productivity in America. A first lien on all productivity in America. And why? 
   Don't we understand here in this Congress that what you tax you get less of. Why wouldn't we consider the idea of taking the tax off of all productivity in America and put it on consumption? I won't say that we have too much consumption, because that keeps the economic wheels turning; but we have too little savings and investment. If we tax consumption, we will get more savings and more investment and we will have more capital and we will be better positioned to take care of our own retirement and our own health care through our working years and perhaps on through retirement. 
   If we do this idea of totally reforming our Tax Code and shifting it over to a fair tax, a national sales tax, a consumption tax on all goods and services in America, why would we not do that? That would be the fairest way. I am reluctant to use the word ``fair'' because anybody who has raised two or more children knows there is no such thing as ``fair.'' You will begin to understand that fairness is in the perception of the one who utters the word. 
   Going to the fair tax, the national sales tax, H.R. 25 does this: it untaxes the poor and it makes everybody in America a taxpayer at the same time. It preserves our constitutional Republic because every little kid growing up in America, when they buy their baseball cards or Barbie Doll clothes, they will have to put a couple of dimes up for Uncle Sam. 
   If you wonder how this works within the mind-set of young people, I will tell you a story of a young little man, Michael Dicks. And he can be very proud of his father. He was 8 years old when I heard this story so I suspect he is 9 or 10 right now. 
   He had saved money to buy some Skittles. He went into the store with his money, 89 cents. That was the price. He got the candy Skittles off the shelf and put them on the counter. And the lady rang it up and said, 96 cents. 
   He said 96 cents? But I only have 89 cents. They are 89 cents. It says on the box. 
   Yes, but you have to pay the tax, so that is 96 cents. 
   The tax? And he turned to his father and said, Dad, I have to pay tax on Skittles? 
   Mr. Speaker, yes, this young man, Michael Dicks, learned he had to pay tax on Skittles because that is the sales tax in Iowa because we do tax candy and not other types of food. So he understood it costs money to fund the government. The 7 cents that got added on was a 7-cent lesson that rang up in the mind of Michael Dicks who now knows you have to fund the government. He learned at the age of 8. He will probably remember for a lifetime. 
   I don't know the balance of the story, but the next time he reaches in his pocket to buy something, he will know he has to pay the tax. That factors into his transaction on whether he will spend the money. 
   I will submit, Mr. Speaker, if every little kid growing up in America has to reach into their pocket for a couple of dimes for Uncle Sam, if they have to dig the 7 cents out for the tax, if they turn to their father and say, Dad, I have to pay tax on Skittles, these young men and women will grow up understanding that government is expensive and they will put less demands on government, and they will put less demands on their Members of Congress, less demand on their Governors and State Representatives and State Senators and less demand on their county and city governments, and they will be more personally self-reliant and they will be more generous in their contributions to society because they understand it is not somebody else paying the tax, it is they that are paying the tax. They have to dig in their pocket to pay the tax. 
   And those billions of transactions laid across millions of kids growing up eventually percolates into this Congress where we will have people who come down to this floor and understand that government is not the solution to everything. It is not the be all, end all. It is not the place to fight out class envy battles. It is the place to ask for more personal responsibility. It is the place to show spending restraint. We need some restraint on spending. 
   It is not a place to grow and blow this budget, to create more of a dependency class. It is not a place to say we want to take some funds here that seem to be anonymous coming out of somebody else and spread them across somebody out here that we claim has a need for the purpose of moving us closer to socialism, and it does, Mr. Speaker. 
   No, this is the kind of country that is great and was made great by individuals who took personal responsibility, who were creative entrepreneurs, who were wonderful mothers and fathers who understood the dream of our Founders and this gift that God has given this country, that is reflected through the work that our Founders did in the Declaration and the Constitution. 
   Mr. Speaker, we are going backwards in this 110th Congress. We are creating more dependency, not less. SCHIP is one, and the alternative minimum tax is another. 
   While all of this is going on, we passed several pieces of energy legislation that takes us in the wrong direction again, that makes us more dependent, not less. 
   There has not been a piece of energy legislation that has come across the floor of this Congress that did anything except increase the cost of energy, that made energy more scarce, that made the cost of a Btu higher than it was before. 
   I have listened to all of the debates and the arguments, and nobody really stood up over there and said I think it is a good idea to increase the cost of gasoline or heating oil for the homes. 
   But what they really say is a convoluted argument that gets this goal. As I listen between the lines, I have become convinced that there are significant Members on that side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, that really do want to see energy prices higher, energy prices higher, more cost per Btu. Why? Because they believe if energy is higher in cost, people will use less of it. They will park their car and ride their bicycle. And meanwhile, some of the people who are advocating such a thing are living in mansions with large carbon footprints, way beyond anything I could make in my meager life here. 
   So the idea of more expensive energy, you need to come clean on that. If you  believe in that, stand up and say so. I believe you believe in that. 
   So as energy gets more expensive, we are going the wrong way. The right way to go with energy is to grow the size of the energy pie. There are X number of Btus on the market. If you think of that in a pie chart, coal, nuclear, solar, gas, and diesel fuel. And then we look into some that I like even better, ethanol, biodiesel and wind, those renewable energies that get attached to solar, and I think hydroelectric should be considered a renewable energy as well because it is very environmentally friendly and we could make more of it if we could get there politically. 
   If you add up all of those pieces of the pie and envision them as slices of the overall pie, and there is another slice, and that is energy conservation. But we don't need a pie this big, we need a pie this big. We need to add to the Btus on the market, the overall energy, and change the overall proportion so it is a larger slice for ethanol, a larger slice for biodiesel, a larger slice for wind, and where we can make a cash flow, a larger slice for solar. And clean-burning coal technology has a home here that we have to be supportive of for a long time to come. 
   All of those things add more Btus to the market. When you do that, the laws of supply and demand, and maybe some people on that side of the aisle believe they have repealed since they have taken over the gavels in this Congress, I will submit it is always supply and demand in the end. 
   Unless you can repeal the law of supply and demand, we will see the Btus get cheaper. The overall cost of our energy per unit of energy will get cheaper if we put more of it on the market. 
   So we increase the volume of energy we are producing, we put it on the market and that will slow the increase in the cost. And if we do it effectively enough, it will reduce the cost of our energy. 
   I will submit this, Mr. Speaker, we need more gas. 
   We need more diesel fuel. We need to drill in ANWR and the Outer Continental Shelf. We need to work some kind of transactions so we have access to the developing oil fields in the world. The Chinese are doing that in an effective fashion. They have built a pipeline from Kazakhstan into China. The Chinese are in the Western Hemisphere drilling for oil that we won't go get. While we prohibit drilling offshore in places off the Outer Continental Shelf within the 200-mile range. Some say with Chinese assistance, they are drilling closer to America than we can drill to America. I haven't verified that, but I intend to verify that particular thing. 
   So we need to grow the size of the energy pie. If we do that, the cost will be cheaper, not greater. It will take down some of the prices of our energy. Energy is interrelated. The cost of gasoline is related to the cost of diesel fuel, is related to the cost of ethanol to biodiesel, to the overall cost of natural gas to the propane component that is there. And the more energy we can put on the market, the better off we are. And the more we can increase the conservation, the less demand there is for that energy. 
   We need to have a coherent energy policy in this Congress, not one that is haphazard or one that has a subliminal wish over here that is unspoken that we should increase the cost of energy because then we will have less people driving cars and more people riding bicycles. That takes us back to pre-Garden of Eden standards of technology, and I reject that. 
   And I will raise the issue, to rebut Cornell University and the University of California Berkley who have rolled out a study that argues that ethanol consumes more energy than it creates. That is simply not a fact, Mr. Speaker. 
   I wouldn't know why anyone would go to a place like Cornell or University of California Berkley to get their ethanol facts. Come to Iowa. We are the number one ethanol production State in the Union. The United States of America has surpassed Brazil in ethanol production some 2 1/2 years ago. People think you should go to Brazil to pick up on their technology. I wasn't all that impressed with what I saw there. But we can be impressed with what we developed in the corn belt. And it is not just Iowa. Minnesota took a good lead, and it is flowing into States like Nebraska and Illinois. 
   We have state-of-the-art technology, and we are improving on it yet that brings us a significant amount of efficiency in converting corn to ethanol. There will be a limit to the number of gallons we can produce. But it works like this. Cornell and UC Berkley took a position that it took substantially more energy to produce a gallon of ethanol out of a bushel of corn than you got out of the gallon of ethanol. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is important that we understand that energy needs to be in the kind of composition that we can utilize it. And so if we have gasoline that is liquid and we can put it into our tank and drive down the road, we can utilize it. 
   If we have coal in the ground and it is 100 feet below the surface, it is not easy to utilize. But we mine it. Sometimes we mine it and sometimes we open pit it. We do harvest that coal. Then we convert the coal. We run it through a grinder and run it through a series of plates that pulverize the coal and inject it into a fire to turn it heat so we can turn the heat into steam and the live steam then is converted into kinetic energy which spins the generator that sends the electricity down the wires that goes into the electric motor. That is a long way from coal underground in Wyoming to spinning an electric motor in some place like Georgia. By the way, that coal from Wyoming does get to Georgia to do just what I said. 
   But that is converting an energy source into a usable form. The usable form turns out to be the electricity way on the other end of that process. And look how far gasoline has to travel to get into the tank. You have to drill a hole and get down into that crude oil. You have to pump out that crude oil and send it to the refinery and crack that gas out of that crude oil into a form that you can get it up to the gas station and into the pump, through the nozzle so you can get it into your tank so you can burn the gas to turn it into energy to drive your car down the road.     
   We do the same thing with ethanol. So this energy that's required to convert ethanol, there are several ways to measure it but it comes to this. It takes energy to get a barrel of crude oil to the refinery, let's say in Texas, and it takes energy to get a bushel of corn to the gates of the ethanol plant in Iowa. But once you set that barrel of crude oil down at the refinery or that bushel of corn down at the ethanol plant, now it takes energy to get it out. 
   People say that it takes more to get the energy out of ethanol than you get out of it. Mr. Speaker, I'm here to quote into the Record the real numbers, and it works out to be something like this. There's something about 110,000 Btus of energy in a gallon of gasoline, and there's something like 76,100 Btus of energy in a gallon of ethanol. It's about a .7 factor. There's less energy in a gallon of ethanol than there is a gallon of gasoline. We know that. We factor that in. 
   But if you think of a gallon of gasoline or gallon of ethanol, of each containing 100,000 Btus, that's kind of in the ballpark of the energy you get out of a gallon, and if you compare the Btus straight up, then to get 100,000 Btus out of a barrel of crude oil, one of those $96 barrel of crude oil, if you factor the energy it takes to convert the crude oil to 100,000 Btus of energy, it will take 130,000 Btus to convert that crude oil to get 100,000 Btus of energy. It takes 130,000 Btus to get 100,000 Btus out of a barrel of crude oil in the form of gasoline. More energy required to crack it out and turn it into gas than you get in the gas itself. 
   But on the other side, at the gate of the ethanol plant, if you have a bushel of corn, the energy required to convert that corn into 100,000 Btus of ethanol, roughly a gallon equivalent but matched up exactly to the gasoline, is 67,000 Btus of energy to get the corn into 100,000 Btus of energy in ethanol. 
   So those numbers work out this way. Two jugs here, one with ethanol in it, one with gas in it, each with 100,000 Btus of energy. The gas jug took 130,000 Btus to produce that. The ethanol took 67,000 Btus to convert that to 100,000 Btus of energy. So it's roughly twice as much energy to turn crude oil into a gasoline equivalent yield result as it is to turn corn into ethanol. That's the fact. That's the facts that places like Cornell and University of California  Berkeley don't seem to understand so well, Mr. Speaker. 
   I want to make sure that went into the Congressional Record, but overall is this, we need to grow the size of the energy pie. We need to drill in ANWR because that's our oil, and there's no better place it could be. We need to go to the Outer Continental Shelf and drill the Outer Continental Shelf where we have 406 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. And that natural gas, by the way, is 90 percent of the feedstock that's required, 90 percent of the overall cost to produce nitrogen, which is the fertilizer foundation for the food we eat. We should not be dependent upon the Venezuelans or the Russians for their fertilizer that would essentially slow down or potentially control the food in the world. 
   We should pass a fair tax so that we can take our tax off of all production and put it on consumption. And we should not do class envy things like a temporary patch for this alternative minimum tax that turns it into a permanent tax increase of $82.5 billion. We should not pay for temporary tax cuts with permanent tax increases. 
   We should not be subsidizing health insurance for kids and families that are making $103,000 a year or more. We should be rewarding those that work better than those that don't so we can maintain this vitality of American exceptionalism. 
   And we should be downright grateful that we have had in the past, but not today, a logical immigration policy that was designed to enhance the economic, the social, and the cultural well-being of the United States of America and reached out across the world, and from every country, from every civilization, we received the cream of the crop. The people that came here had to overcome burdens and hurdles and difficulties to get here. That meant they had to have a dream. They had to have a dream that sometimes they sold themselves into servitude to come here and maybe for 7 years they worked to pay off their passage into the United States. 
   I have a great-great-grandfather, multiple greats back, that did that and landed in Baltimore as an indentured servant. But the people that had a dream found a way to come here, and those that sorted themselves out from their societies, and maybe it was for religious freedom and maybe it was for economic freedom, and hopefully it was for both, they came here and established a culture that's a Judeo-Christian Western civilization culture that recognizes that this is a great country that protects individuals' rights. 
   And we have, because we've skimmed the cream off of the Nations in the world and brought their vitality here and because we have the rights that are identified in the Bill of Rights and in our Constitution, because we have a Judeo-Christian Western civilization, Protestant work ethic culture that the Catholics have done a great job of jumping on board with and a number of other denominations as well, we have this vitality here that makes us the unchallenged greatest Nation in the world. 
   And it's our duty, Mr. Speaker, to preserve and protect and promote that great blessing that we have inherited here. That's our duty on the floor of this Congress. That's what should come to the floor as the policy unfolds, not class envy but lifting each of us up and keeping faith with God and with our Founders. 
   I thank you, Mr. Speaker, for the privilege to address you and the floor of the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (BUDGET SCHOOL -- (House of Representatives - April 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentlelady from Tennessee for organizing this Special Order and for the privilege to address you, Mr. Speaker. 
   This budget issue that rolls out in front of us, I'd like to take us back to anchor it a little bit on what's really going on. And we haven't gone very far into all the news and the indicators we have on this economy, but this budget is the largest tax increase in the history of America; it amounts to $683 billion in tax increases over the next 5 years. That's almost triple the largest tax increase in history that took place in 1993. We remember that year, 1993, that was a $240.6 billion tax increase, about a third of what this one amounts to in `93. We will look back and remember what happened in 1994, Republicans took over the majority in the House of Representatives partly because of overspending. 
   But as we followed this economy a little over a year ago, I remember the swearing-in ceremony here on the floor of Congress when Speaker Pelosi took the gavel for the first time. I watched what went on when all new committee chairs for the first time in 12 years picked up the gavel and began to manage their committees. And I watched as the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee went on the talk circuit all around the country, media stop after media stop after media stop, and he was constantly asked, are you, Chairman Rangel, going to make the Bush tax cuts permanent? Are you going to preserve any part of the Bush tax cuts? And he demurred on a straight answer time after time. But by a process of elimination it became clear to the American investor that those Bush tax cuts were not going to be made permanent, that every one of them was going to be designed to end, expire and fail at some point. 
   Now, these tax cuts, the big ones, the ones that matter, was on May 28, 2007. That was when we had the real tax cuts that inspired this economy. And we have been on a growth pattern ever since that time and today we're still on that growth pattern in spite of what they say about our economy if you just track the DOW. But when the public understood and the investment community understood that the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee was going to continue down this path of spending, that he didn't see a tax cut he liked and he didn't see a tax increase that he didn't like, they stopped investing in industrial investment. 
   The reduction in industrial investment that took place January, February, March, April and onwards of 2007 was the lead indicator for this economic inactivity that we're seeing today. That was item number one, the understanding that there would be tax increases, this understanding that we know, according to Adam Smith and Wealth of Nations from 1776 when he said ``the cost of any goods is the cost of the labor that it takes to produce it and the capital required to support the labor.'' And the cost of capital went up because of the tax increases that were around the corner, the tax increases that were implicit in this budget. When the cost of capital went up, capital is always reactive and smart, and capital investments declined. That led us into the subprime, and we know about the subprime, but that's only really about $150 billion in real losses. There might be a greater reaction on that in this Congress, but about $150 billion. That's equivalent to a dollar a gallon on gasoline. By the way, there's no energy policy either. 
   But what this matters to us in this country is, we want to slow this growth in spending. We want to balance this budget. We want to bring a budget that gets us down to a responsible budget. And we want to get into the entitlements, fix Medicaid, fix Medicare, fix Social Security. And if we go down this path and we see the tax increases that were part of this, we put in it in one term that's relevant, what's relevant to us, how does this affect the family of four, mom, dad and two kids that are making $50,000 a year? The result of this budget and the tax increases that are part of it to a family of four making $50,000 a year, it will cost them annually $2,100 in additional taxes. 
   And additionally, we're paying more for gas. We have no plan for a balanced budget coming out of the majority side. This economy has been driven down into the drink because of lack of confidence, lack of an energy policy, because of the tax increases that reduce the capital investment, especially in industrial investment, and because of the subprime. 
   Things that you do in a bad economy are not increase taxes, not increase government spending. You don't take a larger share out of your gross domestic product and roll that into government, that's the nonproductive sector of the economy. That's one I'm not feeling charitable; I call that the parasitic sector of the economy. We need to have more dollars in the productive sector and the private sector of the economy; that means less taxes, less government, more personal responsibility, more fiscal discipline on the part of this Congress and this House where we start the spending here. 
   So, I applaud the gentlelady for leading this Special Order. I look forward to many more. I look forward to the day when I can say, I stood on the floor of this Congress and voted for a balanced budget that made it through the Senate to the President's desk, and fiscal responsibility, and letting people keep the money that they earn. 
   Thank you for yielding. I appreciate it. 
   I yield back to the gentlelady from Tennessee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (BUDGET SCHOOL -- (House of Representatives - April 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. As I look at your chart, it occurs to me that that's Federal spending. And I'm going to speculate here, though, that if we would add to that the State and the political subdivision spending on to that, because that also is a share of the GDP, we have a significantly higher percentage. And I would think that that percentage today may well go to 37 percent. 
   I've seen some studies by some very well-respected and highly credentialed economists that make the argument that there's a right size to government, and that right size to government, when you add all the taxation across the spectrum, from Federal to State to local, that right size of government taxing a percentage of GDP, they believe, falls somewhere between 17 and 23 percent. So I'd just argue that we've passed that already, and we've got to go down in those numbers. I'd like to see those bar charts go down. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - October 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the ranking member for yielding to me and appreciate the privilege to address this issue again here on the House floor. 
   I think we miss the point sometimes on what this is about. This isn't about sometimes the nuances of all of this. This is about where we take this Nation, and I'm seeing this debate in Iowa and across this country. 
   And what this is about, SCHIP stands for Socialized, Clinton-style Hillarycare for Illegals and their Parents. That's what happens, and it is illegals that are being funded by this because all they have to do is write down a Social Security number. 
   The CBO, the Congressional Budget Office, has given us a number, $6.5 billion in additional costs that flow over to people that are not citizens because we've lowered the standards. Whatever gets said, that's the language that's in there, and the cost is there, $6.5 billion. 
   So this is SCHIP, Socialized Clinton-style Hillarycare for Illegals and their Parents. This is the cornerstone of socialized medicine. It's put in place. That's what this debate is about: make people dependent so they don't have individual responsibility and you can have more people dependent upon your votes on the floor of this Congress and less vitality in America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (SCHIP -- (House of Representatives - October 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the privilege to address you here on the floor of the United States House of Representatives. 
   There have been a number of times that I have come down here to convey a message to you and the American people. And after having listened to the gentleman from Florida and his 30-Something colleagues, my material has just gotten so massive, I'm not sure I can rebut all that in the time that I have, let alone convey the message that I came here to convey, Mr. Speaker. 
   First of all, there seems to be great confusion on the Democrat side of the aisle about the difference between health insurance and health care. They seem to believe, or at least would like to have the American people believe, that kids in America are being denied health care. 
   This debate about SCHIP has never been about health care. I would draw this comparison: You will hear often in the debates in this country about people are pro-immigrant or anti-immigrant. And when I say that, Mr. Speaker, people draw up an image about being pro-immigrant and anti-immigrant. Some people think illegal immigrants; some people think, appropriately, legal immigrants. When we say ``immigrant,'' we should imply legal immigrant, and when we talk about illegal immigrants, we should say so. 
   The same goes with health care and health insurance. To interchange the terms and, I think, willfully inform the  American people that this debate is about health care and to stand on the floor of the United States Congress and convey a message, Mr. Speaker, to the American people that there are kids in America that are not getting health care is not an accurate statement. And the gentleman from Florida, if he would examine his words and the meanings of the language, would know it's not an accurate statement. 
   This is a debate about how many Federal dollars we are going to extract from hardworking Americans to put into federally subsidized health insurance, hopefully for kids. That's what SCHIP is about. But it is not even about all kids, because today, under the current program, the program that was drafted up in 1997 and became law in 1998, was created by a Republican Congress, and it was created in the immediate aftermath of welfare reform. 
   Remember welfare-to-work? We had generations of people that had become so dependent on welfare that they forgot about working. We needed to move them off of welfare, and we called it ``workfare'' part of the time. 
   We also recognized that people that were low income, the working poor, when you would take them off of welfare, they didn't have enough funds to fund the health insurance for their children, so we created the State Children's Health Insurance Program. That's SCHIP. It's 10 years old now today and we are talking about reauthorizing it. That is federally funded health insurance premiums for kids. 
   But this program, even under the current law, has morphed into a program that if you go up to Minnesota and take a look, 87 percent of the recipients of SCHIP are adults. And most of those adults are not parents; they are single adults. And if you go to Wisconsin, 66 percent of those who are on SCHIP are adults. They have changed this program and they have morphed it away from being a program that was about health insurance premium subsidy for kids. That's a discussion they can't name. 
   And I challenge anyone over here, stand up now, I will yield to you. Name one kid in America that doesn't have access to health care, one health care provider that slammed their door in the face of a kid in America or anyone in America because they didn't have health insurance. 
   No. We take care of everyone's health care needs in America. That is not the crisis. If it was, you can bet the Pelosi side of the aisle would have marched them down here and maybe brought them up into the well for a photo op. But that population of this country doesn't exist. Everyone in America has access to health care, legal or illegal, for that matter.     
   And every child especially has access to health care. 
   Now, we would prefer that they all have health insurance because we believe that those who have health insurance do a better job of going for their regular check-ups, and the medical providers will track their cases and be able to monitor them and be able to get early warning signs of chronic diseases or illnesses, and be able to maintain their health in a far more effective fashion for two reasons. 
   One is it improves the quality of life for the children in this country, and the other is it saves money. That's why we established the SCHIP program in the first place. But it wasn't designed to take hard-earned taxpayer dollars and put them into the pockets of people who could afford health insurance for their own children; and especially it wasn't designed to be able to put the Federal incentive in place to push kids off, to talk kids off, to put an incentive so that their parents made a decision or their employer made a decision not to insure them when they were already insuring them. 
   And yet if you look at the numbers, the Congressional Budget Office, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office that the gentleman from Florida would have to acknowledge gives us the most objective number we have, says that under this proposal that the President appropriately vetoed and that this Congress refused to override would take 2 million kids today that are funded with private health insurance and push them off of that onto the government roll. 
   Now, why would we want to do that? What would be our incentive? If nobody's going without health care, if we have kids that don't have health insurance that are getting health care, why would we create a program or why would we grow a program that's going to take 2 million kids off of the private rolls and put them on the government? You have to be somebody that believes in socialized medicine to advocate for such a thing. 
   And when Republicans bring a policy that recruits more of the uninsured to go on the rolls at 200 percent of poverty and below, where I have voted and consistently supported this program and voted to appropriate funds to this program, both as a State senator and as a Member of Congress, 200 percent of poverty, I can take you to where it is in my State today, that's an example I know to be fact, we can always discuss what's fact and what isn't, but in my State today a family of four, that's mom and dad and two kids, qualifies for SCHIP, that in Iowa we call it Hawk-I, premium subsidy if they're making less than $51,625 a year, Mr. Speaker. Now, that's probably a little above what's middle income for a family of four in the State of Iowa. 
   And so if we've already gone above the line of where the median is, this Pelosi Congress passed this SCHIP legislation, not over here at 300 percent of poverty, passed it over here at 400 percent of poverty, Mr. Speaker. That was the vision of the San Francisco values that have been brought here to the gavel in the chair where you're seated right now, 400 percent of poverty. Now, was there a clamor from the public that we should take their tax dollars and subsidize health insurance premiums for already insured kids that families were making over $103,000 a year? I didn't have a single letter that said so. I got a few that said, I think we ought to have socialized medicine. I think the Canadian plan is pretty good, the British plan is pretty good. The European model is all right. 
   They disregard the long lines and the poor care. They disregard the fact that when you go to socialized medicine you have companies created in Canada for the purpose of facilitating access to American health care systems, companies that have sprung up because the Canadian is barred from having any special pass to go in front of the line; they all have to get to the back of the line. And so people don't always live long enough to get to their health care provider in places like Canada. That's what I want to avoid. 
   And the companies in Canada that are created will set up this package and it will be, well, if you need a hip replacement, here's how we will do this. We will set it up so you can go to a clinic for a check-up, and we'll fly you down to whatever city it might be, let's pick one, let's say Minneapolis, and there we will give you a hotel room, or let's go to the Mayo Clinic, that's even better, in Rochester. We'll fly you down there. Here's the package; here's your hotel room; here's what it's going to cost you to go to the clinic; here's the surgeon, here's the anesthesiologist; here's the whole package. 
   Now you figure out you can write the check to take the weekend tour to go down to the Mayo Clinic in Rochester and get your new hip replacement and go back to Canada, because they can't get access to health care there because they have socialized medicine. That's what this debate is about, Mr. Speaker. It's about laying the cornerstone for socialized medicine in the United States of America. 
   Here we are in a country where every kid, every person, every adult, legal or illegal, has access to health care, and we would like to increase the numbers of insured. But a Nation that has the highest quality health care in the world, one who is the most innovative of all nations in the world, the ones that has produced more new pharmaceuticals, more new surgical techniques, more new medical technology than any other nation, however you want to measure it, as a percentage of our GDP, as a percent of our population, measure it just as the sum total of the contribution to health care in the world, this country's medical practitioners and providers are the ones that have done that. 
   And this cornerstone to socialized medicine that is attempted to be laid here by this Pelosi Congress undermines that innovativeness, that service, that quality that we have. And  that's why 150-some of us voted ``no'' on overriding the President's veto. That's why the President vetoed it, because your health care, Americans, is more important than the political demagoguery that's going on here on the floor of the United States Congress. 
   The confusion between health care and health insurance, this debate is about health insurance, it's about us on the Republican side wanting to increase the percentage of covered kids under SCHIP under the 200 percent of poverty here, those that are not covered now that can be and still qualify, and us, as Republicans on this side, wanting to roll down the numbers of adults that have found their way into this system to be 87 percent of the recipients in Minnesota, 66 percent in Wisconsin, and a dozen or so other States that have crossed this line. 
   That's a standard that we're for, and it's something that they are opposed to. They won't speak up to the real issue that's here, Mr. Speaker, but this isn't about health care. It's about Federal subsidy of health insurance; it's about taking dollars out of people's pockets. 
   And so at this level over here, Mr. Speaker, I will submit that it works this way: we have this thing called the alternative minimum tax, which was created to tax the wealthy. They weren't paying enough tax, so Congress created a new tax, the alternative minimum tax. And under this SCHIP proposal there will be, the one that passed Congress the first time, that's over here, 70,000 families in America would qualify for SCHIP subsidy, Federal taxpayer funding, and still have to pay the alternative minimum tax, the tax on the wealthy, at the same time they're being subsidized and they can't afford the health insurance for their kids. 
   Now, figure that out. Think about how the circle has crossed. One circle over here is those that are so poor they need help, and the other circle over here is those that are making so much money we've got to give them an extra tax. But when you cross those two circles together, Mr. Speaker, and where they cross, that crescent in the middle, is 70,000 families, 70,000 families paying the alternative minimum tax and qualifying for Federal benefits for health insurance. I think that tells you that the loop for socialized medicine would be closed with this, and that's another reason the President vetoed it. 
   Another subject matter that was brought up by the gentleman from Florida is this subject of the billions of dollars that are spent on the global war on terror, and of course he would focus it on Iraq, which is a battle ground in the global war on terror, billions of dollars. And the argument is we can spend billions of dollars on the war, but we can't spend $35 billion subsidizing health insurance for middle-income and upper-income children of those parents that are middle- and upper-income. 
   Now, think about this: How cynical would you have to be to draw a diabolical argument that here we spend money over here on the war, if we've got enough money for the war, we surely have enough money for health insurance for these kids? I mean, if that's the case, if the gentleman from Florida is drawing a legitimate comparison, then you have to look at the resources over there for our soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines and say, well, I'm sorry, we're going to have to take $35 billion out of your resources and put them over here to subsidize health insurance for these kids, these kids that are getting health care, by the way. 
   So how many fewer bullets, how many fewer bullet-proof vests, how many MREs, how much tank fuel or aircraft fuel, how many repair parts for a Blackhawk helicopter, how much surveillance equipment out there we would have to sacrifice to take away from those soldiers to fund this Pelosi plan for SCHIP? That's the other side of the argument. 
   So if they're sincere, and I have heard Member after Member, Democrat after Democrat, come to this floor and go to the media and send out press releases that we're spending money on the war, we ought to be able to spend the money on the kids, well, if this is a zero sum game, then how many bullet-proof vests do they want to take away from our soldiers? How many Humvees? How much armor protection personnel? How much training, how much communication, how much human intelligence would we be willing to take away and how much risk would we be willing to put our soldiers through so that we could justify this program? 
   I think when they're confronted with the reality of that argument, they would have to confess that they would never allow an amendment on the floor that would cause them to have to put up a vote and go on record to make that decision. But they will ask you to believe that somehow, that because we spend money on war, that gives justification to create a socialized medicine program here. We know what the agenda is: it is socialized medicine. 
   And then I would argue, also, that to lay this thing out clearly, I'm going to go down through these, if I can, Mr. Speaker. This is a bit of a surprise package, I'm not sure what's underneath here, but we'll go with what we have, and that is, how do we fund this SCHIP according to the Pelosi plan? 
   Well, we're doing it with an increase on tax on cigarettes. Right now, the Federal tax is 39 cents a pack. This bill that the President vetoed, that this Congress refused to override, adds 61 cents a pack to cigarettes. So now the Federal tax will be $1 a pack. The States can do whatever they want. The idea is if you raise the price of cigarettes, people will smoke less. Well, that's kind of a good thing, I would think, Mr. Speaker. 
   But if we're going to fund this SCHIP program, these $35 billion worth of increases, then over this period of time, as we see here in this chart that is laid out, it takes it out to 22.4 million new smokers have to be recruited in order to fund this expansion of this socialized medicine program of laying the cornerstone by SCHIP; 22.4 million new smokers. Now, that runs directly against the belief, and probably to some degree of fact, that the more it costs, the less people will smoke. So we add $1 a pack, and now we have to still raise, and even though the price goes up by a 156 percent increase, we still have to recruit 22.4 million new smokers. Now, I don't want to be involved in that, Mr. Speaker. I don't want that on my conscience. I don't want to have 
   to bring Joe Camel back and run him through the schools so we can get new smokers to fund insurance for these kids. 
   And another thing I would add is that, if this is about the kids, every dollar that is added to this program is added to the national debt. Now, who is going to pay that national debt? Somebody that's 58 years old or somebody that's maybe 8 years old? And I'm going to say that the ruse that this is about the kids, while at the same time pushing that $35 billion into the national debt and asking those same kids that you say you're trying to help to pay the debt they incurred, I think is where the real hypocrisy lands, Mr. Speaker. 22.4 million new smokers? Not a very sound plan. 
   This chart tells you what happens when you start raising the premium subsidy up for health insurance. When you get up here to this level and you get to 400 percent of poverty, which this Congress passed, then 95 percent of the kids that are on private health insurance will drop off of that private health insurance and they'll go on government. So even if they're making $1 million a year, 95 percent of those kids go to the government premium side. 
   If you take it on down to 400 percent of poverty and below, it's 89 percent. And as we go down lower to where we are now, it's 50 percent. I contend that, if the parents have a job and the health insurance is with the job and the employer has put a health care package out, their health insurance package out there that includes the family, and most do, why would you put a program in place that's going to cause the employer to do this calculus: I don't know why I'm paying for that if the government will pay for that. I'm going to offer a proposal here that's going to save me money. I can take that and put it in my bottom line as an employer and call it profit and tell my employees, we're going to sign you up for SCHIP. 
   I had a conversation with my son and daughter-in-law a couple of weeks ago. They blessed us with two little beautiful granddaughters, so they're a perfect model family of four. And I said here in Iowa, where this number right here, Mr. Speaker, if this bill had been overridden today that the President vetoed, in Iowa, a family of four would qualify for SCHIP funding at $77,437.50,  to be precise. Now, that's that family of four, that's my son and granddaughters and daughter-in-law. The calculus is pretty easy for them. They just say, well, we're self-employed, I guess we could do this. We could set our wages up to make sure that we don't break the cap on SCHIP and the kids would be funded then by the government, wouldn't they? And I said, I don't want to hear about that.     
   It was a bit of a levity kind of a conversation because they are going to take care of their responsibility and they have and they will continue to do that. But if that can be figured out in 5 seconds in the kitchen of my family, think how it can be figured out in every boardroom across America that will see an advantage here to push the kids, the children of their employees, off of their own privately funded health insurance, put them on the government-funded one, and put the profit, the savings, in their bottom line. You know that is going to happen. The people that will be the most believers of that have to be those on the other side of the line that don't believe in much for ethics and the free enterprise system that we have. 
   That is how that is going to work. You push people off health care and so you get to this, Mr. Speaker, and this is what this is really about, SCHIP. Some might think that is for the State Children's Health Insurance Program. But I will submit that the real motive behind this, we have Presidential debates going on and candidates all over this country concentrated in my State, New Hampshire, and others, and you can feel and sense they have been pushing health care 6, 7, 8 months to bring this debate to a head, and a delay in this Congress in coming to the negotiating table so we can actually extend this program in a responsible fashion is partly rooted in the Presidential politics and in the partisan politics in this Congress. I think the majority of it is rooted in that. So I will submit SCHIP really stands for Socialized Clinton Style Hillary Care for Illegals and Their Parents. And I hope the camera is on this so it doesn't get missed. SCHIP, Socialized Clinton Style Hillary Care for Illegals and Parents. 
   By the way, I did not get to that illegal component that was laid out by the gentleman from Florida. Well, one can point to language in the bill that says ``you don't get to send any of this money to people who are otherwise deportable.'' That language is in the bill. But, Mr. Speaker, I will inform you, this body, the people in this country, that there is additional language in the bill that weakens the citizenship standards that exist today, not just for SCHIP, but for Medicaid as well. We have citizenship requirements for Medicaid that you have to demonstrate, you have to prove your citizenship. And of those conditions that will be producing a birth certificate and another document, a photo ID perhaps or a passport or a list of other documents that demonstrate your lawful presence in the United States and your eligibility for SCHIP and for Medicaid; those are current law requirements. This bill that says in one paragraph ``this money can't go to illegals'' says in another paragraph ``but if you know how to write down a Social Security number, that will be all that is required.'' 
   The Social Security Administration has put out information that says you cannot verify citizenship by a Social Security number. There are millions of Social Security numbers that are not numbers for citizens. There are millions out there that are nonwork Social Security numbers, and there are millions out there that have been given to people that are here on work visas, student visas, visitors, you name it, for one reason or another, so they can get a driver's license or buy insurance, or maybe qualify for a benefit, millions of Social Security numbers that do not connote citizenship. And the only standard that is left, that is required in this current bill is you have to submit a Social Security number. And it is implied, it might even be specific, that it be a valid one. But we know how well that works when we have 20 million illegals in America and we have somewhere between 7 and 12 million working illegals in America, many, in fact most of them, using phony Social Security numbers. So if they can get a job and that number can report their wages every week and we can't figure out where they are, how in the world can anyone over hear say, ``well, none of this money is going to go to illegals'' when the Congressional Budget Office has made it clear and issued their report that the net cost to taxpayers because of the opening up of the citizenship standard is 6.5 billion, that is with a B, $6.5 billion, Mr. Speaker. 
   There isn't an argument on this that is seriously grounded in the facts. We take our facts from the Congressional Budget Office. 
   So I will roll this together. In my State, currently a family of four qualifies for hawk-i, SCHIP funding, for their health insurance. This isn't health care, remember; it is health insurance, at $51,625 a year. A family of four. That is off the Web page of Governor Culver, by the way. And if this bill had passed, it would have qualified that same family of four at $77,437 a year. But this Congress first passed 400 percent of poverty, which would have qualified that same family of four at 103,250 or so dollars in that legislation, over $100,000, and not a fiscally responsible peep out of the Speaker, out of the Democrat side of the aisle that I heard, out of my Governor. No one stood up for the taxpayer on that side of the aisle. That is because they are actively engaged in laying the cornerstone for socialized medicine. 
   I will continue, 2.0 million children, taken off of their own private insurance, nudged off, because the government will pay for it, why would you pay for it? If it is free or you have to write a check, which line are you going to get into? There will still be a lot of patriotic Americans who will get into the ``I will pay for my own line.'' God bless you for that. That is, by the way, 2.0 million children. That is a Congressional Budget Office number, the highest standard we have here; $6.5 billion for illegals to go on Medicaid and SCHIP? That is a Congressional Budget Office number. 
   You can't convince me that this isn't going to legalize access to health care services for illegals who, if we had the voucher delivered by ICE, the Immigration Custom Enforcement, would be compelled to pick them up and send them back to their own country. Think about that. If we made the couriers for vouchers for SCHIP to be ICE, they would have to come along and say, ``Well, okay, here's your voucher, but you're not going to be able to cash it in because I am sending you back home again because that is the law.'' 
   How bizarre is it to hear the rhetoric coming out of that side of the aisle? These are the facts, Mr. Speaker. It weakens the citizenship requirement. It is a net loss to my State of $226 million, more tobacco tax paid sent to Washington, we get $226 million less. Bad deal, Governor Culver. You ought to understand that. That is also a number that is put out by a government office, and that is the Centers for Disease Control produced a number of a minus $226 million just for Iowa. Other States did worse. Other States were net gainers. The tobacco tax, 156 percent increase, and then, Mr. Speaker, not forgetting about the 22.4 million new smokers that we will need to get this program funded. 
   So, all in all, Republicans have taken care of this. We created this program. State Children's Health Insurance Program is about providing help in health insurance premiums for the children in lower income families that don't qualify for Medicaid. It is about the transition off of Medicaid on to private, on to self-reliance, on to all the dignity that comes with carrying your own load, helping transition gradually and easily off on to that. It is about that. 
   It is about protecting and preserving our private health care system that is the best in the world. That is where we are on this side of the aisle, Mr. Speaker. That is where the President is on this. The other side of the aisle is about laying the cornerstone for socialized medicine, because once you get 95 percent of the people dependent on a program, they consider it an entitlement. Democrats know that. The Democrat leadership knows that at least. And that, I believe, Mr. Speaker, is the strategy. 
   I don't know how, when they come back with the next argument that was laid out by here by Bill Clinton that they wanted to lower Medicare eligibility to 55 years old, then you look at  this universe of people, people collecting SCHIP today at age 25, remember all those adults in places like Minnesota and Wisconsin, up to age 25, and if we lower Medicare eligibility to 55, now who is paying the bill for all the health insurance and health care in America? Well, it would be those folks between the ages of 25 and 55, Mr. Speaker. And don't you think that side of the aisle knows the resentment that will build when someone writes their own check for their health insurance premium and their check for the alternative minimum tax and their check for their income tax and they realize that they are paying for theirs and everybody else's. If they can't say no to this, then they are going to come back to us and say, ``Give us the Canadian plan. I give up. I capitulate. Because I just can't fund it both ways. You have made it too easy for too many people. Now it is too hard for me.'' 
   That will be the calculus among the American people. That will be what ultimately closes this and builds this socialized medicine that they are trying so desperately to build. And by the way, there is no provision to fund this thing past these years that I have shown here, Mr. Speaker. That cliff in the funding drops off. It drops down to a very small percentage of the overall revenue stream. The reason is they believe that they will have a President and a majority in the House and in the Senate that will have given us the full-ride socialized medicine. So they don't have to worry about funding this through this program. Watch as this unfolds. Bill Clinton stood back in this well September 22, 1993, and he gave about an hour speech, 12 pages long, that lays out the game plan. Now his wife is poised to carry out the balance of it. 
   I stand here in resistance to socialized medicine or laying the cornerstone for it, but I stand with my colleagues in protecting the kids in America, protecting their freedom, protecting an investment in them. I refuse, I refuse to put this burden as a national debt upon those same kids and ask them to pay it when they get to be the age of adults. 
   Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (NATIONAL SECURITY -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I appreciate the privilege to address you on the floor of the House on the House of Representatives. It is always a privilege. 
   And this time in our history reflects I think one of the most pivotal times that we've had. We are at war for one thing, and it is a pivotal moment within that war. And we are watching terrorists from overseas that have attacked the United States. And as we are watching our national security on that hand and as we are debating how we proceed to victory over al Qaeda and those terrorists on that end, at the same time our southern border is being flooded with just masses of illegal immigrants on a nightly basis. And to give, Mr. Speaker, some perspective on the scope of that problem, we have this testimony before the Immigration Subcommittee, of which I am the ranking member, and I sat intensively through hearings and engaged in questions and actually testified myself for the better part of 5 years at this point, Mr. Speaker.     
   Mr. Speaker, the testimony that we get from the Border Patrol, as far as the Border Patrol representatives for the profession and the Government, identifies that 2 years ago on the southern border, our Border Patrol and other immigration officers interdicted 1,155,000, I believe, illegal immigrants attempting to come across our border. Last year, it was 1,188,000. The number increases. 
   Now, one might argue that the effectiveness of our Border Patrol is reflected in the increase in the number of interdictions from about 1,155,000 to 1,188,000. But, Mr. Speaker, I would submit also that that could very well be a reflection of increased numbers coming across our border. It is not possible to identify whether the Border Patrol is more effective or whether they simply have a larger mass of people. 
   But in any case, when questioned before Committee in testimony before Congress as to what percentage of the illegal border crossers they were interdicting, the number fell between 25 percent and 33 percent. I believe the quote in the testimony was, ``We think we catch between a fourth and a third of those who attempt to cross.'' Now, that is not a very good record when you consider that there are 1,188,000 illegals, and that could potentially represent a third of those that tried or a fourth of those who tried. 
   So, I simply take that math and put that number at 25 percent, which is the lower part of the number, and then round it up to put it into a perspective in between the 25 and 33 percent. If you take that number and do the calculation, you come to about 4.6 million, let me see, about 4.6 million attempts. If you look at the interdiction numbers it amounts to and round it down, 4 million coming across our southern border on an annual basis, and that divides out to be about 11,000 a night coming across our southern border; 11,000, Mr. Speaker, every night on average. I say ``night,'' because during the day, the activity slows down. It doesn't stop. But at night it speeds up. 
   I have gone down and sat on the border in the dark, and without night vision goggles and without the aid that we have of our security personnel down there, but I just sat there and listened, sitting next to that cattle fence, that is not a very good cattle fence, about 5 barbed wires and steel posts that are stretched out to where the wires are separated in the middle so that the illegal traffic can simply bend down and step over through the fence. 
   I sat there and listened maybe 3 hours at a crack with a retired Border Patrol officer. I could see the shadows filtering through. I could hear the cars coming down on the Mexican side of the border. I could hear one of them dragging its muffler rattling as it drove down there. I could hear it stop by a big mesquite tree. I could hear the doors open. You hear people get out. You hear them drop their packs on the ground and the doors close kind of quietly, but the doors close. You can hear them pick things up in a hushed whisper and talk. Then they line up in single file, and they walk through the mesquite brush in the desert that 100 or 150 yards on down to our border and then file through the fence single file and go on up through the brush into the United States. 
   Some of them, I will concede, are coming here because they would like to find a job and they would like to find a better life. Some of them will send money back to their family. Some of them, that pack they drop on the ground and pick up again is the pack of illegal drugs that they will be carrying into the United States and delivering to a predetermined location, perhaps 25 miles up into the United States across the desert along the highway where a vehicle is scheduled to pull off on a turnoff and have those packs of illegal drugs tossed into the back of that truck. Maybe some of the illegals get in the truck and go on up into the United States. Some of them turn around, walk back across the desert that 20 or 25 miles and go down and get another load. 
   This goes on every single night on our southern border, Mr. Speaker, every single night. That isn't all the drugs that come across our border, but that is one of the methods that they use. If we put a vehicle barrier in place, in some places we have them, that amounts to a 5-by-5 steel tubing that is welded on our steel posts, and these are a 5-by-5 steel piling that are set in the ground, and a 5-by-5 steel tubing that is welded on there at about bumper height of a vehicle, that vehicle barrier will slow down and actually stop vehicles from driving across the border, but it doesn't stop individuals from walking right through there and carrying their packs of illegal drugs. 
   The number that is most commonly represented by the Drug Enforcement Agency is $65 billion worth of illegal drugs coming across our southern border on an annual basis. That $65 billion is, I believe, a street value. I don't know what it is worth at the border specifically. 
   In fact, they don't know either. They have got some representations of the breakdown of who gets what share of the profit as it flows through the illegal drug cartels. But $65 billion worth on the street is no small number. 
   That value in illegal drugs consumed by Americans destroys untold numbers of lives, an incalculable amount of human potential, and an innumerable number of children suffer because their father or mother or both are hooked on illegal drugs, methamphetamines, marijuana, heroin, cocaine, you name it, that comes across that border. Especially the methamphetamine that comes up into my part of the country, up the NAFTA Highway, as I heard some of my colleagues talking earlier, and the pain and the suffering and the death that has been dealt out by those illegal drugs, but pushed by $65 billion worth, the street value in the United States. 
   First, Mr. Speaker, I want to make the statement that we have a responsibility here in the United States to address the illegal drug consumption in this country. As long as we have the kind of demand that demands $65 billion worth of illegal drugs on the streets, in noses and in the veins and in the systems of our American drug abusers, illegal drug abusers, there is always going to be somebody that seeks to meet that demand. 
   Right now, the most efficient system that is set up, the most competitive system that is set up, the system that has the distribution wired in, is the illegal drug lords that control our southern border and the families that control their segments, the drug cartel families that control the segments of our southern border. 
   Mr. Speaker, we can't solve this problem by addressing the border  alone. We have to solve this problem by reducing and eliminating the demand here in the United States for illegal drugs. I am not going to spend a lot of time on this, but I want to go on record, Mr. Speaker, and let you and let the rest of the body know that there are three ways that we can address illegal drugs. 
   One of them is through interdiction. We currently do that. We try to stop all the drug pushers we can. We try to take all the drugs out of their hands we can. We try to take them off the street. We put them in prison. We put mandatory sentences on some of them, and some of them have faced those mandatory sentences. We are doing a lot of what we can do with interdiction. 
   The only other two places we can address the drugs is rehab, and we have invested some money in rehab and we have gotten some pretty good results from those who have hit bottom, from those, Mr. Speaker, who want to. But the rehabilitation isn't going to solve the problem with the demand. 
   So the third place is how do you reduce and eliminate the demand, and I will submit that the way to address this, if we want to dry up the demand of illegal drugs in the United States, we are going to have to provide random testing in the workplace and also in the educational field and also in the welfare rolls. 
   Now, we have a drug testing law in Iowa that I worked intensively to get passed and drafted a lot of the components and worked those pieces through. I spent 2 years doing not exclusively that, but focusing a lot of my time getting that legislation passed, Mr. Speaker. 
   What it provides for is preemployment testing, post-accident testing, reasonable suspicion testing and random testing. If you have those four categories of drug testing and you provide that for that in the workplace, in our educational institutions so our students are being tested, and in our welfare rolls, you will be able to, and we could as a society, if we determined we wanted to dramatically reduce the demand for illegal drugs, if we would put a drug testing system in place, we could dramatically reduce the demand. 
   By doing so in the workplace under those four methods that I said, preemployment, post-accident, reasonable suspicion and random testing, we can provide and essentially guarantee a drug-free workplace. 
   I first brought my focus on this when as in the contracting business I had a Federal contract. The Federal contract required me to sign a document that I would guarantee a drug-free workplace. Now, I take those contracts seriously. When I sign my name to something, I intend to follow through. That is my commitment and that has been my record. 
   But it disturbed me that Iowa law didn't allow me to truly guarantee a drug-free workplace. I could watch out for it, I could check for it as much as I could, I could educate my employees, but I couldn't legally test my employees. So I did what I could to meet a drug-free workplace. I think I provided a drug-free workplace, but I don't know that. But it set me down the path of working on the drug testing side of it. 
   We essentially don't have a conversation going on in America about how to eliminate drug abuse in America. That conversation doesn't exist in a meaningful fashion. We talk about all kinds of things, but $65 billion worth of illegal drugs representing 95 percent of the overall drug consumption in America coming across our southern border and the attendant violence that comes with that and the drug cartels that comes with that, the smuggling of drugs and people and human slaves that are put into the sex slavery business, and that violence and the crime that is naturally associated with illegal drugs, we are not addressing the demand. 
   We are not particularly concerned about the abuse of drugs in the workplace. And I believe we have got to raise that issue. I believe that we need to bring the focus of America's society on dramatically reducing the demand for illegal drugs in this society so that we can provide a lot better culture for our children to grow up in than perhaps we grew up in. That is not being addressed, Mr. Speaker, and I want to raise this issue. 
   But on the other side of this, the flip side of this issue is U.S. demand, $65 billion coming across our southern border representing 90 percent of the illegal drugs. The other side is on that side of the border, they are delivering that amount of drugs to us. 
   They are producing many of them in Mexico and Central America and the northern part of South America. Also there is heroin and other drugs coming in from China that flow into Mexico. And that distribution network is the magnet that draws those illegal drugs into Mexico. The marijuana that comes in, the methamphetamines that are manufactured there. The pseudoephedrines that come in from China to Mexico to be processed into methamphetamine, that spells a society that doesn't have the rule of law. 
   I will argue that we are deficient in our own rule of law here because we are not reducing the demand in the United States. But they are pouring across the southern border. And as much rhetoric as we have had about people that want to come here for a better life, we need to have a lot of rhetoric about what has happened to the lives of the people who have been sucked into this drug smuggling, who have been sucked into the drug consumption and become drug addicts? What about the lives of the American people who have been sacrificed on this alter of permissiveness that we don't have the will to shut down the abuse of illegal drugs in American and we don't have the will to shut down the flow of those illegal drugs across the border? 
   As I watch that and I look at the violence, and here two years ago, Mr. Speaker, actually it was more than 3 years ago, I commissioned a GAO study, a Government Accountability Study, and asking this question, and that is, we saw the testimony of how many people didn't make it across the desert to come into the United States illegally. That number has grown in the years that I have been in this Congress from perhaps a little more than 200, to now over 450, and perhaps as many as 500 people dying coming across the southern border. 
   That is a human tragedy. It is an agonizing human tragedy. The images of that easily come to mind to the American people, because we have seen a lot of news on it, we have seen film on it, we have seen pictures. 
   The other side of that tragedy is of those that make it across the border, those 11,000 a night that try, the 66 to 75 percent of those that make it, or more, and I will add that when I talk to the Border Patrol officers on the border and I ask them what percentage of effectiveness do you have, what percentage of them are you catching that are trying to come across the border, 25 percent, 33 percent? They laugh at me. They say, no, that number is more like 10 percent. 
   That is the most consistent number I get when I am speaking confidentially with the people that are boots on the ground, facing this enemy to our society, eye-to-eye, face-to-face. Perhaps 10 percent. I get numbers that go down as low as 3 percent. But it is the testimony here that is the highest that I hear, that perhaps a quarter to a third of those are interdicted.     
   But of those that come across the border and get across the border, and we are losing 450 or 500 trying to come into the United States that don't make it across the desert, how many Americans die at the hands of those who do make it across the border? Those involved in the crime, and there is plenty of it, do commit crimes against American citizens. 
   The measure of that crime falls into this category: 27 percent of the inmates in our Federal penitentiaries are criminal aliens. Some of them came into the United States legally and overstayed their visa. But most of them came into the United States illegally and committed crimes. That is 27 percent. 
   If you look at the State penitentiaries, the same Government Accountability Office report has in there that they are only funding 25 percent through SCAAP, the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, that funds our States, our counties, our local prisons, reimburses them for the trouble of having to incarcerate criminal aliens here in the United States because the United States isn't able to control our borders, and the burden of enforcing that crime falls upon the local governments and the cities, increasingly. But the Federal Government is to reimburse them for incarcerating the inmates.  
   In the GAO study, it shows that we are only reimbursing for 25 percent of the cost of the incarceration of criminal aliens in the local prisons, State and local. When you do the math, that 25 percent comes to about $22,000 a year by their numbers. That is a pretty typical number for the cost of incarcerating someone in a penitentiary. 
   So if they are paying 25 percent and it is costing $22,000 a year for those that we do pay for, it is not $88,000 a year, so the only other conclusion one can draw is, at least in our State penitentiaries, that at least 25 percent of the inmates are criminal aliens. 
   Now one comes to the conclusion that more than 25 percent of the inmates that are in our Federal and State penitentiaries are criminal aliens. They commit crimes against Americans. If they are committing crimes against Americans in the proportion that they are represented in our penitentiaries, that means more than 25 percent of the murders, more than 25 percent of the assaults, more than 25 percent of the rapes and more than 25 percent of the grand larceny, and the list goes on and on and on. 
   We have few in our Federal penitentiaries that are in there just because they violated immigration law. They may be there under that charge, but if they are and that is the charge that they are under, it is most likely that they simply could not make another charge stick and the prosecutors chose to use immigration charges rather than something else. 
   But just think, we are sitting here now with 16,400 murders a year in America. And if a fourth of those are attributable to criminal aliens, you are at 4,000 Americans a year. We crossed that sad threshold of those killed in action in Iraq, total, in addition to those killed in accidents in Iraq, over 3,000, a while back, Mr. Speaker. 
   But that number compared to the number of over 3,000 a year, in fact the almost 4,000 a year that die at the hands of criminal aliens here in the United States, and that is every single year. So, each year, we have had more Americans die at the hands of criminal aliens in this country than we have cumulative total of all of the soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines that have been killed in Iraq since the operations began in March of 2003. We have more Americans dying at the hands of criminal aliens on the streets and the roads and in the back alleys and homes of America each year than died on September 11, 2001. This total accumulates over and over again. 
   In addition to that number, there also is a slightly larger number of Americans who die at the hands of criminal aliens who have committed negligent homicide, generally in the form of drunk driving, although not always. If you add these numbers up, my numbers show 12 Americans a day murdered at the hands of criminal aliens, and 13 die every day at the hands of criminal aliens who have committed negligent homicide, generally victims of drunk drivers. And I am not counting the criminal aliens who have been killed because of their own drunk driving, Mr. Speaker. 
   So you add that number up, and it comes to 25 a day, 25 Americans a day. If the news media focused on that instead of some of their other priorities, I think we would have come to a conclusion on this illegal immigration issue that we are facing. But what is coming across that border and the violence that flows with it, and again, I will stipulate that most are good people. When they are our neighbors we like them. And when they go to work, we like them. And when they go to church, we like them. And when they raise their children and educate their children and when they assimilate into the American culture, we love everybody that comes to America to do that. We love those who come here legally. Those who come illegally subvert the rule of law. 
   But the violence that is part of the society that they come from is significant. I have to talk a little bit about the levels of violence here in the United States compared to the countries that many of our immigrants come from. 
   That is, our violent death rate here in the United States is 4.28 per 100,000. And the violent death rate in Mexico is 13.2 per 100,000. That is actually one of the safer countries in South and Central America. I was in Sao Paolo, Brazil, a little over a year ago. They told us to be careful where we go because in that city, they have over 10,000 murders a year. 
   I don't know the violent death rate in Brazil, but I do know what it is in Honduras. It is nine times that of the United States. In El Salvador, they don't publish the violent death rate, and one can only presume what it might be and why they don't. 
   But in Colombia, the violent death rate in Colombia is 15.4 times higher than the violent death rate here in the United States. 
   So it stands to reason that if you draw young men, some of whom are involved in the illegal drug trade, from a society that is far more violent than that of the United States, anywhere from 3 times to 15 times more violent, you are going to see more violent crimes. You are going to see more murders, assaults and rapes. There are going to be more victims in the United States and more deaths. One couldn't expect anything else. 
   That doesn't mean that we indict an entire country and all of their nationals because some of the citizens are violent. But that means we have more crime here because we are drawing a young men concentration from a more violent society, and a significant portion of those who are involved coming into the United States are those who are dealing in illegal drugs because the demand here for $65 billion worth of illegal drugs draws that in from those countries, and necessarily it has to come across our southern border. 
   Mr. Speaker, I hope I have laid the foundation for my passionate belief that we need to reinforce our southern border by building a double fence/wall on our southern border because I don't believe that a virtual fence is going to deter $65 billion worth of illegal drugs. 
   I have an understanding how powerful a magnet a $65 billion illegal drug market magnet is that draws those 
   drugs into the United States with that kind of powerful profit incentive. They are going to be pushing against our southern border. 
   When you go down there, and I sit there at night, and it is five barbed-wire strands, five strands of barbed wire, kind of a poor cattle fence, and they are going through one after another. And I can't quite count them all because it is pitch black, and I can only see the shadows, and I can hear the footsteps and the fence creak. And I can put my ear down to the post and listen to the fence stretch as they go through and kind of count. 
   That is just one place, one location, one night, Mr. Speaker. But 11,000 a night on average every night. The numbers of people pouring across and the illegal drugs that are a part of that, America's economy is paying a tremendous price. Our society is paying a tremendous price. The potential, the human potential of our young people is slowly being undermined and destroyed by the illegal drugs that are coming in. 
   But the force of those drugs cannot be eliminated simply because we want to put in a virtual fence. We want to argue that we are going to put in ground-based radar and we are going to fly the unmanned aerial vehicles over the top. We will put some cameras in place, but some of that doesn't work in bad weather. Sometimes you can't get down there in bad weather to enforce. 
   Each time I asked the Border Patrol, does it help to build a double fence/wall, their answer is generally, nothing you can do will reduce the need for the number of boots on the ground. That is an interesting response, Mr. Speaker. 
   How is it that if we build physical barriers on the border, follow through and complete the commitment of the congressional mandate that the President signed, the Secure Fence Act, and build 854 miles of a double fence and roads, and tie that together with the technology that is necessary to supplement those physical barriers, how is it, if we build those barriers, we need more boots on the grounds, not less? 
   I am going to say, good physical barriers reduce the numbers of Border Patrol that we need. I am suggesting that we reduce those numbers; I am suggesting that we can invest our money more efficiently on the southern border than we are. And the wisdom of a double fence and wall on that southern border, if analyzed economically, holds up, and it holds up this way. 
   We are spending $8 billion on the 2,000 mile southern border from San  Diego to Brownsville. That is $8 billion every year, and that money goes to pay Border Patrol, buy Humvees, depreciate the Humvees and support them, and pay for the retirement benefits, training and equipment and helicopters, fuel, gas for our Humvees, the whole network that is necessary to keep the Border Patrol up and running. That is where the $8 billion goes. That is $4 million per mile. 
   Now, me being a contractor who spent my life building things and pricing things and sometimes designing construction projects, I bring this down to unit price. I have to calculate things in unit price. 
   Mr. Speaker, what would I do? Say, for example, I live in the country in Iowa on a gravel road and the four corners come together right by my house. If I had a border on my west road that ran from my house, a mile west right down the middle of that gravel road, I don't care how far it went east or west, but if it was my job to contain that one mile, and if Michael Chertoff, the Secretary of Homeland Security came to me and said, Steve, we think you ought to control this border, would you bid that for us? It is costing us $4 million a mile and two-thirds or three-quarters of everybody who is trying to get across the border goes across and goes off into the United States. Can you give us a price to give us more efficiency, a lot more than a fourth to a third efficiency? Give us something close to 100 percent efficiency. 
   So if you are a stopping a fourth of the people at $4 million a mile, one would think, to get 100 percent of them, if we spent $16 million a mile, maybe just maybe that linear equation would work out. I don't think it will, but that is one way of thinking about it. 
   So I would look at it and say, Mr. Secretary, $4 million a mile, how about giving me a 10-year contract, and I can control the illegal traffic on this border. 
   Now I have $40 million to work with; $4 million for that mile, 1 year, times 10 years, a 10-year contract, $40 million. I would look at that and think, I am going to hire myself a bunch of Border Patrol and buy myself a bunch of Humvees, and I am going to drive them up and down that road and hope that they come across the people coming across the border at night. I wouldn't do that. 
   I would have some people to guard the borders, yes; some people to be quick reaction responders, I certainly would. But I would look at that and say, if I make an early capital investment, if I built a wall on that border and a fence inside there a hundred feet, maybe another chain link fence inside that, I would set up some cameras and sensors, and it would be monitor-able from inside an air-conditioned office. Then I would have some Border Patrol to deploy if I needed them. 
   But for $1.3 million, I could build this wall that I am about to build. And for the balance of another million dollars a mile, I could put in another fence and we could have a solid wall, double fencing, and we could have probably an access road to run along there, and we could shut off more than 90 percent of the illegal traffic, more than 95 percent of the illegal traffic. In fact, I believe that we could tighten that down so tight there wouldn't be anybody coming across. 
   I say that because, not only does it make sense, I have seen the effectiveness of it. I went to Israel, and I took a look at the fence they have constructed in Israel. They were being bombed on a regular basis by suicide bombers from the West Bank.     
   They'd blow themselves up and blow up some women and children and men, too, didn't matter to them so long as they could take somebody with them. And so for the Israelis to protect themselves from those kind of attacks, they put a fence in place. And some places it's doubled; some places it's a little more than that. There are some watch towers and guard towers. They have some wire on top. They have sensors. Some of the sensors that they have are classified so they don't let the enemy understand how to defeat it. 
   But the fence structure that they put in place in Israel has been nearly 100 percent effective, and so I hear people here in this Congress will say, why do you want to build a fence and how tall do you want it to be? And I say, well, I'd put mine up 12 feet tall here, and then I'd put a wire mesh fence inside that's taller yet. Oh, 12 feet tall; if you do that, somebody's just going to build a 12-foot ladder and they'll climb over the top. 
   That is what you call a red herring, Mr. Speaker, and in fact, there have been very, very rare anyone could defeat the fence in Israel, and however tall you make the fence, yes, you can make a longer ladder. But there's always another way to defeat the people who think that's the easy way. It's one of the reasons to make it double because we can interdict them in between. And the sensors pick up the efforts, but if you don't slow them down, they charge across the border and scatter out across the desert. You can chase some of them down, but you cannot chase them all down, Mr. Speaker. And so fences and walls are effective. They have been proven to be effective, and they're cost-effective as well. 
   So let me just submit that that $40 million contract for that 1 mile for 10 years, the $4 million a year, for less than $3 million I can put in a concrete wall and a wire fence and I can put in sensors. And then I'd sit back and monitor that mile from my office with little warning devices on it and I'd have somebody on 24 hours a day. I'd have people on call and maybe somebody patrolling it in intermittent cycles, but we'd shut that mile down, and we could shut that mile down for an early capital investment of less than $3 million. And you'd only have $37 million left over for the balance of the 10 years to pay yourself a minimum number of border patrol and somebody to monitor the sensor devices that you have. 
   We can put this together, but what we're doing is burning up a tremendous amount of taxpayer dollars at $8 billion a year to get a fourth to a third efficiency when we can get 95, 96, 98 percent efficiency by investing in a structure instead. 
   Now, if we do that, we put a barrier in place that's very, very difficult to defeat, not impossible but difficult, and so the drug smugglers that are trying to get here, they are going to decide they don't want to try to go through there. They're likely to try by air again or by sea or some other method. In any case, we'll dramatically reduce the amount of illegal drugs on the streets of America, at least for a time, until they find another way to defeat us. 
   We have our choice. We can either work to defeat the illegal drug smugglers and try to keep those drugs off the street or we can capitulate. I'm not willing to capitulate, and I'm not hearing anybody in this Congress stand up and say that they want to legalize the illegal drugs. 
   And so I think we need to fight them, and I think this is the place to draw the line. This is the battle line, and it's on our southern border. I've talked to the Mexican senators about it. I believe they understand, and they're doing some things on their side to help out. 
   That's one of the battles that we have. We have a number of other battles, Mr. Speaker, and so it takes us, though, to this idea that legalize illegal drugs and then you don't have an illegal drug problem. That makes sense, doesn't it? But I'm not willing to go there, and we aren't in this Congress either. But the President and the open borders lobby have taken the stand that they think that we can't control our border, our southern border in particular, unless we legalize the 12 to 20 million people who come in here illegally. 
   Now, I continually ask the question of the representatives from the administration as they march forward before the Immigration Subcommittee, explain this to me, how is it that you can't enforce the law until we give amnesty to 12 to 20 million? How is it that if we do grant this amnesty or grant a legal status to 12 to 20 million people, how is America safer? If you want to bring people out of the shadows, and never mind they came here to live in the shadows, that's a function of sneaking into the United States and getting jobs illegally. When they were in hiding, that's living in the shadows. When you try to bring them out of the shadows, why would they come out? What kind of people would come out of the shadows? It would be those that are guaranteed amnesty. Those undesirables are not going to come out  of the shadows, Mr. Speaker. They're going to stay back there and they're going to run their drug trade and they're going to push their wives and their kids to go to work, and they're going to sit back and work in the black market. They're not going to come forward. We will not get people to come forward that are afraid that they will not be granted some kind of amnesty. 
   But the President's idea on this and the open border lobby's idea on this is somehow, if we grant amnesty to the 12 to 20 million people, then we can focus our law enforcement resources on the bad apples, a huge human haystack of humanity, 4 million strong pouring across our southern border every year. And in that haystack of humanity are the needles called terrorists and criminals, drug dealers, undesirable elements, people that no society wants in them. And if we legalize that huge human haystack of humanity, somehow it makes it easier to find the needles that are in it. 
   But I'll submit, Mr. Speaker, that those needles are not going to come out into the open unless they can be guaranteed some legal path, and those who will be legalized, and I reject that concept of destroying the rule of law and legalizing people that have broken our laws, but those who would be legalized would then get themselves a card where they could travel back and forth across the border at will. 
   Now, I would ask, does the administration and the open borders lobby expect to see more or less border crossings if you legalize people that are here illegally? Are they going to go back and forth more? Are they going to go back and forth less? I'll submit they'll go back and forth more because they have their illegal passage that they do now; they will still have that option. Of course, they will have the option of the card that says now you can go back and forth at will. 
   So we'll have more crossings across the border rather than less. When you have more crossings across the border, there are more opportunities to bring contraband across the border, more opportunities for terrorists to smuggle through, more opportunities for criminals to take advantage of the situation. 
   And so I can't believe that there's a rationale in this argument that if you legalize 12 to 20 million people, if you legalize them, somehow America is safer. They're not any different people than they were before. They're the same people. They're just travelling back and forth more than they were. They're still hiding the drug smugglers within them. The crime will still take place, and the rationale that you won't have as much illegal smuggling going on or we can solve a big portion of the illegal problem, the rationale is the same rationale that says legalize illegal drugs, then you don't have an illegal drug problem. Legalize illegal aliens, then you don't have an illegal alien problem. 
   That's as far as the rationale goes, but it surely does not solve the law enforcement problem, and no one in the administration can explain that to me, at least to the point where I could understand it, and I honestly tried, Mr. Speaker. 
   So the rule of law is at stake. To grant amnesty is to grant a pardon to immigration law-breakers and reward them with the objective of their crime. That's the fairest, most balanced definition of amnesty. It's one that holds up against the criticism. 
   The rule of law is the most essential element of American exceptionalism. If we didn't have the rule of law in America who would come here? They're leaving the other countries because they don't have the rule of law and they don't have the right to property and they can't be treated equally under the law and are not equal under the eyes of the law. 
   But the rule of law says that everyone, every man and every woman, is equal under the eyes of the law, and that if you're going to be held accountable for a crime, you're innocent until proven guilty; and justice for a poor man is the same as justice for a rich man. That's the rule of law. And that's one of the essential pillars and the most essential pillar of American exceptionalism. 
   But I don't know how many of those who are beneficiaries of the 1986 amnesty plan I've talked to who say I'm for this amnesty, you need to grant a path to citizenship for people who came here illegally, and I ask them why, and they say, well, it was good for me; it was good for me, it was good for my family. 
   But just that fact alone is surely not justification enough to tear the rule of law asunder and throw it over the side, Mr. Speaker. This rule of law is a precious commodity, a precious pillar of American exceptionalism, and if it's destroyed, we will never reach a glorious destiny in this country. 
   It's essential that we preserve the rule of law, and if we grant amnesty to 12 to 20 million or more, that will attract another 12 to 20 million, but regardless, the family, the friends, the progeny of the recipients of 
   amnesty will be strong advocates for amnesty in coming years. If they get a path to citizenship, they will run for office. They will advocate for it. They will support candidates who advocate for amnesty, and they will continue to destroy this rule of law. America will never be the Nation that we have been again and never become the Nation that we can become because we will have almost knowingly and willfully sacrificed the rule of law on the alter of open borders because some businesses want cheap labor and they see an advantage in that. And some people want cheap labor and cheap votes, cheap votes on the left side, cheap labor more on the right than on the left but it's on both sides, and you put that coalition together, and the squeeze that comes on American society and culture is the squeeze on the middle class. That's another pillar of American exceptionalism is the middle class. 
   We have been building this Nation on an ever broadening and an ever more prosperous middle class. An opportunity if you're an uneducated person with some ambition, maybe you get out of high school and you decide I don't want to go to college, it's not for me, but I want to go punch a clock and work my way up at the factory or at the meat plant or whatever it is, I want to make a good enough living that if I don't even move up the ladder, if I don't ever do that, I can still buy a modest home and I can still raise my family and send my kids off to school with expectation of a better life. That's been a foundation of the American dream, an ever broadening and ever more prosperous middle class. 
   Today, cheap labor has destroyed the opportunities for the undereducated, the high school graduate or the high school dropout that's an American citizen. They can no longer go punch a clock and feed their family and pay for a modest home because wages have been driven down so cheap. The people that are at the top of the scale believe that they will never have to compete and neither will their children ever have to compete with the cheap labor that's been poured into this country. They will live in gated communities, and they will send their children off to Ivy League schools and they believe they'll always have that foundation and that capital base to make their gated communities, and the guarded society will be the destiny for all of their progeny. 
   But the middle class can't hope for that. The middle class has been diminished in its numbers, and it is a percentage of society, and the relative prosperity has been diminished significantly. And the unemployment among the underskilled Americans has grown in direct proportion to the amount of unskilled labor that's coming here illegally to take on the jobs. 
   Mr. Speaker, I'm for the rule of law. I'm for the middle class in America. I'm for opportunity for everyone, no matter what their education level is. We simply have to have a policy here in the United States that favors Americans. And the rationale that says that we are going to be a Nation that is somehow or another the relief valve for all the poverty in the world needs to take into account that there's a limit to the number of people that can live in the United States. 
   And those who advocate for open borders, I ask the question, how many are too many? Where would you draw the line? They will never engage in that debate because they know they lose the minute they try to put a number down. They will say that it should be on supply and demand, this economy. And so if there's a demand for more labor, we ought to bring in more labor. 
   If we're going to be the relief valve for poverty in the world, Mr. Speaker,  there are at least 4.6 billion people on the planet with a lower standard of living than the citizens in Mexico, at least 4.6 billion. Are we going to open our gates up at our ports of entry and bring the people in, any willing traveler, might be the way the President would phrase it? And the answer to that should be no. 
   We can have compassion in a lot of ways, and one of them is to promote the American way of life around the globe. Be proud of who we are, be proud of our culture, be proud of our civilization, be proud of our history, be proud of the sacrifice of our Fore Fathers, be proud of the sacrifice of our current generation that's so proudly defended us around the world in the last 5 years. 
   But we needed to preserve our destiny. We need to reject amnesty, Mr. Speaker, and so I think that it's essential that we build the wall and we hold together the rule of law and we preserve the middle class and remember who we're about and what we are as a people. 
   By popular demand, I have occasionally demonstrated the construction of a wall so the people can understand, Mr. Speaker, how it can be done. I sat down and created a design for a concrete wall because I believe that it's harder to breach a concrete wall than it is a steel fence, and I think it's cost-effective.     
   But I want to describe what I have designed here. 
   Whenever we build for a fence or a wall, we need to have a foundation underneath it. There will be people that will try to dig underneath it, so I designed a slip-form concrete form. 
   This would go in a trench. You would set a trencher in here with a specially made grading machine that would trim this out and pour this concrete footing with a notch in it, trench and pour the footing as you go, so the hole didn't have a chance to cave in. As we poured this we would just drive the machine along and it would be trenching and pouring concrete, so there would be a cured foundation for the wall that would be completed as the trench and slip-form machine moved on. 
   This is what it looks like from the end. This would be what it looks like from the top, the notch in the top, and that groove there, it will be obvious where I put that. So as that trench is moved along, and the foundation of this wall sets like this, then I would bring in precast concrete panels. These panels would be about 13 1/2 feet tall, and they could be about any width, but proportionately it looks like 6 to 8 feet. We could go wider, we could go 10 feet. 
   Perhaps once this was cured, even the next day, come along with truckloads of precast concrete panels. They would sit on the truck like this, pick those up with a crane, swing them into place, set them down right into the notch of the foundation. Just this simple. 
   It would take a little bit longer, but not appreciably longer to throw this all together in this fashion. It would be constructed 12-foot high precast panel, slip-form concrete wall. It would look a lot like that. I would set that down within about 3 feet inside the border. I put some wire on top here, stabilize this thing and provide it as a deterrent. 
   With concrete, you can mount anything on top for sensors. You can do cameras, vibration, motion detectors, you could mount any kind of new technology on top of this concrete. It wouldn't be possible to take a cutting torch through here. If you brought a concrete saw in to cut a notch through it, the noise and the vibration would be transferred down the wall, and our sensor devices would likely pick it up, or we could deploy some Border Patrol to that location. 
   But as you could see, I would go inside also another 100 feet, and I would put a mesh fence up, even taller than this, so that there will be essentially a no man's land in between the wall and the fence. 
   There are a lot of designs that would work. This is only one design, but I designed this and put the structure of this together, and I can put the estimate together too. This can be installed for about $1.3 million a mile. 
   Now, somebody was complaining about the cost of this. What is it, gold plated? Well, you can build a four-lane Interstate for about $4 million a mile, but that's what we are paying the Border Patrol to watch the border right now. 
   Now, I appreciate the work that they do, and I respect the work that they do, and I support them. They need better tools to work with. This is one of them that can be helpful. This is one of the components, or a version of fence and wall is one of the components to the Secure Fence Act. 
   This Congress has mandated that that fence be built, and we appropriated money to it last week to the tune of $1 billion. The year before, we appropriated $1,187,565,000 just to round it out to even dollars. We appropriated about $2.2 billion to building the Secure Fence Act, and that includes money for technology, for virtual fence, as well as real fence. 
   We need to stop the flood at our southern border. We need to dramatically slow the flow of illegal drugs across that border. It will reduce the amount of crime perpetrated and committed against Americans. It will save lives. It will save at least hundreds of lives. It will probably save thousands of lives. 
   It will be cost effective, and it will send a message that America is a sovereign Nation that will protect its borders, and that we will direct traffic, human traffic and contraband, through the ports of entry. We will need to beef up our ports of entry. We need to have more Customs and Border Patrol people there, and more sophisticated devices there. 
   But if we can't stop the bleeding at our border, there is no amount of enforcement that we can do in the interior that will be effective. The best description I have heard is the description by Dr. Phil Gingrey, a Congressman from Georgia, who has worked the emergency room. His description is if you have a patient come in the emergency room when they are bleeding all over the place, and they are bleeding from multiple wounds, and they are bleeding all over the floor, the first thing you don't do is grab the mop and the bucket and start to clean it up. You stop the bleeding. That's what you do. 
   We have a tremendous amount of bleeding on our southern border. We have got to stop the bleeding, stabilize the patient, and then we can have a debate on how to clean up the mess. It is a tremendous mess here in the United States, because the Federal Government hasn't enforced the immigration laws to the level it needs to, and that has been an open permission slip that has been granted now to a number of the employers who have taken advantage of it. They have hired the cheap labor. 
   The third thing is birthright citizenship, automatic citizenship that is a magnet for 350,000 pregnant mothers every year who come here to have their children in the United States. It's not a constitutional right, it's a practice to grant them citizenship here because they are born in the United States. Those things work against our sovereignty. Those things work against the middle class, those things would be against the rule of law. 
   I am going to continue to advocate that we construct this double fence of wall on the southern border, that we complete it and we follow through on the congressional mandate, and we insist that the administration follow through. We need to do border enforcement first, employer enforcement second. When we get those things done, we will have stopped the bleeding and shut off birthright citizenship as the other bleed. Then we could have a debate in this Congress about how to clean up the mess, and it is one, one tremendous mess. 
   That's my advocacy, that's my policy, that's where I stand. 
   I appreciate the privilege to address you tonight. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICE NEGOTIATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - January 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I oppose this legislation, because I believe it will make seniors pay higher prices for their drugs and will restrict their access to the drugs they need. 
   Earlier this week, I met with Dr. Mark McClellan, the former administrator for CMS. Dr. McClellan pointed out to me, while no program is perfect, Part D has proven to be very successful. Premiums seniors pay for the basic drug benefit have fallen over 40 percent from the expected premiums. CMS reports that, on average, beneficiaries are saving nearly $1,100 a year on their drug costs, with many seniors and their doctors having more drugs to choose from under Part D than they did before. Also, Part D cost nearly $13 billion less than expected in 2006, and 10-year costs have been lowered by approximately $180 billion. 
   In order to make drugs cheaper, the Secretary will have to refuse coverage for a number of drugs that are regularly prescribed to seniors. When Medicare's list of covered drugs is shortened, either doctors will be forced to choose cheap drugs which could hurt the welfare of their patients, or seniors will be forced to pay out-of-pocket for many of the important, life-saving medications they need. 
   I urge a ``no'' vote on this harmful legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I would start out with the title of this, the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act. Positively Orwellian to name a resolution the Redeployment From Iraq Act. I have gone back and revisited George Orwell, and I can tell you this says, the Cut and Run From Iraq Act. And however you want to cut it, that's part of it. 
   Then it says, be moved in a safe and orderly manner. And I'd like to know from the other side, was the helicopter lifting people off of the U.S. Embassy in Saigon, was that safe and orderly? Would that comply with your definition? 
   Another point, we have in this Congress constitutional responsibilities and authorities with regard to war. The first thing we can do in this Congress is declare war. The second thing we can do is to raise an army and a navy, and the third thing is to fund it, not to micromanage it. This is another piece of micromanagement. This is another piece of moving us down the path towards what history will record as a defeat on the floor of Congress, not a defeat in the field of battle. 
   Von Clausewitz said the object of war is to destroy the enemy's will and ability to conduct war. And we understand that if you don't have the will, it doesn't matter what your ability is. We're the only unchallenged super power in the world, and you're breaking down the will of the American people. 
   Sun Tzu said it more simply. ``Supreme excellence in warfare lies in destruction of your enemy's will to resist an advance of perceptible hostilities.'' And yet the American people's will has been systematically undermined by the debate here on this floor, by the debate in the national news media. And I question, in the face of the opposition that we have to our will here in this country, if we ever can manage the effort to rise up and defend freedom with this kind of support that we lack. 
   And then, when Mr. Price of Georgia lays out that the Defeatocrats in Congress are invested in defeat, the former gentleman from California rose up and squealed. And being the leading number one pork-producing district in America, I can tell you, when you throw a rock into the pigpen, the ones that squeal are the ones you hit. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (SOLUTIONS TO TRADE PROBLEMS -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I have had the privilege to be seated here in this Chamber and listen to the presentation over the last probably hour and a half or so. It is quite interesting as I listened to the presentation made by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle and the concern about the imbalance in trade, which I am concerned about, and the argument that we need not necessarily free trade, but fair trade. 
   As I carefully listened to the 60-minute presentation, I hear some things that are wrong, and I agree with some of them, as a matter of fact, most of them, but I heard no suggestions on how we are going to fix this, except ask the administration to do it better and get it right. 
   I think it is important for us, Mr. Speaker, if we are going to identify these issues that we are going to call problems that we should also step forward and have the will and the foresight to present some solutions. 
   So in the time I have had here to listen now, I will just present some solutions that I would have liked to have heard from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, because I think we ought to be here to fix the problems we have. 
   First, I don't have quite the same number of trade deficit that the gentlelady from Ohio presented in the poster here just a little bit ago. I recall that 2 years ago, actually now 3 years ago, our trade deficit was a minus $617.7 billion. Last year it was a minus $725 billion. Her number was slightly higher than that. We should by now have the records for the 2006 trade deficit. I have not had access to that number, and I note the gentlelady from Ohio didn't present a number for the 2006 trade deficit, but it had been increasing about 20 percent a year for several years. 
   I heard no evidence that convinces me that NAFTA is the only reason. In fact, I will submit that there are a number of other reasons that we have a trade deficit. I would challenge my colleagues, join with me in some of these solutions that I will present here. 
   But before I do so, I am just going to go back and review some of the remarks that were made and then respond to them with solutions rather than lamentations, Mr. Speaker. 
   The gentleman from Wisconsin called for fair trade. He showed a poster that has a minus $233 billion trade deficit with China. I don't dispute that number. I expect that is as very close, if not as accurate, a number as there is out there. But that is a portion of and not even a majority of our trade deficit that we have from a global imbalance. 
   Then the gentleman from Illinois made the statement ``We need fair trade.'' Fair trade in fact was called for by I believe every one of the speakers, and at least no one disagreed with that. 
   Well, Mr. Speaker, I refuse to allow my staff to use the word ``fair.'' In fact, I refused to let my children use the word ``fair'' as they were growing up, because I know something that most Americans know, and that is anyone who has raised two or more children knows there is no such thing as fair.  
   If you are going to use ``fair'' and be able to define the word ``fair,'' you have to be talking about a county fair or a State fair or some other type of gathering where people display their wares, because the term ``fair'' is not definable; it isn't universally understood. So one person's idea of fair is another person's idea of a injustice, and it will be ever thus. 
   We can talk about justice and equity, and we can talk about using the equal enforcement of trade agreements and laws, and I think we should do that; but to even try to define what we would like to do with a term like ``fair,'' we have chosen the vaguest term that there is in the dictionary and the one that submits itself to anyone's redefinition of it. 
   Also the statement was made that we have no options, we have to vote these fast track trade agreements up or down. That is not true. Yes, they come to the floor as unamendable, but a couple of years ago, maybe 3 years ago, I amended two unamendable trade agreement, and I did so in committee.     
   These were trade agreements that had to do with Singapore and Chile. Ambassador Zoellick had negotiated immigration agreements into those trade agreements. And so with the wisdom and tenaciousness of the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Sensenbrenner), we brought those trade agreements before the Judiciary Committee, and although they were unamendable trade agreements, up-or-down, to be voted on, we had a mock markup in committee. And in that mock markup, I was successful in getting two mock amendments put on the mock bill. And when we finished with our analysis of the trade agreements that had been negotiated by the U.S. Trade Representative and had perfected the trade agreements in the process of going through the mock markup, the U.S. Trade Representative then, even though it was supposedly impossible to go back and reopen those negotiations, reopened those negotiations and adapted those two amendments into the trade agreement, and we struck out the immigration language out of the trade agreement. It had no business. It had no place there, and that is one way you can effect a change if you disagree with the trade agreements. 
   But it sounds to me like the people that are speaking here are against all trade agreements no matter what they might be. They will always be able to oppose any agreement no matter how it is defined because they will always reserve the right to redefine their own term called fair. It will be, it isn't fair. We can't do it because it is not fair. Well, you have to be more specific than that. 
   As I listened to my colleague from Iowa talk about the Maytag issue at Newton, and that has left a big hole in the central part of Iowa, and I look back on the 34 1/2 years of my marriage, and there has never been anything but a Maytag washer and dryer in my home washing clothes for our family. That is deep in our heritage, and we are loyal to the brand. 
   But part of the equation also was that, when it came time to resolve the labor disagreements and to settle the salary and benefit and pension plans, the burden of that was just too high to be able to hold the jobs in Iowa. It is too bad, but those were some of the circumstances that no one over here uttered, when you get collective bargaining and it drives the package up so high; when you overplay your hand, you lose the company. You don't have the option to back down, and the union doesn't come forward and say, I will be happy to take a $2 or $5 pay cut, or maybe we will negotiate the health care plan or do a package that has to do with our contribution versus our benefits, defined contributions versus defined benefits plan, that stuff is hard to get when you have a lucrative labor agreement, collectively bargained agreement, those types of agreements could not be resolved favorably to Maytag. That is one of the reasons why we no longer have Maytag centered up in Newton, Iowa. I think we need to talk about that. 
   Yes, these jobs are going overseas. But, also, Maytag made an investment overseas to go over there and make washing machines to sell to the Chinese. They invested initially $70 million in that plant. And, finally, after some years of trying, they couldn't make it work and pulled out of that investment. 
   There are many, many different components to these transactions. It isn't just simply American corporations, that they are simply greedy capitalists and that they quickly move our industries overseas. They are reluctant to go. But we set up the burden of taxation and regulation. And then you have the compensation packages of the collective bargaining agreements; and that being the environment here in the United States, having then to compete against the cheaper labor overseas. All of those things work against us, not just the corporations deciding to make a decision that is simply based on greed. That is not so, Mr. Speaker. 
   Also, the argument, the gentlelady from Iowa said our trade deficits soar, we need a new trade model. I heard no proposal of what that new trade model is. It is criticism, but it is not a solution. We need to provide solutions. 
   The other gentlewoman from Iowa talked about Hershey is moving out and going to Mexico. I am saddened to see that go. But some of my colleagues who have been here a number of years have had an opportunity to put a fix in place so we could sustain, could have sustained some of these businesses that we are losing, and we could still sustain many of these businesses today if we could get to work and roll up our sleeves and do the right thing for real tax reform. 
   That would be to simply bring forward H.R. 25, the FAIR Tax. And that eliminates the IRS and the Income Tax Code, so it eliminates personal and corporate income tax. It eliminates the tax on your interest income, your dividend income and your capital gains. And it eliminates the AMT. It takes the tax off your savings and investment, and your pension and Social Security. It does all of those things. 
   One of the things I would think my colleagues would want to do if they are concerned about the trade deficit, I would think that they would want to border adjust the taxes so we weren't operating here in the United States at a disadvantage, having to put taxes on the cost of our goods and be competing against imported goods from overseas that do not have that tax component in there. That is part of what they are talking about, is unfair trade, subsidized goods was the term used by the gentleman from Pennsylvania, the onslaught of foreign subsidized goods. 
   Well, they may be subsidized goods, and I am sure there is a definition that can be applied to that, but we do the opposite. We put the tax burden on everything that we manufacture in this country, on materials and labor, and it has to be built in and embedded in the cost of the things that we sell, because corporations, companies that are in business to sell a good or a service or any combination of the two, do not pay income tax. They can't pay income tax. They collect it from people. The end user, the last stop on the retail chain, are the ones that pay the taxes, but it is collected through the companies that sell the goods and the services, and then they transfer it to the IRS in the form of corporate income tax, business income tax and sometimes the personal income tax of the executives and the shareholders as well. 
   Corporations and businesses don't pay taxes; they collect it from real people. The consumer is the last stop on the retail dollar. Once we can get our minds around that absolute truth, then we can begin to talk about how we can work together to border adjust our taxes and become a more competitive Nation again. 
   The studies that we have had done indicate that the components boil down to this: On average, 22 percent of a product that is on the shelf for sale here in the United States, 22 percent is the embedded cost of the tax structure that the company that is producing that product has to build into the price. So that says, if you are selling a widget and that widget is a dollar, 78 cents is the cost of the widget and 22 cents is the cost of the tax. 
   If you put that on some more expensive items, go from the $1 widget to the $30,000 vehicle, and we have millions of dollars worth of vehicles coming into the United States every year. Some of our trade deficit, I can tell you, would be $800 million worth of Mazdas that  come over from Japan every year, made in Japan, put on ships, brought here, off-loaded into the United States and marketed on our dealers' lots, $800 million. As that price goes up, and that is a couple-of-year-old number, we could be into a billion dollars, and that would be one-700th of our entire trade deficit because we are buying Mazdas but we are not exporting Chevys or Fords back to Japan. If we sent a billion dollars worth of Chevys or Fords to Japan instead of them sending a billion dollars of Mazdas to us, then we pick up a two-for, and we reduce that trade deficit by $2 billion, not $1 billion. 
   But if you put a Chevy and a Mazda on a dealer's lot and each has a sticker price of $30,000 and they are comparable vehicles, comparable quality and accessories that are built into that price so the competition will establish that price and they are selling against each other at $30,000; if we pass H.R. 25, the FAIR Tax and we cease taxing all productivity in America and we put the tax on sales instead of income, a national sales tax, that $30,000 Chevy, the price of it goes down. 
   If you take the tax component out, you take 22 percent out of that $30,000 Chevy, and it takes us into that area of $23,400. The Mazda stays at $30,000. 
   When we put our tax back in, we have to build it back in, the sales tax on the price, now the Mazda goes up by 23 percent, and it ends up as a $39,000 Mazda. That is the amount you would write the check for to drive it off the lot. But you would write the check for the Chevy or the Ford at $30,400. That is an $8,600 marketing advantage that we would gain simply by getting rid of the IRS and the Income Tax Code and put our tax back on sales and allowing these companies and competition to drive the embedded tax component out of everything that we are producing here in America. 
   That gives us a 28 percent marketing advantage here in the United States. So when foreign companies are competing against American manufacturers, they would have to look at that huge 28 percent advantage that we would have. I can tell you, there would be a lot more products produced in the United States. 
   I will take you back to the $800 million worth of Mazdas coming over from Japan by ship every year. Those cars are made in Japan. A lot of the components are put together in Japan, and wherever you make something, that is where the labor and jobs are. When we are purchasing from a foreign country, we are transporting and exporting our job market there. 
   Now, that is true for everything that we are purchasing that is a good from a foreign country. Those jobs, whenever we send money overseas and purchase a good from a foreign country, we are also transferring jobs there. 
   We pass the FAIR Tax, those jobs come back home, many of them, and we hold most jobs here. We end up with a 28 percent marketing advantage, and it does a number of other things. That is, it doubles our economy in 10 to 15 years. It fixes our balance of trade, that minus-$725 billion, probably a larger number now, because we can compete not only here better, and we will be pulling jobs back here and creating more jobs here in the United States, but also our export markets. Many times the export markets turn on a 1 or 2 percent margin. 
   We pick up instantaneously a 28 percent advantage from where we are right now if we can take the tax component out of the products that we are selling. So we do a number of good things. We hold our manufacturing base here. We hold our jobs here, especially our blue collar jobs, the jobs like Hershey and Maytag, that are leaving America. These are manufacturing jobs after manufacturing jobs. Those kinds of jobs stay here. We create more jobs here. These are American-made products, and the dollars will stay here. As those dollars stay here, they turn over seven times in a community, as the economists tell us they do. They create more and more and more jobs. Pretty soon we would have that trade deficit gone. We would end up with a trade surplus. We would end up with a healthy, robust industrial base in America and a strong economy that would be doubled in 10-15 years. 
   If we do that, the rest of the world would have to stand up and take notice. We are already the most dynamic economy the world has ever seen. But we have a problem, a series of them. But, Mr. Speaker, the problem I am speaking of is the problem of going back and indexing Alexander Tyler's statement, that when a democracy realizes it can vote itself benefits from the public treasury, on that day the democracy ceases to exist. 
   We are at least 44 percent of Americans not paying income tax. If we go to a national sales tax, a FAIR Tax, that does a number of things, but it untaxes the poor, and I will get to that in a moment. But it also makes taxpayers out of every consumer in America. And we are all consumers. 
   Each time we step up, and I think of little Johnny stepping up to the counter, and he is going to buy his baseball cards, and he is going to put a couple of dimes up there for Uncle Sam. Those children from little on up will understand that the Federal Government is expensive, and they will know that they are funding the Federal Government, and they will be buying into the Federal Government. And they will also be advocating for let me have a few less services and let me keep a few more of my dimes. That penetrates into young people. 
   I remember a story told by a candidate for Congress in last summer's primary election. He had a little son; I believe his name was Michael. Little Michael had saved up his money. Little Michael, he picked up his box of Skittles, and he had counted out 89 cents for the box of Skittles.     
   So he put his money up on the counter with the box of Skittles, carefully counted out 89 cents, and the lady at the check-out register rang it up and said that will be 96 cents. He did not have anymore money. He got that look on his face of what am I going to do; they are 89 cents; I have 89 cents. The lady said, well, with the tax. Little Michael turned to his dad and said, Dad, I have to pay tax on Skittles? Yes, that is what you have to do if we eliminate the IRS and the Federal income tax code. You could be a consumer who chooses when to pay your taxes, and like little Michael, pay taxes on Skittles at age seven or eight or less, and realize how expensive the Federal Government actually is. 
   That changes the psyche of an entire culture. People that are always looking to the Federal Government for a solution begin to realize they are funding the Federal Government and they are part of the solution. They are bought into this. 
   Going for a national sales tax, a consumption tax, a fair tax, Mr. Speaker, does everything good that everyone else's tax policy does and more besides, and that is not just my words. Those are also the words of one famed chairman who has been the lead guru on economics here in America for a lot of years. 
   It fixes everything that you can fix with a tax policy. It fixes everybody, all the pieces that come along here, puts them all together and does more besides. It border adjust taxes and it provides incentive for savings and investment. It doubles our economy in 10 to 15 years. It repairs our balance of trade and puts it on a surplus of balance of trade, and this growing economy then, on top of that, Mr. Speaker, it solves our deficit, our deficit in our revenue that we have here, our deficit spending because, when the economy doubles, we are going to have a lot more dollars that come flowing in here. 
   We replace the payroll tax, the Social Security, the Medicare and the Medicaid, with a consumption tax portion. I advocate for a 23 percent embedded tax that is made of these components. I said I would get back to this. 
   Three percent of that 23 percent provides a rebate into everybody's household to untax everyone in America up to the poverty level. So let us say the poverty level is $20,000 for a family of four, and I think the number is actually $18,500 for a family of four. They would pay about $458 in a month in taxes if they were going to consume to the level of their income. So this 3 percent goes into a fund, and immediately at the beginning of every month, it would do an automatic transfer into each household as registered by the Health and Human Services for the level of sales tax that that family would pay just up to the poverty level. So anybody that is living at the poverty level or below pays no tax, pays no national sales tax, but those that start  spending above that, above that $18,500, they start then paying the sales tax on that until you get to someone like I presume Bill Gates would be a rather robust consumer, I do not know that, but if I were he, I would be a robust consumer. People of that kind of income will be the ones who will pay the highest percentage of tax off their income. This is progressive, but also, it untaxes the poor. The first 3 percent collected is the portion that goes in to untax everyone up to the poverty level, and then those of us who spend more than the poverty level will pay our fair share of taxes going on up. That is 3 percent. 
   Eight percent goes to replace the payroll tax, Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, so that we no longer have to have that most regressive kind of a tax. That is a very regressive tax on especially the lower income people. There is no exemption for you if you are only making $10,000 a year. You are going to take the .0765 percent times two, and that is 15.3 percent, multiply that by your $10,000, and you are going to give up $1,530 to the payroll tax even if you only make $10,000 a year. 
   So you can see, Mr. Speaker, that is a 15 percent tax on some of the poorest people in America. We eliminate that tax and put it back on consumption. And by the way, when people max out on Social Security, the most wealthy people are paying at a lower rate on the payroll tax than the poor are among us. So payroll tax is a very regressive tax. We replace it with 8 percent. We untax everyone up to the poverty level with 3 percent, that is 11, and then to replace the income tax itself and be revenue neutral that takes a 12 percent embedded tax. That is how we get to 23. 
   This plan works. Every time I turn this rubrics cube around and look at it another way, it looks better and better and better, but my colleagues over here are content to stand here night after night, give us a list of lamentations on what is wrong with the President, the administration, the previous majority, the decisions that have been made here in this Congress over the last 15 years on trade. They argue that free trade is fine as long as it is fair trade, but I did not hear anyone advocate for any trade agreement that they ever agreed with. So that makes us trade isolationists unless they can come forward with some real changes. 
   Well, I will submit that I can support trade agreements. I can support them, Mr. Speaker, if we can have smart trade, but also, we need to have a more competitive environment for America's producers. That means pass the fair tax. 
   Also, a couple of years ago, I was sitting over in China. As I watched the negotiations go on and engaged in them, I saw the eyes of the negotiators on the other side of the Pacific Ocean, and I watched their smiles and I watched their heads nod. We were talking to them about the billions of dollars of intellectual property that is pirated by the Chinese, and it is essentially a national standard. At least there is so much of it that goes on, there is not a punishment going on for it, this standard of stepping in and stealing our intellectual property as quick as it comes on the market. 
   We might have a Hollywood movie that comes out and before the premier, the DVD has been pirated by the Chinese and it is on the streets in its black market version, undercutting the intellectual property and the creativity of Hollywood. Those things happen. 
   The copyrights and also the patents and the trademarks, those 3 pieces of intellectual property are consistently and persistently and strategically pirated by the Chinese. The Russians, too, only the Russians just are not as good as it yet, and they are getting better. 
   As I listened to those negotiations and as we put pressure on them over there to bring criminal charges against those who are stealing U.S. intellectual property rights and selling Rolex watches, fake Rolex watches would be another example that brings to that mind's eye, Mr. Speaker. As we put pressure on them to bring criminal charges and civil charges, they said to us, well, we are fining people for stealing U.S. intellectual property and we are moving forward more aggressively to enforce. So I asked them for a report on those fines, and they gave me 150 pages. It was all in Chinese, Mr. Speaker, so I did not really have the ability to determine that except that, by their witness and their verbal presentation to me, they had levied some fines for X number of yuan, Chinese dollars, but we also know that a government-owned company, that if it is owned by the government and if the government fines that company, it is like me deciding I am going to fine myself and I will take a couple of dollars out of this pocket and put it over here in this pocket. Makes no difference to a Communist State and State-owned businesses if the State fines the company. The State is the company, and so those statements did not move me very much, Mr. Speaker. 
   Then I asked about criminal charges, and they said, yes, we have brought some criminal charges and we are getting more rugged with our enforcement. So I asked the point blank question: Who have you locked up in jail? Who is in jail today because you are stealing our intellectual property? And of course, the answer was, Mr. Speaker, well, we have not locked anybody up just yet, but we are moving forward to enforce. 
   Well, I came to the conclusion that the Chinese saw it as a price of doing business. The cost of doing business was to smile and nod and speak nice and make nice to Americans that are over there that want to alleviate the burden of the pirating of the U.S. intellectual property rights and that they will continue smiling and nodding and hosting Americans as long as we are willing to come over there to complain, but nothing is going to happen. Nothing is ever going to happen unless we bring some leverage against them. 
   So I will submit a second solution for the folks over here and ask them: Do you care to weigh in on this? I would be happy to yield to you, and I hope you come to the floor at a later time, too, or we can get together and you can sign on to some of this legislation that actually provides solutions to the problems that you so articulately laid out here tonight. 
   But one of these solutions is this. Direct the U.S. Trade Representative to conduct a study to determine and evaluate the loss to American intellectual property rights holders to the Chinese for the pirating of those intellectual property rights. Once that amount is quantified, and Mr. Speaker, I can tell you it is in the billions, then direct the U.S. Trade Representative to levy a duty on all goods that come from China in an amount equivalent to be able to recover the complete loss that American property rights holders have sustained because of the piracy of their property rights and to distribute those proceeds back into the hands of the people that hold the copyrights, the trademarks and the other intellectual property rights. 
   That is another concrete solution that I would lay out here for the folks that come to the floor and talk about what is wrong but do not provide a solution and do not provide a way to fix things and turn them around and make them right, Mr. Speaker. 
   I did not necessarily come here tonight, though, to talk about the shortfalls of the presentation that was made by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. I came here tonight, Mr. Speaker, to talk about a great big issue that we have to face in this country. 
   As I stand here, this being the week beginning the 5th of March, it has been my understanding for some two to three weeks that the senator from Massachusetts, Senator Kennedy, was preparing to introduce a, I will put it in quotes, a ``comprehensive'' immigration bill sometime the week of the 5th of March. I am hopeful that that does not happen, at least coming out of him, the subcommittee chairman of the Immigration Subcommittee of the Judiciary on the Senate side. 
   We saw what they did last year over in the Senate and actually passed, and it was an abysmal piece of policy, Mr. Speaker. Now they are winding up to try it again, same person or persons, same face, same philosophy. That same philosophy is amnesty first, enforcement maybe never. 
   I remember Senator Kennedy standing out here on the Mall just on the West side of our West portico when we had demonstrators by the tens and perhaps hundreds of thousands last spring. He said to them, and these demonstrators, many were not lawfully present in the United States, one can presume I  think accurately, and he said to them, some say report to be deported; I say to you, report to become an American citizen. 
   That was the clarion call of the left wing liberals and the voice of Senator Kennedy calling for people, come to America, come here illegally and when you are here, we are going to pave the way for a path to citizenship for you and hand over to you all the benefits of American citizenship. 
   Well, I say to Senator Kennedy, if your mantra is amnesty, those of you who stand on amnesty, you deserve to be branded with the scarlet letter A for amnesty and treated as such because amnesty undermines the rule of law in this country. 
   These are some pillars of America that are essential for us in order to be able to sustain ourselves and sustain ourselves into the future. In order to identify those pillars of American civilization, we need to look back and identify what has been some of the roots of American exceptionalism. Why are we an exceptional Nation with such a dynamic economy? Why have we been so robust as a people? 
   There are a number of reasons, but one I would point out is that because we have brought in immigrants from all over the globe, because it was difficult to get here, because many of them had to sell themselves for seven years to pay off their passage to the United States, to work off the cost of that ride aboard ship across from Western Europe, for example, the people that had that sense of a dream, the sense of wanting to come here to realize their American dream, to raise their families here, they also had that sense of adventuresomeness. 
   Within all of that, the dream, the industriousness, the creativity, the sense of adventure, that desire to join with us in our manifest destiny as we settled a continent in lightening speed, all of that was the vitality that came in with our immigration. We were able to skim the cream off of the crop in Nation after Nation after Nation. Donor Nations gave up a measure of their most vital population because they came here so they could spread their wings and they could excel.     
   That is one of the pillars of American exceptionalism. Without belaboring that point very much any more, another pillar of American exceptionalism has been the foundation of our Constitution, which is drafted based upon the principles that you will find in the Declaration. And in the Constitution are our basic rights, freedom of speech, press, religion, assembly, and the second amendment rights, the right to keep and bear arms, and what used to be in our fifth amendment, the right to property, which says, ``nor shall private property be taken for public use without just compensation.'' 
   But now after the Keloe decision, it says, ``nor shall private property be taken without just compensation,'' the for public use words have been eliminated from the fifth amendment by the Supreme Court in the Keloe decision. 
   But up until that time, the sanctity of property rights rode right along with the sanctity of our first amendment rights, and we have done a good job of defending our second amendment rights. Throughout this is the vitality of America, because we have individual rights that are guaranteed, and they are passed down from God to each one of us. Then the individuals, we the people, then hand that responsibility over to our elected representatives to represent us in places like this House of Representatives. 
   But we have guaranteed rights, and those guaranteed rights and the rights of due process and to be protected from discrimination in a court of law have given us a sense of justice and a sense of the rule of law that gives every American, every American citizen and those who aspire to be American citizens, solid ground on which to stand, confidence that it is predictable into their future so that they can invest capital, borrow money against their property, be able to pay off the mortgage, be able to reach for the stars and dream, create and become an entrepreneur, be one of those people that really makes a big difference and realize their fortune and their dreams. These are some of the foundations of American exceptionalism, but the rule of law is a foundation for it. 
   If we grant amnesty to people who broke the law to come here, then we have undermined the rule of law. If we undermine the rule of law, we don't have the culture for a strong America any longer. We have lost a pillar for what makes us great. 
   So to reward law breakers does exactly that. As I listen to people that come in and testify in the immigration subcommittee meeting, I will often hear people; there will be those that come in and say, well, I was a beneficiary of the amnesty in 1986. I came in illegally when Ronald Reagan signed the amnesty bill; there was supposed to be some say as low as 300,000 that would get amnesty. I recall about 1 million, but we know that went over 3 million who received amnesty because the fraud was so rampant. 
   The document forgers kicked into high gear. For everyone that got a designed amnesty in a legal fashion, there were others who by hook and crook got their amnesty. But all of them are for amnesty today if they happen to be alive and still in this country, and so are their families and their friends for amnesty. They say, well, it is not a hard thing to figure out. It was good for my dad or my mother or my brother or my uncle. Look, they are here in America, and they are doing well. 
   Why shouldn't we give amnesty to other people, because it has been good to us. Now that is a very simple equation and not a very rational thought process but, for every one we grant amnesty to, there will be several who will say, I think that is a good idea because my friend or my relation thought amnesty was a good idea. 
   If this becomes amnesty for 12 million or 15 million or for 20 million or more, and they bring in their extended families at the tune of maybe as many as 273 for every anchor baby that comes into the United States, we won't just have 12 or 15 or 20 or more million who have no respect and, in fact, contempt for the rule of law; we will have 100 or more million that will have contempt for the rule of law. 
   That then would utterly destroy the rule of law in America. We would go back to a third world kind of country where the rule of law doesn't work down south in places like Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador, Colombia. It is the rule of who has the power and who has the guns. 
   I see that my friend and colleague from Texas, the wonderful doctor, whom I seek his counsel quite often, especially on these technical issues, has arrived on the floor. I would be happy to yield as much time as the doctor from Texas (Mr. Burgess), would consume. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (SOLUTIONS TO TRADE PROBLEMS -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. In reclaiming my time, I thank the tenacious Texan for coming to the floor. He knows how much I revere Steve Forbes and Steve Forbes' financial acumen, as well as Alan Greenspan's. Perhaps on this subject matter it is one versus the other. 
   I also notice the gentleman from Texas, however compelling the argument, didn't present a list of things that his tax policy does better than the tax policy I advocate. But I think we both recognize that either is far better than what we are dealing with today. 
   There is nothing coming out of the other side of the aisle, particularly from the Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Rangel, except, well, we are going to figure out some ways to raise some of these existing taxes and maintain the convolutions that are within them. That is what we have to look forward to. 
   The stock market last week had its worst single week in 4 years. I don't think its coincidental that the tax increases that this have come out of this Congress, the Pelosi Congress, and the noises coming out of the Ways and Means Committee, particularly the Chair, have added instability to our New York stock exchange and all of our financial markets. Once the inertia of this continues, we might find ourselves in a significantly poorer situation and not very far from now. 
   I, also, on the immigration issue, there were some statistics that I had made a promise that I would unfold here and send this message out, and that is that we are faced with a tremendous amount of loss here in America in the lives of Americans because we are not enforcing at our border. 
   As the gentleman from Texas said, we need to first stop the bleeding at the border and get that under control. We need to push all traffic, both, all products, all contraband, all human traffic, through the ports of entry. We need to beef up our ports of entry. 
   You know, as I was sitting in an immigration hearing a couple or 3 years ago, I began to listen to the testimony about how many people died in the Arizona desert in a year. 
   It is a significant number then; it was about 250. Now, I think it is 400. That is sad, and it is tragic, but I, again, wonder, the 11,000 a night that sneak into the United States across our southern border, I sat down there by the fence in the dark and had the infiltration going around on either side of me, and that 11,000 a night is calculated by this Border Patrol agent who testified they stop between a fourth and a third. 
   And they stop 1,188,000 last year. If you do the math on that, that shows about 4 million a year get into the United States, and out of that 4 million, that works out to be about 11,000 a night. 
   I would expect there is someone around here that knows the size of Santa Ana's Army when he came across the river. But me being a Yankee, I have to guess at it. I think it was about 6,000 strong. It was then that when they attacked the Alamo at San Antonio. But if it was 6,000 strong or less than that when they attacked the Alamo, I would just suggest that twice the size of Santa Ana's army comes across the border every single night. 
   They may not be in uniforms, and they may not be marching in orderly ranks, and they may not be all of them armed, but they are carrying with them $65 billion worth of illegal drugs coming into the United States, $65 billion.     
   And we are spending $8 billion a year on our southern border. And out of that $8 billion, that is $4 million a mile, and we are getting some kind of efficiency rating of our dollars of maybe 25 percent of enforcement, and often I hear a 10 percent number from the Border Patrol people that are down there. 
   So what is the price to America? $65 billion worth of illegal drugs that comes out of the pockets of Americans. And the price in lives? The question that I ask and commissioned the GAO study for was, How many Americans die at the hands of those who do get across the border? And that number came out, not quite apples to apples and I had to do a calculation or two off of other government studies to match up with the GAO study from April of 2005, and it works out to be this: of the inmates in our Federal and State penitentiaries, 28 percent are criminal  aliens. And I am going to presume that if we had enforced our laws, none of them would have been in the United States. 
   So if you take 28 percent and you calculate that across the murders that we have in America, and that is about 16,000, a little over that, you will end up with a number 28 percent of that is 4,518 murder victims in the United States at the hands of those who are criminal aliens in the United States. You add to that the victims of negligent homicide, most of them drunk driving victims, and that is going to run 28 percent of those, that comes out to 4,746, Mr. Speaker. So you add those two together, that is 9,264 lives in America die violently every year at the hands of criminal aliens, presumably who would not be in the United States had we aggressively enforced our laws. 
   That is a shocking and astonishing number. It is three times the amount of victims that we had on September 11, and that is an annual number every single year. 
   Now, what does it cost us in dollars? Incarceration costs alone of the 267,000 illegal aliens that we have locked up in our prisons that we can count, and many of them we don't know, but we know we can count 267,000 and they will cost us in incarceration costs $6.7 billion just to lock them up. 
   So we are spending $8 billion on the border on our Border Patrol for maybe 25 percent efficiency; we are spending $6.7 billion to lock up the criminal aliens and hold them in our prisons. And then, on top of that, the cost to murder victims, and that number has been calculated by government numbers at $3.9 million per murder victim. That comes out to be $17.05 billion in the cost of murder victims in dollars. And those victims of negligent homicide, I have measured that a little bit smaller at two-thirds of that overall cost of the murder victim because the investigations don't go so far. That comes to $11.37 billion. 
   So I add these numbers up: Incarceration costs, $6.7 billion; the value of lost productivity in lives of murder victims, $17.05 billion; the value in lost productivity in lives at negligent homicide victims, $11.37 billion. It comes up to $35.12 billion out-of-pocket costs out of the United States just for those who were killed and to lock up those who kill. That does not include rape victims, assault victims, grand larceny and theft victims. That list goes on and on and on. 
   Sex victims is another one. We have identified about 240,000 sex criminals who are criminal aliens. And of those, they have at least four identifiable victims. So you do the math on that. It is just a few short of 1 million victims of sex crimes, and many of those are sex crimes where there is a murder involved as well. 
   The price to this society is unbelievable. It has only begun to be quantified. But to put it in a context, it works like this: $65 billion worth of illegal drugs is costing our economy $35 billion-plus a year, just the victims of murder, negligent homicide, and to lock up those who do the same, $35 billion. 
   The value of the entire oil industry of Mexico is $28 billion. We pay more for murder victims and negligent homicide victims here in the United States and plus locking them up than all of the oil revenue of a pretty good oil-producing country the size of Mexico. 
   And then, additionally, another $8 billion a year just to guard our southern border. And on top of that, there will be a report coming out very soon, if it is not out already, that shows that remittances is a term they use. This is a transfer of wages from mostly immigrants here in the United States, some illegal, some legal, out of the United States. That number has been going up incrementally year by year, and last year it was $45 billion a year that was transferred out of the United States in remittances, or usually wire transfers, back to home countries. 
   This report that is due to come out if it is not out now will show $60 billion transferred in the last year, $30 billion of it going to Mexico, $30 billion of it going to other places in the western hemisphere, but usually the lion's share of that goes into Central America and the Caribbean. 
   So when you look at the dollars transferred out of our society, $60 billion being sent out by labor, $65 billion paying for illegal drugs, $35 billion to pay for the cost of violent death, and $8 billion to guard the border, you can see, I think, Mr. Speaker, how massive this burden is here for the taxpayers and the victims of crime here in the United States. 
   And one thing that I have always wondered about crime victims is that if society really paid that whole cost, if we had to write the check for the $35 billion or so that it costs for victims, the violent death in America at the hands of criminal aliens, if we had to write the check for that, the taxpayers would be outraged if it were a line item on an appropriations bill here in the United States Congress. 
   But, instead, it isn't quite like that. There are costs picked up by the taxpayers, investigations, prosecutions, incarcerations. We pick those up. But the real costs comes out of the lives of the people who are their victims in great huge whopping chunks of their lives, their future, for their families, their productivity, and leaves a hole that can never be healed again. 
   That is the burden that is all of this, and the injustice of it comes from the psychology that the State is the one that is wronged and the crime victim is made whole when the State believes that they are whole. And the crime victim in this country by our process is seldom made whole, and as a matter of fact, maybe is never made whole. 
   So we have a big problem here in America. But sometimes there are faces that need to be identified, too, Mr. Speaker, and so I have gathered up some of the faces of these perpetrators. When I stand here and say 9,264 violent deaths in America, that is kind of faceless. I would point out, too, though, that maybe people were skeptical of my numbers. Maybe they think that those numbers are too high. I would ask, what are your numbers? Produce those. 
   But here is another way of looking at it. Violent death in America is 4.28 out of every 100,000 people. Violent death in Mexico is 13.2 out of every 100,000. That is a good, solid three times the violent death rate in Mexico as it is the United States. 
   Now, Mexico happens to be one of the more peaceful 
   countries south of us. If you go to Honduras, their violent death rate is nine times that of the United States. And I don't know what El Salvador's is, they don't publish that. But when you get to Colombia, their violent death rate is 15.4 times the violent death rate of the United States. And, on top of that, the people that are coming in from those countries are young men. Young men will commit more than twice as many violent crimes as any other demographic group, in fact, significantly more than that. 
   And they are coming from countries that are more violent, and they are bringing drugs from those countries to the tune of $65 billion. So there is crime and violence associated with the drugs; there is crime and violence associated with young men. There are young men coming from countries that are far more violent than in the United States. And when you sit down and do the math and calculate out, if you were going to predict the crime results here in America, you would find, Mr. Speaker, that the 28 percent that are incarcerated in our prisons today that are criminal aliens probably don't represent the overall crime impact on the United States society. 
   But to personalize this a little bit, I have brought a few of the faces of these evil perpetrators down here to the floor. This, being one of the more evil. This is the face of Santos Cabrera Borjas. He is a 22-year-old, was a 22-year-old illegal alien from Honduras, that country that has got nine times the violent death rate of the United States. They can live with a lot higher level of violence. 
   Here is the kind of violence you get with one of these people. On June 4, 2006, Borjas murdered an innocent 9-year-old boy named Jordin Paudler of Georgia by hacking him to death with a hatchet. Borjas was in a car that was driving through the neighborhood, it had a wobbly wheel, and this young 9-year-old boy Jordin Paudler called out to the car and said, You have got a bad wheel on your car, being helpful, like young boys will do, like a lot of good Americans are. And Santos Cabrera Borjas got out of the car and attacked this young 9-year-old boy with a hatchet and twice split his forehead with a hatchet and left it in, as I understand it, all because he tried to help.  
   This is an example, and I will bring many of these examples to the floor as time unfolds, Mr. Speaker, and this is one of the faces of evil. There are many, many faces of evil. We have a big debate in front of us. I thank you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (ROE V. WADE -- (House of Representatives - January 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. I thank the gentleman from Arizona for organizing this Special Order tonight on this day that culminates a long period of time here in Washington across America where we have gathered together to march and to speak and to appeal and to pray for the end of this holocaust of abortion in America. 
   I have enjoyed those experiences that I have been able to share with my pro-life colleagues. As I went to the mass last night in the basilica and looked out across that sea of faces, more than 10,000 strong on the ground floor of that magnificent cathedral up on the hill in northeast Washington, realizing that there are 10,000 people in the main floor and another 5,000 in the basement, 15 to 16,000, many young people, who have done the pilgrimage from all across America, gotten on a bus and ridden for hours, maybe 18 or 20 or more hours to get here. They will go to the service, and they came to the march, the march for life today on The Mall in the cold and in the drizzle. They got back on the bus, some of them without even getting a chance to get warm, and headed back to their homes again. Those are people with conviction. Those are people that understand the two simple and basic questions that are before us here. 
   The first question is, and so when I ask many high school students in public auditoriums, do you believe in the sanctity of life? Is human life sacred in all of its forms? Is the person sitting next to you, is their life sacred? Is your life sacred? And I get the answer, the universal answer is yes, yes from all of them. I have never had a dissenter. 
   Then I asked them, there is only one other question you need to ask to determine your position on life, and that is, this sacred life, your life, the person sitting next to you, at what instant did that life begin? 
   We know that there is only one instant, and that is the instant of conception. But once a person understands and comes to a faithful conviction that human life is sacred, and it begins at the instant of conception, we also will never lose the debate, will never lose our conviction. 
   I would invite anyone in this Congress to come to this floor and debate me on those two points. I would like to have someone stand up and tell me their life began at some other instant than conception, but it will not happen, because they know that the minute, the instant that anybody over here takes a position other than this sacred life begins at the instant of conception, they have instantly lost the debate. 
   That's the point that I think all Americans should understand. If they do, this Nation will one day put an end to Roe v. Wade. 
   I am a Catholic, an active Catholic, and I understand the church's teachings on this. I wonder, sometimes about some of the active Catholics in this Congress that do not necessarily reflect the church's teachings. I would love to see, and I would call out an invitation next year for the special mass at the basilica, for the Speaker to join us there in our public prayer for those 50 million lives of those little babies, those little babies that will never have the opportunity to laugh, to love, never be hugged at night, never be kissed at night, not a single night, 50 million babies, 50 million little empty pairs of shoes, 50 million empty baby cribs, 50 million toys never played with, 50 million children, innocent as could be, denied the right to life. 
   I reflect upon the appointments to the Supreme Court that the President made in this past term, two magnificent appointments to the Supreme Court, and that would be Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Alito. We got a Supreme Court decision that upheld our ban on partial birth abortion finally, finally a measure that came from this Congress that was not denied by the Court.  
   When I looked across the sea of faces that filled The Mall as far as the eye could see today by the tens of thousands, and perhaps by the hundreds of thousands, and reflected that they all came here to this city today because the Court injected themselves into a policy decision, not a constitutional decision. 
   Roe vs. Wade and Doe v. Bolten, both need to be ripped out and both need to be overturned. The two magnificent appointments to the Supreme Court that understand this Constitution to mean what it says and mean what it was understood when it was ratified by our Founders, those appointments are wonderful appointments that move us down the line. 
   This Constitution will protect life; it will protect marriage. But we must have a Supreme Court that protects the Constitution, that does not amend it with their liberalism and their activism. 
   Mr. Speaker, the next two appointments to the Supreme Court will be more important than the last two. The next two appointments to the Supreme Court will determine whether we preserve and protect life and whether we preserve and protect marriage. Those two are transformational issues before this Congress. We must stand up for life. 
   We said goodbye to the elegant statesman and the great lion for life, Henry Hyde, Chairman Henry Hyde. Many of us count him as a friend. I counted him as one of the honors of my life to be able to call him as a friend and someone whom I admired. 
   The words on the program at Henry Hyde's funeral were a quote from him that say this: ``When the time comes, as it surely will, when we face that awesome moment, the final judgment, I've often thought, as Fulton Sheen wrote, that it is a terrible moment of loneliness. You have no advocates. You are there alone standing before God, and a terror will rip through your soul like nothing you can imagine. But I really think that those in the pro-life movement will not be alone. I think there will be a chorus of voices that have never been heard in this world but are heard beautifully and clearly in the next world, and they will plead for everyone who has been in this movement. They will say to God, 'Spare him because he loved us,' and God will look at you and say not 'Did you succeed?' but 'Did you try?''' 
   God bless his life and his effort, and may he save the lives of the unborn. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, this amendment that I bring to the floor of the House under limitation on bases in Iraq is an amendment that addresses the subject matter that we have debated on the floor at least twice before that I recall. And I believe there is a consensus here in this Congress, and certainly there has been a message that has been put forth by the President, that we are not interested in permanent bases in Iraq but we do have bases there and we do have temporary basing agreements. 
   So as I read through this appropriations bill and it says that ``None of the funds made available in this act may be used by the Government of the United States to enter into a basing rights agreement between the United States and Iraq,'' that language clearly forbids any agreements, however temporary they might be. And so the amendment that I bring to the floor simply adds the word ``permanent'' to that language. So that now, if the amendment is adopted, it will read that none of the funds may be used to enter into a ``permanent'' basing rights agreement. 
   I think it is a matter of language and semantics here but a matter of clarity, too. And I would point out that in our last debate in the 2007 DOD approps, Mr. Murtha made the statement, what we are saying with this bill is that at this point in time there shouldn't be any permanent bases in Iraq. What I have done is offer an amendment that simply says there won't be any of the funds used to promote permanent bases in Iraq out of this Foreign Ops bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I would say that we may not have the same view on how to proceed in Iraq, but it is my intention to foreclose any permanent bases in Iraq and allow those that are under agreement now and perhaps temporary ones that might be negotiated to get us through this process. I think that is the intent on both sides of the aisle. I think that is the intent of the White House. So I believe we are consistent in our understanding. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
   My amendment is a fairly simple amendment. It goes into the section and limits the funds for travel by the Speaker of the House of Representatives to countries that are state sponsors of terrorism. And it simply says none of the funds may be used to support travel by the Speaker to the nations specifically of Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan or Syria. And the reason for that, Mr. Chairman, is that there are two constraints on the Speaker of the House. One of them is a constitutional constraint that vests the authority of foreign policy into the President of the United States. And that's clear. And that's established in the Constitution and codified by our founders specifically so there wouldn't be a division of messages, that we would speak with one voice on foreign policy. 
   And when they had problems with that even after the ratification of the Constitution, then they passed the Logan Act, which has been in law for over 200 years. And the Logan Act prohibits anyone representing the United States, without the authority of the administration, to conduct foreign policy. And it's clear that's what happened in Syria, and it was reported in newspapers all over this country in April. 
   And so this legislation, this appropriation, without my amendment, would allow taxpayers' dollars to support what I believe is unconstitutional behavior and statutory violations. 
   I urge support of this bill. 
   Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 15 seconds. 
   Mr. Chairman, I would point out that no one here that has traveled to a foreign country has announced a new foreign policy but the Speaker of the House. No one here has pointed out how it is you can contravene the Constitution. We all take an oath, solemnly swear to uphold this Constitution. And no one here has pointed to a law that supersedes the Logan Act. 
   Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 1/4 minutes to the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Cantor). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008--Continued -- (House of Representatives - June 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I take us to this path where we are, and I haven't heard the response to the issue of the constitutional constraints that we all have. 
   I have traveled foreign and I have sat in there in diplomatic discussions and debates and I have heard us get off track. I have heard us put our national security at risk, because sometimes the people that were there on the codel weren't tuned in with the administration's policy. I have not seen us take us to the crisis moment, but I have seen the precipice of the crisis moment. 
   But our founders understood this clearly and that is why they laid that responsibility in the hands of the President of the United States to conduct our foreign policy. That is why he appoints the Ambassadors. That is why he negotiates the treaties. That is why 200 years of tradition and history and constitutional law takes us down this path. 
   And if we can ignore our oath to the Constitution, then on top of that, how can we ignore the Logan Act, which is the only controlling Federal statute that we have? The Logan Act says no citizen of the United States shall take foreign policy into their own hands. 
   Our Speaker clearly traveled to a terrorist-sponsored state against the express wishes of the President of the United States. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. King). 
   The question was taken; and the Acting Chairman announced that the noes appeared to have it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. KING of Iowa. (COMMITTEE FUNDING RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - March 08, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I am compelled to come to the floor and stand up and speak in opposition to this rule. 
   The rules package that came before the floor of the House, an unamendable rules package, was amended before it came to the 109th, to the 110th Congress, eliminating the requirement that the Rules Committee and other committee votes be published when there is a recorded vote. 
   Yesterday, before the Rules Committee, I brought an amendment that would require the Rules Committee to print recorded votes if they were to receive any of the funding that is authorized. I got about a third of the way through my presentation when I was interrupted by the chair, and the point was made that they have printed their votes to this date. The argument was made that since they have complied with my amendment, then there is no reason for my amendment, in fact, no latitude for me to continue my debate with regard to that and my presentation. 
   So I rise in opposition to this rule because, first of all, we need to have sunlight on everything we do, and a requirement to provide to the public access to recorded votes is something that ought to be in the rule. It ought not to be an option. If it is the practice of the Rules Committee, then this amendment codifies the practice of the Rules Committee, and it should not receive objection, especially the vociferous interruption objection. 
   I also object to the way I was treated before the Rules Committee. I will keep coming back regardless. I will not be intimidated, and I intend to raise the sunlight on everything we do in this Congress. I want to see all of our  work become available on the Internet, in a searchable, sortable, downloadable format. I want all the sunlight possible, so the bloggers can see, and I would love to see television cameras up before the Rules Committee as well, Mr. Speaker. I think that will help the decorum of the Rules Committee. 
   But I intend to come back. Like the Governor from California, I will be back. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
