<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. RENZI. (HAWAIIAN HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 21, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. RENZI. Thank you very much. I want to thank the gentleman from Hawaii and your colleagues for your leadership on this issue and your camaraderie in helping all Native Americans pushing forward in homeownership. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 835, the Hawaiian Homeownership Opportunity Act of 2007. This bill is a reauthorization of title 8 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act commonly known as the NAHASDA. It's administered by the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands, and this provides native low-income families the opportunity for homeownership on Hawaiian Home Lands. 
   The Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act was passed in 1996. It reauthorized a system of housing assistance provided to tribes throughout the Department of Housing and Urban Development by creating the Indian Housing Block Grant program, which provides funds directly to tribes for housing services as determined by the tribes themselves. 
   In 2000, the NAHASDA was amended to include title 8 so that Native Hawaiians could receive block grant funding as well through a separate grant, the Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant, which funds vital housing programs only on Hawaiian Home Lands through the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands, a Federal agency established by Congress in 1921 to administer trust land in Hawaii. 
   Title 8 funding has allowed the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands to target assistance at families at or below 80 percent of the median income. This funding is used for such assistance as infrastructure development, as my colleague Mr. Abercrombie talked about, Habitat for Humanity in Hawaii, down payment assistance programs, self-help home repair programs and financial literacy programs.     
   Title 8 of the NAHASDA was originally authorized for 5 years through 2005, and has not been formally reauthorized since. Although appropriation acts have continued to provide de facto 1-year authorizations for this program, this bill will reauthorize the program through fiscal year 2012. 
   In addition to reauthorization, the bill makes two changes to existing law. First, it makes the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands eligible for loan guarantees authorized under title 6 in the NAHASDA. Giving the Department title 6 assets would allow the Department to help more low-income families become homeowners, without a large increase in Federal appropriations, by partnering with private markets. 
   Second, this legislation allows Native Hawaiians the use of HUD section 184(a) guaranteed loans for refinancing in addition to construction. Adding the  refinancing authority reduces the cost of homeownership for low-income families and can also reduce risk by lowering monthly mortgage payments. 
   Congress must continue to embrace initiatives such as the one we are currently considering that encourages Americans to own a home. 
   Again, I would like to thank Mr. Abercrombie and his colleagues from Hawaii, and I thank Chairman Waters on our subcommittee. 
   Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. RENZI. (AUTHORIZING PAYMENT FOR SERVICES RENDERED BY SUBCONTRACTORS FOR WORK TO BE COMPLETED AT GRAND CANYON NATIONAL PARK -- (House of Representatives - April 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. RENZI. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my chairman and colleague from Arizona (Mr. Grijalva) and my neighbor from New Mexico (Mr. Pearce) for their assistance and support in helping us find a solution finally today. 
   It has been 4 years in the making. I thank you, Mr. Grijalva and Mr. Pearce, for being a part of pushing this across the finish line. 
   Our intention today is to provide legislation to fix a problem that affects almost 40 small business men and women throughout Arizona, Utah, New Mexico and the Southwest who are devastated by this unfortunate contract mismanagement that the National Park Service and Pacific General, Inc. were involved in. 
   I know, Mr. Pearce, you remember from last Congress, in helping us finish on this, that many of these businesses are bankrupt today. Many of their sons and daughters aren't able to go to college because the Federal Government owes them money for work that they performed in the Grand Canyon. So today, we find a way to fix that with a technical correction in order for these subcontractors to get paid. 
   Mike Richardson, who is the owner of Southwest Water Works, located in Phoenix, Arizona, came before Congress, before your subcommittee last session. He testified, and he was able to bring this problem to the forefront. His dedicated assistance to bringing this matter before Congress should be commended. 
   After this time, the Washington Contracting and Procurement Office of the National Park Service performed an acquisition management review. In this review, the National Park Service discovered that the park had failed to ensure that PGI obtained the proper payments and performance bonds required by the National Park Service under the Miller Act. Then on February 6, 2004, the National Park Service suspended further payments to PGI, issued a suspension notice, and ceased activities with the contractor. 
   Unfortunately, as stated, the subcontractors were not paid for the work that they provided to the Federal Government. They fall into two categories. The first category consists of subcontractors that performed work on various projects where the National Park Service had already paid PGI for their work. Up to $1.3 million PGI did not pay to subcontractors. I think, as Congressman Grijalva talked about, there were $17 million paid overall to the contractor; $1.3 million never made its way down to these subcontractors. 
   The second category is composed of subcontractors who performed work on various projects where the National Park Service failed to pay PGI. The National Park Service has been unable to pay these contractors who performed the work at Grand Canyon because Federal law prohibits payments directly to subcontractors due to a lack of direct contractual relationship between the parties. 
   This bill today that Mr. Grijalva has championed, and Mr. Pearce, fixes this grave inequity. 
   I thank you so very much for your leadership, Mr. Grijalva and Mr. Pearce. I appreciate your service, and understanding these are small business men and women, Arizona, New Mexico and Utah, that will benefit from your leadership on this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. RENZI. (IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. RENZI. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the dialogue, and I thank the gentleman from California. I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
   I also could benefit from the wisdom of the gentleman from Maryland. In defense of my neighbor from New Mexico, she articulately pointed out that the resolution also talks about the fact that the flawed language in this resolution, and I quote, says that Congress disapproves of deploying more than 20,000 additional United States combat troops to Iraq. 
   Certainly you do not disapprove of the several thousand troops that will be sent to al-Anbar province. I mean, after all, that is where we are engaging al Qaeda, the folks who attacked us. I mean, after all, that is where the generals are asking for those several thousand troops. 
   So you throw out a number of 20,000 troops. Not all of them are going to downtown Baghdad. Many of them are going to al-Anbar. A funny thing about al-Anbar province and Fallujah. The tribal authorities in that area who were with al Qaeda have now turned against al Qaeda. They are looking to join the American forces. They are looking to take advantage of this new enthusiasm, this new troop deployment. 
   Certainly when you put down 20,000 troops, you don't mean the 4,000 or 5,000 going to fight al Qaeda that attacked us. Do you? Because that portion of the resolution is flawed. 
   I was recently in Iraq and had the honor of meeting Major General Moore. Major General Moore reminded me, ``Al Qaeda is a hyena waiting in the dark, ready to rip apart innocent Americans. And they are coming. We need to be lions, fiercely defending our people, ferocious in the face of enemy.'' 
   You know, unfortunately, this nonbinding resolution is a political whimper rather than a roar of support for our troops. The language undermines our battlefield plans, it fails to offer any alternatives, it offers no hope, encourages no victory, and contains no solutions. 
   Mr. Speaker, this resolution is a cruel message to our brave soldiers on the front lines and it undermines their fighting spirit and their morale. It pushes for an abrupt exit to Iraq, sidesteps the dire consequences of leaving Iraq, not just of the country but of the people. 
   On a recent trip to Baghdad I was stunned by the honorable Iraqi families who live in the Sunni-Shia fault line neighborhoods, families who have lived together despite ethnic differences and religious differences. These are neighborhoods that are a model for religious tolerance. Can you imagine enduring religious bigotry and living peacefully alongside a different Muslim sect, and yet in exchange for your moderation and understanding your family is hunted, you are forced to move by armed militia at gunpoint, and these are the same radicals that pursue and round up your husbands and your sons and torture them and kill them?     
   And then you are left as a single mother in downtown Baghdad with children, and all you have to hold on to is a fledgling government and American soldiers, these same American soldiers that are already deployed and being sent and are already on their way to Baghdad to protect your home and your children's future. And yet this morning you awake in Baghdad, you await the news of politicians in Washington arguing about taking away this little bit of security that you have. 
   And if you can't imagine that, and a lot us have traveled together who have been to the Iran-Iraq border, go with me to al-Kut, where we are developing evidence of Iran's active engagement in exporting weapons and money and support for radical Islamists. Could the news be true that the Americans are talking about leaving the border, about leaving the several hundred El Salvadoran and multinational forces that are serving there with us? Those are the El Salvadorans from our own hemisphere. These are the El Salvadorans that survived death squads in their own country. These are the El Salvadorans who will return home. And what will they say about America? Did we leave too soon? Did we leave that border unguarded? Did we turn it over to the Iranians? Did we allow that little city called al-Kut to revert back to the city named ``Little Teheran''? 
   The State Department has warned us that a retreat of American military forces at this time could trigger ethnic cleansing. The resulting humanitarian crisis could be one of the worst in the region, and genocide could trigger a refugee exodus into Jordan and Syria and the surrounding regions. 
   My friends, should we lose our resolve, it is likely death squads will roam and will become immediately more emboldened and more murderous, and what is now referred to as violence in Baghdad will quickly regress into mass killings. 
   Mr. Speaker, genocide is what caused our involvement in the Clinton administration to put us into Bosnia. Eventually the cry from mass slaughter of innocent civilians in Baghdad could cause us to reenter Iraq. We need to take responsibility, all of us, for our words and our actions. We need to understand the effect this flawed resolution has on the morale of our soldiers overseas, and the effect it will have on the desires of our allies to team with us in the future. 
   Finally, we need to take responsibility, all of us, for the encouragement this resolution gives to our enemies. 
   I was up in Bilad recently with General McCrystal. After a long briefing and discussion, we were ready to depart the region and General McCrystal said to me, You know, tell the folks back home that I am going to stay and fight until somebody makes me leave. 
   General McCrystal, today we are trying to stop that from happening until your work is done. 
   Mr. Speaker, the American people must demand that the authors of this resolution tell us what their better plan is for al Anbar province. Tell us what your better plan is for the tribal authorities who have just joined us in the fight against al Qaeda in our national interests. Tell us, my colleagues, explain to me the consequences of withdrawing from downtown Baghdad and the slaughter that that could have on the tens of thousands of innocent families. 
   Tell me what we say to the Salvadorans serving with us on the Iraq-Iranian border if we are about to leave that border unguarded. Please explain to me how this measure of discouragement, this flawed resolution, doesn't affect the performance and the morale of our troops. Please tell me how this political debate doesn't weaken the resolve of our country to win, to endure, and to prevail. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. RENZI. (NATIVE AMERICAN HOME OWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - April 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. RENZI. Madam Speaker, the Native American Home Ownership Opportunity Act of 2007 is an important piece of legislation that reauthorizes this vital section 184 Native American housing program which is operated by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
   Back in 2004, the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing, chaired by former Congressman Bob Ney, held the first congressional hearing on Native American housing in the history of the United States Congress on tribal lands in Tuba City, Arizona, out west on Navajo country. And many of the folks from both sides of the aisle got together and went out there and visited the Grand Canyon and got a chance to see the Navajo Nation, the pink stones and the sands, and they got to visit the country and truly see the beauty and the conditions, but also the largest land mass of poverty in America, the size of West Virginia. And Bob Ney helped make that happen. And that hearing was important because it brought light to the challenges that face Native Americans when trying to achieve home ownership. 
   Native Americans, as a group, have the single lowest home ownership rate in America, less than 25 percent. And the problem is especially acute on the Navajo Nation. 
   So this section 184 program provides 100 percent guarantees to the outstanding principal and interest for single-family residential homes. And to date, over 4,200 loans have been guaranteed by this program. Now everybody is out there talking about subprime lending and the default and the foreclosures. Only 30 loans in this Native American program have ever been defaulted on, less than 1 percent. This low rate greatly shows the efficiency of section 184, and the program has received the highest rating of America's Office of Management and Budget, even though it doesn't need it. This year it is expected that the program will enable private lenders to finance about 1,600 new mortgages. 
   So I want to thank Congressman Boren of Oklahoma, Chairman Frank, who has been absolutely bipartisan and forward-thinking in pushing housing issues, particularly on Native American, Chairman Waters and the subcommittee, Chairman Biggert, and I want to thank Bob Ney for his advocacy for the poor around America and for Native American housing. If my colleagues don't think this is good, they don't know what is good. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Mr. RENZI. (HAWAIIAN HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 28, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. RENZI. Madam Speaker, today I rise in support of H.R. 835, the Hawaiian Homeownership Opportunity Act of 2007. 
   This bill is a reauthorization of Title 8 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act--commonly known as NAHASDA. 
   H.R. 835 reauthorizes the program within the Department of Housing and Urban Development that provides low-income Native Hawaiian families the opportunity for homeownership on their Hawaiian home lands. 
   Back in 1996, Congress passed NAHASDA--which reorganized the system of housing assistance provided to tribes through HUD. 
   The Indian Housing Block Grant program was created to provide funds directly to tribes for housing services as determined by the tribes themselves. 
   In 2000, NAHASDA was amended to include Title 8 so that Native Hawaiians could receive block grant funding as well through a separate grant program--the Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant program. 
   This program funds housing programs on Hawaiian Home Lands--through the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands, a Federal agency established by Congress in 1921 to administer trust land in Hawaii. 
   Title 8 funding has allowed the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands to target housing assistance to families at or below 80 percent of median income. 
   This funding is used for such assistance as infrastructure development, downpayment assistance, self-help home repair programs, and financial literacy programs. 
   Additionally, Habitat for Humanity has also received funding through this program. 
   Title 8 of NAHASDA was originally authorized for 5 years, through 2005, and has not been formally reauthorized since, although appropriations acts have continued to provide de facto 1-year reauthorizations for the program. 
   This bill would reauthorize the program through fiscal year 2012. 
   In addition to reauthorization, the bill makes two changes to existing law. 
   First, it makes the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands eligible for loan guarantees authorized under Title 6 of NAHASDA. Giving the Department Title 6 access would allow the Department to help more low-income families become homeowners without a large increase in Federal appropriations by partnering with the private market. 
   Second, this legislation allows Native Hawaiians the use of HUD's Section 184(a) guaranteed loans for refinancing in addition to construction. Adding the refinance authority reduces the cost of homeownership for low-income families and can also reduce risk by lowering monthly mortgage payments. 
   Congress must continue to embrace initiatives such as the one we are considering today that encourage Americans to own a home. 
   Last week, this bill failed to receive the two-thirds majority necessary to pass under the suspension calendar, although the majority of members voted to approve the bill. 
   I believe that the bill's failure to pass was the result of misconceptions about this bill that I would like to address. 
   This is not a bill about Native Hawaiian sovereignty. 
   The subject of Native Hawaiian sovereignty is a separate issue altogether and is not addressed in this legislation. 
   This bill simply reauthorizes and makes some small improvements to an existing program. It does not confer any special rights to the Native Hawaiians--nor does the bill suggest that Native Hawaiians should be given a status equal to that of Native Americans. 
   It simply reauthorizes a program created by Congress in the year 2000, just 7 years ago. 
   At that time, Congress chose to establish a housing program to benefit poor Native Hawaiians living on their home lands--200,000 acres scattered throughout the islands of Hawaii. 
   In the 7 years since the Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant program has been in place, it has enabled thousands of Hawaiians to live in decent, safe, and sanitary housing and helped thousands to achieve the dream of homeownership. 
   This program is a model for Federal-State cooperation and also an example for how Federal resources can support the efforts of the private market in providing the capital necessary for homeownership. 
   Yesterday, Hawaiians celebrated Prince Kuhio Day, a State holiday recognizing the contributions of a great leader who was a leading member of the Republican Party in Hawaii and a delegate to the House of Representatives for nearly 20 years. 
   I ask my colleagues that we honor the memory of Representative Kuhio, and that we continue to support the Native Hawaiians living on the Home Lands. 
   I would like to recognize Mr. Abercrombie for introducing this legislation. 
   Also, I thank Chairman Frank and Ranking Member Bachus of the Financial Services Committee for working to bring this bill to the floor, which was approved by the Financial Services Committee by voice vote. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this important piece of legislation to reauthorize a program to help Native Hawaiians living in poverty. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
