<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CONSUMER ENERGY SUPPLY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 24, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding and commend him for his excellent management of this legislation on the floor today. I want to commend him, as well as commending Mr. Lampson for this legislation, which he has worked on for a very long time and which makes very good sense for the American people. I also thank Mr. Markey for his extraordinary leadership on this issue as well.  
   The choice that we have before us today, my colleagues, is a simple one. The price at the pump is one that is a problem and challenge to the paycheck-to-paycheck economic security of America's families. It must be brought down. 
   There are two goals that we have in what we are doing here. One is to protect the consumer. That is a responsibility that we have. And in order to do that, to increase the supply of oil that will help bring down the price at the pump. 
   This week we have the SPR bill to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Next week we will have the speculation bill which will address the issue of undue, excessive speculation in the oil markets and what impact that may have on the price of oil. 
   In the course of this debate, I think it's important to remember some fundamentals, and one of them is the following. The United States Government is sitting on a stockpile of oil, 700 million barrels of oil. This fact is well known to you in the course of the debate, I know, 700 million barrels of oil. This is oil that the taxpayers have paid for and in some cases have paid a very expensive price for, and it is there. 
   The President is sitting on that oil. It's called the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, and it is reserved for an emergency. The difference of an opinion that we have here is, is it an emergency that the American people are facing the prices at the pump that they have and home heating oil and the rest. 
   We say it's an emergency, but an emergency that would justify our taking not more than, well, we would take it down to, I think it's 90 percent of what is in the SPR. The SPR, as I said, has 700 million barrels, and 97.5 percent of this stockpile, this government stockpile, is filled. It's fuller than it's ever been in history. It's an historic supply. 
   So what we are saying to the President is just take a small amount of that. Free our oil. This oil has been paid for by taxpayers' dollars. Free our oil, increase the supply on the market, and within 10 days the price at the pump can come down. 
   A while back, we asked the President to stop filling the reserve. Imagine, we were buying oil at top dollar this spring to keep filling this stockpile. The President refused. This Congress voted overwhelmingly in both Houses to stop filling the SPR, recognizing that as we pulled oil out of the supply and into the stockpile, we were affecting the price at the pump. 
   This time we are saying it hasn't come down enough, certainly not for America's consumers. We need you now to do the reverse, to follow up on that, not only not fill the stockpile, but to increase the supply in the marketplace. 
   Every time this has been done, and it has been done three times in the last 20 years. Every time this has been done, and you have seen the charts here, Mr. Markey has those charts. Every time it has been done, the price of oil has come down. 
   So it's a proven way to bring the price at the pump down. When the price of oil comes down in a very sound, market-oriented way, we will buy oil cheaper to replace this oil that we took out and sold at a higher price and make a profit on it. 
   It makes all the sense in the world to do it this way. Those who oppose this are using this argument that instead of releasing the oil from the stockpile, government-owned stockpile, paid for by the consumer and the taxpayer, instead of releasing this oil to increase the supply in the market, we should be drilling more. We should be drilling in protected areas. 
   Even the President has said that that is not any short-term fix. Everybody recognizes that if you drill, that it takes 10 years to affect the price at the pump, and only about 2 cents at that. 
   So instead of saying only drill, only drill and get a 2 percent benefit 10 years from now, we are saying release the oil from this stockpile so that we can have a price at the pump result in 10 days, not 10 years. This is part of what we brought forth last week, too--use it or lose it. 
   Democrats support drilling. It's important in this debate to recognize that there are 68 million acres in our country which have permits and are ready to go for drilling. So we are saying to the oil companies, use it or lose it. Use your permits, drill for oil, but don't say I don't want to drill there where I have an environmental permit to drill, I want to go drill in some protected area, which is going to take longer for me to do, by the way. And the reason I'm not drilling so much where I'm allowed to is I don't have the equipment to do it. 
   See this for the hoax on the American people that it is. Yes, we are saying drill, use it or lose it as a way to increase domestic supply. We are also saying you increase domestic supply by investing in renewable energy resources, wind, solar, biofuels and the rest. No less a stalwart Republican than T. Boone Pickens is saying, ``I'm for everything.'' He's for drilling, he's for wind, he's for solar, he's for natural gas, he's for alternatives to foreign oil. We must reduce our dependence on foreign oil. It is a national security issue, it is an economic issue, not only for our economy but for the economics of America's families and for our consumers. 
   It is an environmental health issue to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and especially foreign oil. And it is a moral issue, because it has an impact on how we preserve our planet. That's why we have so many evangelicals supporting our efforts for renewables rather than fossil fuels. 
   So it is an important debate that we are having, because this argument that we shouldn't have oil today on the market, which will reduce the price in 10 days, but, instead, should be drilling where we are not allowed to and have a 2-cent saving in 10 years, think of it. This isn't a reason, this is an excuse, and it's an excuse for a failed energy policy. 
   It is the energy policy of the Bush administration and some of the Republicans in Congress, but not all, because many have voted in an enlightened way on this subject. This is an excuse for their failed energy policy. These are the same people, George Bush and Dick Cheney, who brought us over $4 a gallon gasoline at the pump. And now they are saying more of the same. 
   We are saying a new direction. And now we can drill, we can increase the supply, we can invest in renewables, we can end speculation, we can protect the consumer. As we do all of that, including the drilling, we can do it now, and we can do it right. The fastest way to help the consumer is to release the oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, but let's think of that as a government stockpile paid for by taxpayers' dollars that a small amount can have a big impact. 
   I urge my colleagues to go down the same path you did before when overwhelmingly over 300 Members of the House and Senate, Democrats and Republicans alike, voted to stop filling the SPR. Now let's just say there is so much in there, you can spare some to help the consumer. Do it right. Do it right now. 
   I urge a ``yes'' vote on this very important legislation. 
   Again, I would commend Mr. Markey, Mr. Barrow and Mr. Lampson, the author of this legislation. I thank you, Mr. Lampson, for your leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (RECOVERY REBATES AND ECONOMIC STIMULUS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - January 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for his kind and generous remarks. I especially thank him for his tremendous leadership, because under his leadership we are able today to vote on something that is relevant to the lives of the American people. 
   I commend Leader BOEHNER for his leadership as well. It has been a privilege to work in a bipartisan way to help relieve the pain of the American people. 
   For a long time now, homemakers, homeowners, and hard workers across America have known that there is a problem in our economy. They've had a hard time making ends meet, living paycheck to paycheck, with rising costs for gasoline, for groceries, for health care, you name it. American families felt this pain early on, and they knew that our economy was facing perhaps a serious downturn, but a downturn nonetheless. 
   On December 7, actually, I remember because my seventh grandbaby was born that day, Thomas Vincent, on December 7 we had a meeting, a bipartisan meeting with leaders from the business community, economists, leaders of industry, of labor, the academic community, people representing workers in the diversity of our country, and we talked about what we could do to head off a serious downturn in our economy. We knew from that meeting that it would have to be timely, that we would need to act quickly; that it would have to be targeted, that it would put money in the pockets of hardworking Americans who would immediately spend the money to meet their needs, inject demand into the economy to help create jobs; and it had to be temporary. The tax incentives in the package would have to be such that they would have to be acted upon in this calendar year so that the full impact could be felt for job creation and stimulus to the economy. Previous stimulus packages have not had that. They had a 2-year period of time in which the incentives would work, and therefore they lost impact. Previous stimulus packages did not have a cap on who received the rebate, or the tax cut as Mr. Bachus calls it. And so, therefore, a lot of money went into the hands of people who never really spent it and injected it back into the economy. 
   But this is timely. We're acting very quickly, not hastily, but quickly and firmly in a disciplined way on a package that has as its one criterion for anything that's in the package, is it stimulus, is it stimulus, and does it meet the test of enabling us to move in a timely fashion, targeted and temporary. 
   I was pleased that, working with my colleague, Mr. Boehner, and with the administration under the leadership of Secretary Paulson, that we were able to come to terms on how we would proceed. We could only do that because of the extraordinary respect in which Mr. Rangel is held, and Mr. McCrery, and them working cooperatively as they have for a while. We could only include in the package those features that related to the subprime crisis because of the extraordinary reputation of the distinguished chairman of the Financial Services Committee, Mr. Frank, understanding the terms under which we wanted to proceed, and respecting his expertise in those areas and those of Mr. Bachus as well. So, this has been bipartisan in terms of committee, in terms of working together over time, and bipartisan in terms of the leadership working together a short time frame, benefiting from the work that had gone before us. 
   It's important in this package to have a level of discipline, because one of the features that the economists, business leaders, labor leaders, et cetera, had told us in the course of all these discussions is you don't want to do anything in a stimulus package that will hinder your ability to act in a recovery. 
   So, it's important that this bill not get overloaded. I have a full agenda of things I would like to have in the package, but we have to contain the price, and in doing so, you have to establish your priorities. And the priority we had was to put $28 billion in the hands of 35 million families who had never received a rebate or a child tax credit before, and to do it quickly. That was our priority. Because if you do, to do that, again, is true stimulus. All the other things, while worthy and important, again, we made a decision, because that's where we could find our common ground. But if we heap too much on top of that package, it will then take us deeply into debt. 
   And PAYGO is important to us. And while in recession the PAYGO law allows for us to take certain initiatives, you don't want to abuse that by again adding to the deficit for items in the package that are not strictly timely, temporary, targeted or stimulus. 
   So, I think we have a good product here. It's all a compromise. It's all about decisions and priorities that have to be established. But it also speaks to the fact that we really do, hopefully, we need to work in a bipartisan way, to have a very aggressive initiative for job creation in our country. And we've already laid the framework for that in a bipartisan way. We've had overwhelming votes in this Congress, for example, on SCHIP, expanding health care to many more children in America. Health care needs health-trained professionals at every aspect of the delivery of health care. So, it creates good-paying jobs in America when you expand health care accessibility to Americans. 
   Education, innovation, all of those are about keeping us competitive, keeping us number one; again, creating good-paying jobs in America so that we prevail in the global marketplace. 
   And we talk about infrastructure, that we must have a package for rebuilding our roads, our highways, mass transit, taking initiatives for new projects as well, creating good-paying jobs in America. And global warming. We, as a generation and as a Congress, will be judged by posterity as to how we deal with the issue of a global climate crisis. This affords for us a whole new world of job opportunity where we're all on the ground floor, largely, where we go into urban America and our inner cities or we go into rural America and create good-paying green jobs that are new. 
   It's about being entrepreneurial about this, to thinking in new and different ways about how our decisions have to be seen in the light of ``do they create good-paying jobs in America.'' 
   So, again, while we stand ready to present a stimulus, if need be, we want to, in the long term, not that long term but longer term than a stimulus, create jobs to avoid such a downturn and, in any event, raise the living standard of the American people. And so, whether it's about this rebate and  what it means to these hardworking Americans who are facing rising costs and need help to live paycheck to paycheck, and I'm telling you, that's not just the working poor, that is the middle class in America. This is a middle-class tax rebate bill. We call it the Recovery, Rebate and Economic Stimulus for the American People Act. It targets the middle class and those who aspire to it. And for that same middle class, we must have an ongoing aggressive initiative for job creation so that across the board America's families have the confidence that they need. Because in a downturn, what you need is confidence. You need consumer confidence. You need confidence in the markets. And as Mr. Rangel always tells me, a message of confidence is given to the American people when Members of Congress can work with the administration in a bipartisan way to put the American people first. 
   So, I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I thank Mr. Frank, Mr. Rangel, Mr. McCrery, and Mr. Bachus, and to my colleagues, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Vel&#225;zquez, and Charlie Rangel, again, for all their leadership in terms of the territories, which is a very important part of this legislation. 
   I think it's a good day for us here. And let's hope that the Senate will take its lead from us and be disciplined, focused, fiscally responsible, and act in a timely, temporary, and targeted way on behalf of meeting the needs of the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 4040, CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding time, and for his hard work and great leadership in bringing this important legislation to the floor in a way that is bipartisan and shows the full support of this Congress as a Congress for America's children. 
   It is a special day for us because this bill is long overdue, and took a ``New Direction Congress'' to work it out and bring it to the floor in the form that it is in, which is to protect America's children. 
   But it is a special day for another reason, and that is because one of the main authors of the bill, Congressman Rush of Illinois, is back with us today. We are all family, and to have our family member return in good health is really something very special to us. 
   He worked so hard to pass this bill the end of last year, so that before Christmas, families across America could know that Congress cared about our children. The bill passed on a suspension calendar with a strong bipartisan vote with the support of community groups that care about children. 
   So Mr. Dingell, thank you for making this come to fruition, especially at a time when Mr. Rush could be back here with us so that we could say to him, in person, thank you for your leadership for America's children. We love you. You make it a very special day for us when we can do something for America's children and to do so in your presence. 
   Thank you, Mr. Rush, for your leadership. 
   This bill is necessary because, does anybody not know that I am a grandmother? 
   My husband always says, I just wonder how far into your speech it is before you start talking about your grandchildren. 
   But as a mother of five and a grandmother of seven, and a person who observes a wider range of children in our extended family, I know that we, moms and parents, want to do everything they can to do the best for their children. But we have our limitations. We have to depend on the Federal Government, and government in general, to protect our children from chemicals that may be harmful to their health or even worse than that. 
   And so, the last several years, even this past year have been called the year of recalls. The Year 2007 was dubbed the ``Year of the Recall'' by Consumer's Union. 
   More than 45 million toys and children's products were recalled last year, and some were found to contain nearly 200 times the legal amount of lead. Toys, toy trains, costumes, magnets, because and even baby bottles were among the common, everyday items found to be harmful to our children. 
   What is a parent to do? 
   This year dangerous toy and product recalls are happening in even swifter rates. The number of recalled toys and children's products is up 22 percent over the first half of last year. What is a parent to do? 
   Most of the toys that were recalled should never have found their way on to the shelves of local toy stores. Over the last several years, at the same time of these record toy recalls, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, which is charged with testing toys before they end up in the homes of our children, have been starved for resources. The agency lost 15 percent of its work force between 2004 and 2007. And in 2007, even the Commission's Acting Director complained that there was only one lonely toy tester at the Commission. 
   Today, at this legislation, we strengthen the ability, our ability to prevent those toys from even getting to market, get products off the shelves more quickly, and increase fines and penalties for violating product safety laws. 
   The legislation eliminates lead beyond a minute amount in toys and other products intended for children under 12 years of age. It also bans toxic phthalates in children's toys and child care articles. 
   Today the ``New Direction Congress'' is asserting our responsibility to protect children from dangerous toys. Dangerous toys. Think of that. Shouldn't that be an oxymoron? It should be a given that toys are not dangerous. Sometimes they can be used inappropriately. Somebody can fall with a toy, et cetera, but if it has within its very make-up something that is harmful to the health of children, something is wrong with this picture. 
   The Consumer Products Safety Improvement Act, which is what this bill is, of 2008, is the result of the leadership of many in Congress. I again want to acknowledge the leadership of Chairman Dingell and Bobby Rush. I also want to acknowledge Ranking Member Barton for his cooperation in bringing this bill to the floor. I would like to acknowledge other leaders on the Energy and Commerce Committee, Congressman Waxman, Congresswoman Schakowsky, Congresswoman Diana DeGette, and also Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, not on that committee, but a person on the Appropriations Committee who has some jurisdiction over this issue, and who has been relentless, a relentless grandmother on behalf of children. 
   So I would salute this as a bipartisan effort on behalf of our Nation's most valuable resource, our children, because it is our sacred duty to protect them. 
   We began this Congress calling it to order in the name of all of America's children. Today we are honoring some of our promise to them by keeping their toys and children's products safe. 
   Again, Madam Speaker, I urge our colleagues to give an overwhelming unanimous vote on support for this important legislation for the children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CALLING ON CHINA TO END HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES PRIOR TO THE OLYMPICS -- (House of Representatives - July 30, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his comments. I thank him for bringing this legislation, salute him and the ranking member of the committee, Congresswoman  Ros-Lehtinen, for her ongoing persistent advocacy for human rights throughout the world. I thank you for you leadership as well, Mr. Berman, Mr. Chairman. 
   I rise today in strong support of this resolution calling on the Chinese government to end its human rights abuses in China and Tibet so that the Olympic Games can take place in an atmosphere that honors the Olympic traditions of freedom and openness. 
   I thank Chairman Berman again and Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen for bringing the resolution to the floor. With passage of this resolution, the House will speak with one voice about the conditions in China and Tibet on the eve of the Olympic Games. 
   Madam Speaker, the Olympic charter states that the Olympics should promote ``a peaceful society concerned with the preservation of human dignity.'' The reality is that human rights abuses committed by Chinese authorities are worsening in the weeks and months before the Olympics. 
   In exchange for the privilege of hosting the Olympic Games, the Chinese government made commitments on freedom of the press, human rights and on the environment. Many of these commitments have been violated repeatedly and blatantly. Both foreign and domestic journalists have been harassed, threatened and detained. Human rights defenders and activists have been arrested and imprisoned at an alarming rate in recent months. 
   The dialog between the Chinese government and the representatives of His Holiness, the Dalai Lama, have gone nowhere. Thousands of peaceful Tibetans still languish in prisons in the aftermath of the protest that began in March. Chinese authorities have stepped up the so-called ``patriotic education'' campaigns that require Tibetan Buddhists, regardless of their true thoughts, to publicly denounce the Dalai Lama. 
   The violations of human rights do not end on China's borders. On the international front, the Chinese government continues to support the genocidal regime in Sudan and the military junta in Burma. Their actions run counter to our interests of promoting peace, stability and morality in the world. The situation in the Sudan would change drastically if the Chinese government would cooperate at the U.N. and send that message to the Sudanese government. 
   It is in this context that President Bush is traveling to China to attend the Olympic Games. To my knowledge, a sitting President of the United States has never attended an Olympics on foreign soil. That gives the President tremendous leverage with the Chinese government as he gives them tremendous face by attending the opening ceremonies of the Olympics. 
   I have no objection to the President attending the Olympic Games. I do hope, though, that with all of the face, for lack of a better word, that the Chinese government will receive by his participation in the opening ceremony, that he will take the opportunity to use his leverage to speak very forcefully to the Chinese regime, not only about human rights in China and Tibet, of course that is a top priority, but also about the barriers to U.S. products going into China, about the dangers that are foisted upon our children and the American people by the lack of safety and the production of food. 
   It is important for the body to know, and I am sure others have made the point, that the President recently met with some advocates for human rights in China and Tibet. I was very proud that they had the opportunity to meet with the President in the White House, and I thank the President for doing that. 
   But shortly after the President had the meeting, two of these people were detained on the way to a meeting with our colleagues, Congressman Smith and Congressman Wolf, FRANK WOLF of Virginia. 
   So the message has to be, I think, clear to the Chinese government. We have concerns about jobs. We have concerns about U.S. jobs fleeing to China without opening of their markets to our products. We have concerns about human rights in China and Tibet. We want to work with the Chinese government to fight global warming. There are areas where we can have a level of cooperation. 
   But if we give them that level of respect by having the President of the United States be at the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games, it is important for the President, when he is there, to deliver a strong message of concerns that we have in our country. 
   I hope that we can have a brilliant future with China. Mr. Smith and Mr. Wolf and I have been trying for over 20 years, haven't we, been making this fight on human rights, as well as others in this body, and our dear friend, Mr. Lantos, as well. 
   They told us 19 years ago, at the time of Tiananmen Square, if only we would engage economically with China, then human rights would improve there, democratization would take place, markets would be open to our products. But that just really hasn't happened. 
   Here we are 19 years later. The Olympic Committee honored China by giving them the opportunity to host these Olympic Games. The President of the United States is honoring them by attending the opening ceremonies. It is very important that the opportunity afforded to China be met with responsible behavior on their part in terms of human rights in China and Tibet. 
   So I hope that the President will not miss the opportunity, that historic, that has wide-ranging consequences, and which will be viewed with such favorability should he deliver the message when he is there. 
   The President is well known for his support of freedom of religion. That is a commitment that he has made throughout the world, and it is one that I hope that he will carry with him to China as well.     
   With that, again, I thank the gentleman and Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen for bringing this to the floor. 
   I am very thrilled that the Congress of the United States will speak with one voice on this important subject. I know the struggle for human rights is a long one, but we did not expect the Olympics to result in a situation where they were worsened in China instead of improved, as was the promise. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EXPRESSING SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE IMMEDIATE AND UNCONDITIONAL RELEASE OF DAW AUNG SAN SUU KYI -- (House of Representatives - October 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me this time and thank him for his leadership in bringing this resolution to the  floor. I thank him for mentioning my name in the same breath with Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. You compliment me, Mr. Chairman. You and I know that the sacrifice she has been making for so many years is incomparable, really, in the world. 
   For many years, many of us, Chris Smith, Dana Rohrabacher, John Porter when he was here, worked on this issue for a very long time. John Porter and Chairman Lantos co-chaired the Human Rights Caucus, and the issue of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and repression in Burma was and has been an important priority for them. 
   So today we are coming together again following this horrible crackdown in Burma, and I am pleased to rise in support of the resolution condemning that crackdown on the peaceful protesters in Burma and calling for the immediate release of Burma's democracy leader, a Nobel Peace Prize recipient, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. I thank Mr. Lantos for bringing this resolution to the floor. 
   Daw Aung San Suu Kyi for many decades has been a leader on this issue. She won the last democratic election in 1990 and has spent the last decade under house arrest away from her husband and her two children. Who in the world could have the courage and strength that she has had? When her husband was ill and was in the United Kingdom for his treatment, she could not visit him. When he passed away, she could not attend his funeral. Imagine the personal sacrifice of this great leader. Imagine the turmoil within her. But she understood that the democracy for all of the people of Burma was more important than the personal needs that she had for her family. What greatness. 
   She has seen her supporters beaten, tortured and killed; and, yet, she has never responded with hatred and violence. All she ever asked for was peaceful dialogue. 
   Others have mentioned some of the provisions of the legislation, and I think it is important to continue to mention them: condemn the crackdown. Mr. King particularly emphasized the role of China in all of this. And, yes, we should act in a bipartisan way, Mr. King. 
   This resolution demands that the People's Republic of China and other countries that provide political and economic support for Burma's military junta end such support. 
   This resolution firmly insists that Burma's military regime begin a meaningful tripartite political dialogue with Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the National League for Democracy, and ethnic nationalities; demands the immediate unconditional release of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, detained monks and other political prisoners and prisoners of conscience; calls on governments around the world, including the nations of the European Union and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, to severely tighten their sanctions regime against Burma; calls on the United Nations Security Council to immediately pass a resolution imposing multilateral sanctions on Burma's military regime. 
   Of course, this cannot happen without China's cooperation on the Security Council. That is why their role is so important. It is also important because of the role they have played in propping up the junta. I am disappointed but not surprised that China is using its veto power at the United Nations Security Council to block the condemnation of the recent crackdown. For many years, the Chinese Government has helped prop up the Burmese, I think of them as thugs, but the Burmese regime, by blocking multilateral sanctions and providing substantial economic and military assistance to the Burmese Government. 
   China is Burma's largest trading partner, and it is estimated that China controls more than 60 percent of the Burmese economy and has provided close to $3 billion in military aid since the early 1990s.     
   Simply said, the Burmese regime would not have the strength and power that it has absent the support of China. We're calling on China to use its influence to bring about a political negotiation with the pro-democracy activists. This is a golden opportunity for China to show that it can be a force for peace and stability in the world. 
   In the last few weeks, we all know that we've seen an extraordinary turn of events in Burma. This has been there for a long time. The repression has been there for a long time, but in these last few weeks, courageous people led by Buddhist monks have taken to the streets to stand up to a corrupt, illegitimate military regime that has repressed the country for nearly 20 years. 
   The ruthless crackdown is outrageous, and the international community must not stand by while peaceful protesters are arrested, beaten and murdered. 
   Let there be no doubt that the United States stands with the freedom-seeking people of Burma in their just cause. 
   President Bush is to be commended for supporting tougher sanctions on those responsible for the gross violations of human rights. We can and should go further in bringing diplomatic pressure to bear on the regime. I know we all look forward to working closely with the President on this as we go forward. 
   And so I again commend Aung San Suu Kyi as years ago, she called on individuals, organizations and governments to support Burma's democracy movement, and at that time, she said please use your liberty to promote ours. 
   Today, on the floor of the United States House of Representatives, we are doing just that. I commend Aung San Suu Kyi for her courage and her leadership. The people of Burma are rising up and demanding their country back. The world must meet this challenge to our conscience. 
   I thank again Mr. Lantos and Mr. Smith and all of my colleagues, in a bipartisan way, in support of democracy in Burma. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - December 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, this is a very important day for our country, a day in which this Congress can declare itself a Congress for the future, a Congress for America's children. 
   Earlier today, some of you saw me reference this baseball signed by Bobby Thomson: ``The shot heard round the world,'' October 3, 1951, a historic day in baseball. When he signed this baseball, he referenced a phrase used by Ralph Waldo Emerson referencing the shot fired at Concord, which began the Revolutionary War, the fight for American independence. If Bobby Thomson could reference a shot heard round the world, we should indeed be able to do it today. This vote on this legislation will be a shot heard round the world for energy independence for America. 
   I want to thank some of the people who made this possible. As many of you know, at the beginning of this Congress, our Chairs of the appropriate committees were tasked to prepare legislation to be ready to be introduced by the Fourth of July, our Independence Day. They did so, and on June 30, in preparation for the Fourth of July weekend, we introduced our legislation. 
   I want to begin by thanking Mr. Dingell for his exceptional leadership as Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee. This bill is about America's national security. Mr. Dingell has always been about that. He has dedicated his life, starting in World War II, in his public service for our country. Thank you, Mr. Dingell. 
   Another great veteran in this arena, Mr. Rangel, a veteran of the Korean War, was an important part of this legislation with the pay-fors from the Ways and Means Committee. Thank you, Mr. Rangel. 
   Earlier you heard from Mr. Oberstar and the important work he is doing with the greening of America's Federal buildings and many other resources. Thank you, Mr. Oberstar. Mr. Waxman of Oversight and Government reform; Mr. Miller of Education and Labor, where we are having our green jobs initiative; Mr. Rahall from Natural Resources, making an important contribution to this legislation; Mr. Lantos from Foreign Affairs; Mr. Gordon from Science, the Science and  Technology Committee has been central to this legislation; Mr. Peterson from the Agriculture Committee. America's farmers will fuel America's independence. We will send our energy dollars to the Midwest, not the Middle East. Congresswoman Vel&#225;zquez from Small Business, where small businesses will be the incubator of this new economy. Thank you, Chairwoman Vel&#225;zquez. And Congressman Markey of the Select Committee, thank you also for your tremendous leadership for over 30 years on this issue. 
   I mention all of my colleagues, these chairmen, not only to salute them, but to say they started a process over a series of months where practically every member of these 11 committees of Congress had an opportunity, Democrats and Republicans alike, to weigh in on the initial legislation, which was introduced in time for the Fourth of July, as promised, and which was passed by this Congress in the first week of August; and it is the follow-up on that legislation that we are voting on today. 
   It is a part of our first 100 hours. As we near the end of this session of Congress, we can harken back to that first 100 hours, our Six for '06. Our first piece of legislation was about how we protect America, passing the 9/11 Commission recommendations. I am so pleased that that was passed with strong bipartisan support in this House and was signed by the President. 
   The minimum wage was passed with strong bipartisan support in this House of Representatives and was signed by the President. 
   Making college affordable, the biggest package for college affordability since the GI Bill of Rights in 1944, passed by the Congress, signed into law by the President. 
   The biggest legislation for ethics reform in the history of the Congress, bipartisan majority, strong overwhelming support, and signed into law. 
   In the course of time, passing Mr. Gordon's bill, our commitment to competitiveness to keep America number one, the Innovation Agenda, the COMPETES Act, overwhelming majority, bipartisan majority, signed into law by the President. 
   I mention all of these because they have bearing on what we are doing today. It is about our national security, it is about jobs and the economic security of our country. It is about the environment, and therefore it is a health issue. It is a moral issue. With all that I have said, that is why we have scientists and evangelicals, we have business and labor, we have the environmental community, all strongly supporting this legislation. 
   And here are some of the reasons why. I will give you their words. Over 20 generals have signed a letter saying that we have to move in this direction in terms of reversing global warming. But, very specifically, the other day we heard from Admiral Denny McGinn, and he said this: ``Our dependence on foreign oil is a clear and present danger to Americans. Your vote for tough fuel economy standards is a vote for increasing our safety and our well-being.'' This is a national security issue. 
   It is an issue that relates to our environment and therefore the health of our children. That is why the Pew Charitable Trusts for Fuel Efficiency wrote: ``If the House and Senate finally approve this and the President signs it, they will have done more for consumers at the pump than any Congress or administration since the 1970s.'' They were referencing also the fact that the consumers will save $700 to $1,000 as a result of this bill, per year. And over a period of time until 2020, they will save $22 billion. That is why the Consumer Federation of America is supporting this bill. It is about American jobs. 
   The president of the Alliance of American Automobile Manufacturers wrote: ``We believe this tough, national fuel economy bill will be good for both consumers and energy security. We support its passage.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (DRILL RESPONSIBLY IN LEASED LANDS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 17, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank him for his extraordinary leadership in bringing the most extensive drilling legislation to the floor of the House. Thank you, Mr. Rahall. 
   Because part of what we must do in order to bring down the price of energy to the American people is to increase domestic supply and to protect the consumer. And increasing domestic supply means that we must remove all doubt in the minds of those who wish to drill and those who want the drilling to take place that there are 68 million acres in the lower 48 States where drilling is allowed: ``Drill Responsibly in Leased Lands,'' the DRILL bill. 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the documentation of that amount of land. Thirty-three million of those acres are offshore. So the question is, why do you not want us to drill offshore? We do, in 33 million acres. Why do you not want us to drill on land? We do, in tens of millions more acres in the lower 48. 
   And then this bill takes us to Alaska, where the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska is a bigger source of oil than the ANWR, the refuge in Alaska. So why those who wish to make an argument here are saying we won't let you drill: No, we want you to drill. Why are you saying this is the law, they have to do it anyway? Well, they aren't because these lands are not drilled upon.  We're not getting the product from them. 
   So in order to protect the consumer and to increase domestic supply, we're talking about two things: We're talking about protecting the consumer with legislation to curb unnecessary, excessive and abusive speculation in the marketplace. That debate is going on in the Senate as we speak here right now and will come to the House soon. 
   Increasing domestic supply means facilitating drilling where it is allowed already--in tens of millions of acres across our country. It means investments in renewable resources, because that is part of our energy supply now and for the future. And it also means an immediate call upon the President to free our oil. Right now, the President is sitting on over 700 million barrels of oil. This is oil that has been bought and paid for by the American taxpayer and is warehoused in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. It is there for emergencies, and we have a national emergency in terms of the energy crisis in our country. 
   The Strategic Petroleum Reserve is 97.5 percent full, the fullest it has ever been in history. All we're asking the President to do is to take 10 percent of that oil and release it over time into the marketplace; increase the supply, reduce the price. 
   Ten days ago, we called upon the President to free our oil. If he had done so at that time, we would already have an immediate impact at the pump, 10 days. Release the oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, 10 days later we would have had an impact at the pump. 
   What our colleagues are suggesting about going beyond the areas that already have permits all ready to go will take 10 years to get to the pump. Even the President, who is advocating drilling in the protected areas of OCS, even he said in his press conference the other day, this is not an immediate fix. This will not lower the price at the pump in the near future. Even the President has said that. 
   So this is a false argument. It's an argument trying to be used to divert attention from the fact that President Bush has had a failed energy policy for the last 7.5 years. If he had acted earlier, we would be reaping the benefits of our investments and renewables. But there has been a resistance in the Congress and within the White House to these changes. 
   So here we are today at a moment of truth. The truth is that there is a great deal more oil to be exploited in our country. The truth is that it is not being exploited, and this bill would encourage that exploitation. It would encourage those who have the leases to use it or lose it, and if they don't want to exploit the situation, to let someone else drill and produce oil and gas in those acres. 
   It also says that in Alaska we should be drilling in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska. Instead of having a fight over a protected area, let's go to an area that is already permitted for leasing and has more oil in the first place. The bill also says, when we do that, we must bring that product to market. 
   So let's complete the pipeline--it's 5 miles there to complete the pipeline--and then build the natural gas pipeline to take natural gas from Alaska to the United States. The only reason that has not happened is because the President has not decided it should. 
   All of this is only a decision. We call upon the President to use the good offices of the President of the United States to encourage those who are in the final stages of decision making on this to move. And then the supply of energy to our country will be vast, and it will create probably a hundred thousand new jobs. Building the Alaska Pipeline, the Natural Gas Alaska Pipeline, would be the biggest infrastructure project in history. And all the President has to do is give the signal that this should be done. He hasn't in 7.5 years. This bill calls upon him to do so. 
   So when we drill, and when we bring the oil and gas down to our country, we are saying that none of this oil that is being produced can be exported to foreign countries. It is there not for the profit of these corporations, but to meet the energy demands of the American people. 
   Essential to all of this, though, is to ignore the false claims being made of the impact of drilling on these protected lands. Maybe the science and the technology one day will make that feasible, and we should always keep our minds open to that. But to say we have to go there--which will take much longer to bring product to market--is just a diversion from the matter at hand, which is, a failed policy in the White House. As Mr. Markey said, two oilmen in the White House, $4-plus a gallon at the pump. The President is sitting on 700 million barrels of oil that would bring down that price at the pump. 
   Free our oil, Mr. President. ``Use it or lose it'' to our oil companies. End speculation that is driving up the price. Protect the American consumer. Vote for the DRILL Act. 
   I thank Mr. Rahall again for his leadership.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EMPLOYEE FREE CHOICE ACT -- (House of Representatives - March 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Chairwoman, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I thank him for his great leadership, along with Chairman George Miller, in bringing this important legislation to the floor. 
   I proudly rise in support of the Employee Free Choice Act. I salute again the leadership of the committee. This legislation has long enjoyed bipartisan support; it took a Democratic majority to give us a chance to vote on it on the floor. 
   The Employee Free Choice Act is the most important labor law reform legislation of this generation. But this legislation is about more than labor law: it is about basic workers' rights. It is about majority rule. It is about ending discrimination and harassment in the workplace over organizing, and it is about protecting jobs. Under this bill, when a majority of workers say they want a union, they will get a union. 
   It is important to note, Madam Chair, that many of the benefits all workers, union members and others, all workers enjoy today are the results of the struggles of organized labor. Their victories have not just benefited union workers, but all workers. Millions of those who have never had the chance to join a union enjoy better wages, safer workplaces, and greater rights because of the battles fought by union members. Unions have helped make America the most prosperous, most productive Nation in the world with a vibrant middle class, so essential to our democracy. Organized labor has helped put America in the lead. 
   Today, 57 million workers say that they would join a union if they had a chance, to be part of an effort to keep America number one. And many, many hundreds of thousands of employers throughout this country work cooperatively with their unions representing their employees. In fact, this bill is very fair to employers, giving them recourse should they question the validity of the signatures on the card check. 
   The Employee Free Choice Act puts democracy back in the workplace so that the decision to form a union can be made by the employees that the union would represent. This is a standard right that we routinely demand for workers around the world. And it illustrates not only a respect for workers but a commitment to democracy. We should accept no less a standard here in America. 
   Many people, including the NAACP, Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, many religious organizations support this legislation because it is fair. It has been cosponsored by 226 House Democrats. It has the support of 69 percent of the American people. 
   Democrats believe that we must make our economy fairer, and we began in the first 100 hours by passing the minimum wage bill with a strong bipartisan vote. 
   Today, we will take the next step with a strong bipartisan vote to ensure that America's working families have the right to organize, because the right to organize means a better future for them and for all of us. It means a future that is economically and socially just. It is that economic and social justice that drew so many religious organizations in support of this legislation, a future where the workplace is safe, a future where retirement is secure. 
   Madam Chair, every day when we begin the Congress, we begin with a pledge to the flag and how proud we are to do that. And we all take great pride in pledging the flag, to very clearly enunciate ``under God,'' ``one Nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.'' That is the pledge we make every morning, and we pledge it under God, liberty and justice for all. 
   Well, it is I think a disservice to that pledge and a dishonor to God whom we invoke in that, if we don't do in our work here, work that promotes liberty and justice for all. And that is what this bill does. It is about justice for all: all who want to express themselves in a way so they can bargain collectively, so that workers have the strength and the leverage to strengthen our middle class, to reach the fulfillment for their families, to make our democracy stronger. 
   I believe that this bill, the Employee Free Choice Act, is an honest continuation of the pledge that we make in the morning for liberty and justice for all. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EMERGENCY EXTENDED UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding and for his outstanding leadership on this issue. He has been a relentless and persistent advocate for America's working families, for hard workers in our country who, through no fault of their own, and in large measure because of the poor economic policies of the Bush administration, have lost their job. 
   Mr. Speaker, it is said, and it's been said directly by George Bernard Shaw, that it is the mark of a truly intelligent person to be moved by statistics. My colleagues have made the case for why we need this unemployment insurance, and I want to address once again, as they have, some of the statistics and see if it is the mark of truly intelligent people to respond to that. 
   Today we have the opportunity to help 3.8 million Americans who are out of work and their families in large part because of the disastrous economic policies of the White House and the Republicans in Congress. 
   There are 3.8 million Americans for whom 13 weeks of the unemployment insurance system, a system, as the gentleman indicated, that they have paid for, could mean not losing a home or a job or skipping meals or needed health care. Today we have that opportunity to provide that help. 
   More statistics. 
   In the Bush economy, gas prices have skyrocketed to $4 a gallon. One in ten Americans are at risk of losing their homes, and even more families are seeing the value of their greatest financial assets, their homes, plummet. 
   More statistics. 
   On Friday, we received the alarming news that since the beginning of the year, our Nation has lost more than 325,000 jobs, including 49,000 in the month of May alone. 
   The Nation's unemployment rate has risen to 5.5 percent, the biggest monthly increase since 1986. In two decades, last Friday on that day, it jumped 0.5 percent to 5 1/2 percent. 
   On that same day, by the way, my colleagues, the price per barrel of oil increased by over $11 in that 1 day. In the 1990s, in 1998, the price per barrel was that exact same figure, just over $11. 1998, price per barrel of oil, $11-plus. Last Friday, price per barrel jumped, increased over $11 to over $130 per barrel.     
   So this is the economic situation in which these families find themselves. They have been hardworking, played by the rules, paid into the system, paid into the system for occasions like this where there's a downturn in the economy, and they lose their jobs through no fault of their own. And the Republicans want to make them look like charity cases. 
   These are strong people. They are the backbone of America. We have a responsibility to them. And if they are not moved by statistics, as George Bernard Shaw says any intelligent person should be, perhaps you would be moved by their personal stories. 
   This extension of unemployment benefits will help people like Kathy Henry. She was laid off her job at an advertising company last August. In February, her unemployment benefits ran  out. As she says, ``I must have had 100 interviews, and no one wants to hire me.'' Many times people think the people that are being interviewed for these jobs are overqualified. ``An extension of unemployment benefits would give me more time to look for a job,'' Kathy says. 
   And Liz Waller of Missouri, she just has 3 weeks of unemployment benefits left. She said, ``Absolutely, an extension would make a big difference for me. I'm dying to get back to work.'' I'm dying to get back to work, ``but I've done interview after interview and there are just way too many job candidates out there. I just keep getting told I'm overqualified.'' 
   There is a concern on the part of some employers that as people continue to look for work and look for jobs at lower pay, that if they hire them, then they will leave when they can find a job at higher pay with an upturn in the economy. 
   This isn't about people sitting on their butts back home saying, goody, I'm getting an unemployment check; now I can really look my family in the eye and say I'm providing. These people want to provide for their families. To imply anything else is an insult to these millions of people who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own and, in large measure, because of the Bush administration's failed economic policies. 
   Let's think about our veterans. This legislation is especially important to our returning military veterans. A recent government report prepared for the Veterans Affairs Department found that young veterans earn less and have a harder time finding work than do civilians in the same age group. The percentage of veterans not in the labor force--because they couldn't find jobs, stopped looking for work because they couldn't find jobs, or went back to school--jumped to 23 percent in 2005 from 10 percent in the year 2000. 
   Our veterans come home; they can't find work. Some of them need this unemployment insurance, and the Republicans are saying, ``Just say no.'' 
   Extending unemployment benefits not only helps those who are looking for work, it stimulates the economy. According to the Congressional Budget Office, it is one of the most cost-effective and fast-acting ways to stimulate the economy because the money is spent quickly. For every $1 spent on unemployment benefits, $1 spent generates $1.64 in new economic demand. Stimulates the economy. 
   All Americans who work pay unemployment insurance, pay into a trust fund for a rainy day. The rainy day is here. Today, across the country and for millions of Americans, that rainy day is here. Congress should ensure that those who paid into the system for the benefits now can receive them, and we can do this by passing this legislation today. 
   Mr. Speaker, the issue and the debate is not a partisan one. All Americans are feeling serious and deep economic pain. The people who will benefit from this are Democrats, Republicans, nonpartisans, Independents, people who aren't even interested in the political system. Yet, President Bush has issued a veto threat against this legislation, despite the fact that it will help--let's get back to our statistics--3.8 million Americans and, in fact, the entire economy. 
   And so I get back to our friend George Bernard Shaw. ``It is the mark of a truly intelligent person to be moved by statistics.'' 
   I thank Chairman McDermott for your important work on this subcommittee, on this legislation. I also want to commend the chairman of the full committee for being a truly intelligent man, moved by statistics, Chairman Rangel for his relentless work on this important legislation. To Mr. Levin as well and to all of the members of the committee, thank you for bringing this important legislation to the floor. 
   The American people are waiting to see if Congress will act to help them on a matter that is relevant to their economic survival at a difficult time in their lives for money that they paid into the system. I urge my colleagues to vote ``aye.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (HONORING THE LIFE OF ERNEST GALLO -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to a distinguished Californian, a great American, and a dear friend--Ernest Gallo, the patriarch of the family-owned E&J Gallo Winery. After 97 full years, Ernest Gallo passed away on March 6. 
   Ernest and his brothers grew up growing grapes in the vineyard of their father, an Italian immigrant. With the repeal of Prohibition in 1933, the Gallo brothers saw an opportunity to expand the family business. With just $900 in savings, a $5000 loan, and a wine recipe from the Modesto Public Library, Ernest and Julio began to build what would become the world's largest winemaking empire. 
   Ernest became the head of the family and the head of the business; he ran the business and Julio produced the wine. They worked throughout their lives to improve the quality of American grapes and deserve much of the credit for turning America into a wine-drinking country. 
   Their success resulted from passion and hard work. Ernest's entrepreneurial skills, instinctive business sense, and marketing ideas were extraordinary. He was as innovative, as he was visionary. 
   Ernest Gallo was also deeply generous--a patron of many charities, education and political campaigns. He funded the Ernest Gallo Clinic and Research Center at UCSF, one of world's preeminent academic centers for the study of the biological basis of alcohol and substance abuse. 
   Ernest deeply loved his family, especially his wife Amelia and his son David, who both preceded him in death, his son Joseph, and his four grandchildren. I extend my deepest sympathies to them all today.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (VIRGINIA TECH TRAGEDY -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, it is with great sadness that I rise to acknowledge that today our country has been struck by a terrible, terrible tragedy. The death toll at Virginia Tech now is reported to be over 30. This is the worst campus shooting in the history of our country. 
   As the Virginia Tech community struggles with the mourning and questioning that is certain to follow, the continued prayers of this Congress are with the students, their families, the faculty and the staff at Virginia Tech. 
   Leader Boehner joins me in extending our condolences to all concerned. And we ask for a moment of silence to be observed in this body. Would we all please rise to observe the moment of silence. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - September 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I thank the distinguished chairman for recalling to mind that opening day here when I accepted the gavel on behalf of the children of America, all of the children of America. And when we had this debate before in Congress, we talked about perhaps the children listening to this debate, hearing what Members of Congress were saying. And I expressed my hope that they would consider this the children's Congress. 
   I thank the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Rangel, for his leadership, and Mr. Stark, the Chair of the Health Subcommittee for helping to make this the children's Congress with this legislation. I thank the distinguished chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee for his tremendous leadership. 
   Mr. Rangel and Mr. Dingell went into the conversations with the Republican leadership in the Senate on this bill, true champions of America's children, knowing the facts and figures, the provisions, every provision of the bill with such authority as they argued on behalf of America's children so effectively that this legislation before us reflects many of the provisions that were in the House bill. We had to agree to the Senate language in terms of the $35 billion and the pay-for with the tax on tobacco. We had hoped that we could do more in terms of the money allocated for this purpose so that we could cover more children. 
   As I praise Mr. Dingell, I also want to acknowledge the fabulous leadership of Mr. Pallone, Chairman PALLONE of the Subcommittee on Health in the Energy and Commerce Committee. Because of their leadership, we were able to join Senator Reid, Chairman Baucus, Chairman Rockefeller, Ranking Member GRASSLEY, and Ranking Member HATCH in having a very bipartisan conversation on this subject. The people who were in the room that evening cared about passing a serious piece of legislation to expand health care for America's children. Not to expand the eligibility, as some on the other side of this House would have you believe, but to expand the number of kids who could be served if they met the eligibility. I, myself, had hoped that we could go beyond that and have eligible children in America who were legal immigrants. I was told that that would not fly in the Senate; that is a fight we will hold for another day. 
   But I am pleased as one who represents a minority majority district  from a majority minority State, where our State is blessed with a beautiful diversity, that of the additional children, nearly 4 million additional children covered, 67 percent of those children are minority children. Two-thirds of those children are children from families who are working hard, playing by the rules, lifting themselves out of poverty. They are the working poor in America. They are those who have aspired to the middle class to change that status and want to stay there. They simply don't make enough money to afford the private health insurance that this SCHIP initiative enables them to do. In fact, 72 percent, my colleagues might be interested to know that 72 percent of the children on this SCHIP program get their health coverage from private health insurance. 
   There are many misrepresentations, and I think they are probably unwitting because I assume that every person in this Congress cares about insuring as many children in our country as possible. How could it not be so? It is a deeply held value in our country that our children, as President Kennedy said, are our greatest resource and our best hope for the future. We must invest in them. We have a moral responsibility to do so. 
   When we had the debate on this bill and it first came to the floor, I was delighted in quoting a poem from my youth from Longfellow when he said, ``Between the dark and the daylight, when the night is beginning to lower, comes a pause in the day's occupation that is known as the children's hour.'' This is the children's hour for us in the Congress of the United States. 
   I quoted Longfellow then, I am reminded of the Bible tonight, and I speak with all of the sincerity and all of the hope to President Bush in the hope that he will change his mind to dig deeply into his heart and think about the children in America who don't have health care. Because, if not, I think that the President is giving new meaning to the words ``suffer, little children.'' Suffer, little children, if your parents can't afford health insurance, but they are working hard and they are not on Medicaid, but you will suffer because they are struggling to give you the best possible future. Suffer, little children, if your family has played by the rules and they have come to this country and you are here as a legal immigrant, because if you are sick, you will not get health care unless your parents can afford private insurance. Suffer, little children, if you are sick because you haven't had the proper nutrition, the proper prevention, the proper early intervention to your affliction, that you should go directly to the emergency room. But until you can get into that emergency room with enough of a serious illness, you will suffer. That 
   is just not right. 
   I would hope that the President would have had a change of heart and mind since he was Governor of Texas. When he was Governor of Texas, the SCHIP program there, in meeting the needs of the children of Texas, ranked 49th in the country; 49th in the country. Forty-eight States were doing better in meeting the health needs of their children as reflected in the outreach of the SCHIP program. Does that mean that Texas is the 49th wealthiest State in the Union, that the children in that State can all afford private health care? I don't think so, especially since that State, as with mine, is blessed with beautiful diversity and people, again, families who come to America, families who are part of our country, who are struggling to make ends meet to build a better future for their children. And building that better future is what our country is all about, and those newcomers make America more American. I heard the President say that. 
   We also heard him say that in this term of office that he would enroll every child who is eligible. I am sure our distinguished majority leader will bring that to the attention of this body. 
   What is interesting about this is that the President, if he persists in vetoing this bill, and by the way, you don't have to be a Latin scholar to know that ``veto'' means ``I forbid.'' With that pen, the President says, I forbid struggling families in America to have health care for their children. I forbid every child to be treated the same if they have an ailment. 
   How did any one of us decide that we were going to choose, you will have health care and you will not, in a country as great as ours when we are talking about our children? We are talking about our children. 
   So that is why the Conference of Mayors, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, a bipartisan organization, has overwhelmingly supported this legislation. That is why 43 Governors sent us a letter in July urging us to come to bipartisan agreement on legislation that would reauthorize SCHIP to care for many more children in our country. So when I hear the President say that we don't want to help children, we just want to do politics, I don't think he means that. So I hope he doesn't mean that he is going to veto the bill. 
   Senator Grassley said of the President: The President's understanding of our bill is wrong. I urge him to reconsider his veto message based on our bill, not something that someone on his staff told him wrongly is in the bill. Actually, he said, ``in my bill,'' Senator Grassley said. And Senator Hatch said: We are talking about kids who basically don't have coverage. I think the President has some pretty bad advice on this. 
   And I want to also commend Representative Ray LaHood and join you, Mr. Chairman, in saying what a privilege it is to call him ``colleague'' and to serve with him in the Congress, and thank him for his leadership in making a distinction between what is about the children and what is about politics in this House. 
   I talked about the mayors; I talked about the Governors. Nearly 300 organizations in our country, alphabetically from AARP to YMCA and everything alphabetically in between, Families USA. 
   I heard someone say the doctors should be making the decisions. The American Medical Association firmly supports this bill. The President of the AMA stood with us in a press conference today to support this legislation. The Society of Pediatrics. Everyone who has anything to do or cares about children in our country knows that this bill is the way to go. It is not everything I want, believe me, it is not the bill I would have written. I would have been far more generous and it would have been paid for in perhaps a different way, but it would have been paid for; because in terms of bringing benefits to our children, we have absolutely no intention of heaping debt onto them. 
   The Catholic Hospitals Association, again, the list goes on and on about who supports this bill. It is a long list; it is a comprehensive list. And I might include in it that, across the country, overwhelmingly, the American people know and respect the value of taking care of America's children, all of America's children. Two-thirds, two-thirds of those polled among Republican voters, 2-1, they support passing this legislation and having it signed into law. 
   Why does the President want to isolate himself from caring for America's children? Let's hope and let's pray that a very big, strong bipartisan vote tonight will send him a message to rethink his position. 
   I see a child in the Chamber. Our constant inspiration of what we do here is supposed to be about the future, and the future demands that we invest in health, the education, and the well-being of our children. 
   So, my colleagues, vote as if the children are watching. Please vote as if the children are watching, and please send them a message that this is the children's Congress.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding. And I want to commend you, Chairman Obey, and Mr. Murtha, for your tireless work on behalf of our men and women in uniform, and for bringing this critical legislation to the floor today. I am particularly interested in part two and three of the resolution. 
   We're all grateful for the fact that this will be the last time we will vote on an Iraq supplemental in the House of Representatives. Again, I thank the chairman and the chairman for their important work in this regard. 
   When the House completes its work today, we will have achieved three goals. First, we will have set a new direction in Iraq that will end this sad chapter in American history and bring our brave men and women home. That is necessary because President Bush, in his request to the Congress, insists on his failed course of action in Iraq, failed from day one; day one, when they went in and thought the war would end in one day. 
   They're asking us to trust the same impaired judgment that took us into this war on a false premise, without the proper training and equipment for our troops, without a strategy for success or an exit strategy from Iraq. 
   Isn't it sad that here we are, over 5 years later, over 4,000 of our precious treasure have died, tens of thousands of our men and women in uniform have been wounded, many of them permanently. Our reputation in the world has been greatly diminished, harming our ability to stop the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and eradicate disease and alleviate poverty, and all of the other leadership roles we have played in the past. It has come at a tremendous cost in dollars to American taxpayers, trillions of dollars, which have taken us deeply into debt, which has taken us into recession. More on that later. But think of the opportunity cost of that money, what we could have done to invest in education and health care. We will pay any price any time to protect the American people, but not to follow the whim of the impaired judgment of this Bush administration. 
   Only when we finally end this war can we rebuild our military. And that is another cost of this war, diminishing the capacity of our military to meet challenges and threats to our security wherever they may occur. When we do that, we will be able to refocus our attention on the real war on terror. 
   So this action that we are proposing today, a new direction in Iraq that will end the war, will rebuild our military, refocus on the real war on terror, and restore our reputation in the world. That is why this legislation directs that a redeployment begin within 30 days of this bill's enactment, and with the goal of being completed by December 2009, be completed by then. The new President will have the flexibility to bring our troops home safely, honorably, responsibly, and soon. 
   Essential to restoring our reputation in the world is to regain our moral authority, which has been lost in this war. That is why under the conditions of this legislation torture is banned. Thank you, Mr. Murtha, for your leadership on this subject. This condition has passed this House overwhelmingly in the defense appropriation bill. 
   It will also ban permanent bases in Iraq. This condition has passed this House overwhelmingly on any number of occasions, over 300 votes. Insist that the Iraqis pay their fair share for reconstruction. This is a relatively new condition, but a necessary one predicated on the fact that the Iraqis are amassing a budget surplus while we're going deeply in debt to pay for their reconstruction. We're saying if we put up a dollar, you put up a dollar, dollar for dollar to participate in their reconstruction. They have to be at least as interested in rebuilding Iraq as we are, especially when we are doing it to the neglect of our own reconstruction needs in the United States. 
   This legislation will also ensure that our military pays only its fair share for fuel. Do you know that in Iraq, we pay almost 2 1/2 times as much for gasoline, our military does, than the Iraqi people do? The Iraqi Government subsidizes the Iraqi people and makes our military pay more than double. And that's a new condition. 
   The conditions here calling for the cleaning up of waste, fraud and abuse in Iraq and reviewing of contracting passed by suspension. Over two-thirds of the House voted for this legislation that is contained in this condition. And require that any agreements with Iraq that commit U.S. forces for the protection of the Iraqi Government from an external force or from a civil war internally must be approved by the Congress of the United States. 
   Under the guise of a Status of Forces Agreement, the administration is committing the United States to a treaty without congressional approval. I remind the President of article I. Read the Constitution, Mr. President. 
   I believe that these provisions should receive bipartisan support. They have every time they have come to the floor. The only two new ones are about the cost of fuel and the dollar for dollar. 
   What we will also accomplish in this bill is to honor our responsibility to our men and women in uniform. I have been to the theater, to the war area, five or six times in the course of this military action, sometimes with Mr. Murtha, with Mr. Skelton, with Mr. Lantos, with our committee Chairs of jurisdiction.     
   And when we meet the young people there, they always say the same thing: ``What is going to happen to me when I go home?'' ``What is going to happen to me when I go home?'' 
   Some of the soldiers were telling me about their lives at home, and one of them was very quiet, and I said to him, ``What did you do before you came to Iraq?'' 
   He said, ``I was in high school, ma'am.'' He was in high school. He was a teenager with a gun over his shoulder. If that's necessary for our country's security, it has to happen. But this young man, a teenager, fighting that fight without any thought about what was going to happen to him when he came home. 
   Well, what we would like to say in the final amendment here is that when you come home, young man, we will thank you for your service to our country by sending you to college. That's what the student veterans have asked us for. That is what we have done for veterans in the past. That is what we owe these young people now. And in doing so, we will be doing a great thing not only for them but for our country because their education will be part of the economic recovery of our country. In the security of our country, they have led the way. In the economic recovery of our country, they will be in the lead. 
   Third in this bill, we will begin to address America's domestic priorities. We will address the deep economic pain facing many families. As I mentioned, this war, President Bush's war, which is enabled by the complicity of the Republicans in Congress, has taken us deeply into debt, which has taken us deeply into recession, and now has taken our economy to a place where we have record numbers of people unemployed. Today 7.6 million people are unemployed. Of these, 1.4 million Americans, jobless Americans, have been looking for work for over 6 months. And our economy has lost 260,000 jobs this year so far alone. These people need our help as they continue to seek work in this difficult economy. 
   Thank you, Mr. Obey, for including the unemployment insurance for America's workers in this legislation. 
   The contrast, I believe, Mr. Speaker, is clear. President Bush and the Republicans in Congress insist on a war without end in Iraq. Democrats, Independents, and Republicans across the country, but, sadly, too few Republicans in this House, are insisting on a New Direction. A New Direction that strengthens America's military by ending the war in Iraq. A New Direction that strengthens America's economy by investing in our veterans and our workers here at home. 
   We have said over and over again that one way to support our troops is to build a future worthy of their sacrifice. We can begin building that future worthy of their sacrifice by saying ``thank you'' to them and, when they come home, to send them to college. 
   I urge my colleagues to support the second and the third amendments that are being presented today. And in closing, I want to, as always, salute our men and women in uniform for their service, their sacrifice, their courage,  their patriotism, and with our commitment, again, to build a future worthy of their sacrifice. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - June 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlelady from California for yielding time and for her exceptional leadership. 
   Every family in America who has concern about the health and well-being of moms and dads, grandparents and children, brothers and sisters owes a deep debt of gratitude to Diana DeGette. With her stewardship of this bill, she has given us an opportunity to give hope to these many families across our country. 
   Every one of those families in America, every one of us is one telephone call or one diagnosis away from needing the benefits of stem cell research. I can't help but think that even those who are against this legislation today would want their family members, their child with diabetes, their husband with Parkinson's, their father with  Alzheimer's, their mother with breast cancer, to have the benefit of stem cell research. 
   Science is a gift of God to all of us. And science has taken us to a place that is Biblical in its power to cure, and that is the embryonic stem cell research. 
   Congresswoman DeGette not only worked on this legislation on its substance, she was generous with her personal experience to demonstrate the need for the bill. She understood that this legislation had to be bipartisan. And I commend Congressman Mike Castle of Delaware for his exceptional and courageous leadership on this legislation as well. 
   Today, we continue the debate. As Mr. Barton said, we've had this debate before. In fact, bipartisan majorities in both Houses of Congress have passed similar legislation before. Yet with his cruel veto pen, President Bush dashed the hopes of many for the healing potential of stem cell research. Today, we, along with millions of Americans, are hoping for a different outcome. Because every family in America, again, is just one diagnosis, one phone call or one accident away from needing the benefits of embryonic stem cell, we hope the President will consider his position. 
   Mr. Speaker, this week I am observing 20 years in the Congress of the United States. I am proud of that. But I mention it here because this is one of the most glorious days, in the top five for sure, that I have experienced here. With the introduction of this legislation again, with its passage, which I think will be clear and bipartisan, we are doing something that is relevant to the lives of the American people. And we are doing something that gives people hope. With this legislation, we have the opportunity to save lives, find cures and, again, give hope to those suffering. It is an opportunity that neither we nor the President should miss. 
   This legislation, as has been mentioned, would allow American scientists to pursue the science they believe has the most promise to cure. It would bring embryonic stem cell research under the strict controls and ethical guidelines of the National Institutes of Health. That doesn't exist now. Why would we reject that? And it would help ensure our Nation remains pre-eminent in science. 
   There is every compassionate reason and scientific reason to support stem cell research. But why would we send this promising science offshore? Why would we allow other countries to attract the best scientists with the best facilities and the best public support? If that excellence leaves us, we are not the best. That is completely unacceptable to Americans. I am so proud of my own State of California, where we have taken action on the ballot to establish the research in our own State, but it should be available to the entire country. 
   According to scientists, including many Nobel Laureates, embryonic stem cell research could unlock the doors to treatments and cures to cancer, diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis and many, many more diseases. If we have a scientific opportunity to treat and cure disease, we have a moral responsibility to support it. 
   Through stem cell research, this bill has the potential to bring hope and health to millions. I hope the President will sign it. It has support in Congress, and in the country, 72 percent of Americans support this bipartisan bill. That is a remarkable number for a remarkable bill. Our Nation's scientists support this bill. Our finest research institutes support this bill. And many religious organizations support this bill. In fact, many religious leaders endorse this bill because of its respect of life, and they believe that science has the Biblical power to cure. As the Episcopal Church writes in its letter in support of this legislation, ``As stewards of creation, we are called to help men and renew the world in many ways. Medical research expands our knowledge of God's creation and empowers us to bring potential healing to those who suffer.'' 
   Thank you, Congresswoman DeGette and Congressman Castle, for giving us the opportunity to support that science and honor that moral responsibility.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (HONORING JACK VALENTI -- (House of Representatives - June 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to pay tribute to a true patriot and dedicated public servant, Jack Valenti, whose passing we continue to mourn. From his days as a brave fighter pilot in World War II to his sound advice and counsel to President Lyndon Johnson, Jack always served his country with distinction and honor. A Democrat committed to the ideals of justice and equality, he approached each issue in the spirit of bipartisanship, earning respect on both sides of the aisle for his intellect and his passion. 
   As a fellow Italian-American, I take special pride in the life, leadership, and many accomplishments of Jack Valenti. His brilliant career, in both the public and private sector, was marked by humanity, humor, and excellence. As head of the Motion Picture Association of America, Jack's leadership helped promote and spread the best of American art and creativity on the silver screen all around the world. It was his sense of responsibility for the well-being of our children that inspired his efforts to establish a rating system to help parents monitor what their children watched. 
   As a passionate advocate for our children, Jack fought to protect our next generation, lending his powerful voice for those who could not be heard. His concern for the health and well-being of our children spurred his efforts as founder and president of the Friends of the Global Fight Against AIDS, TB, and Malaria, fighting diseases across the globe that for too long have extinguished the flame of hope that should burn brightly in the eyes of every child. 
   Jack Valenti will be greatly missed, and his accomplishments will be long remembered in the lives of all those he touched. My husband Paul and I express our deepest sympathy to his family, whom he adored, and hope that it is a comfort to his wife Mary Margaret, his children Courtenay, John, and Alexandra, and his two grandchildren that so many people share their loss and continue to pray for them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (ON THE PASSING OF LEO T. <b>MC</b>CARTHY -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, this week the State of California and indeed the Nation has lost a great leader. Leo McCarthy was a statesman, he was a great champion for justice, and he was a dear friend and purposeful mentor to me. As speaker of the California State House and Lieutenant Governor, Leo McCarthy promoted a values-based agenda to educate our children, grow our economy and protect our environment. 
   After he left office as the head of the Leo T. McCarthy Center for Public Service and the Common Good at the University of San Francisco, Mr. McCarthy taught children and students about promoting justice according to the highest ethical standard. He was brilliant, he was principled and committed to the future. 
   I am proud to have called Leo a friend for more than 30 years. He encouraged me not only to support candidates and be involved in the political process, but he was the main force in encouraging me to run for office in the first place in my own right. 
   Again, he was my friend and mentor, but he was that to so many people in California. Many who serve in this Congress today were mentored by Leo McCarthy, going back many years. 
   As recently as Saturday night when I spoke to Leo, he was optimistic about the future. He said, ``My morale is high. I am surrounded by my children and my grandchildren,'' and of course his wife, whom he adored, Jackie. ``They are with me, and I am not getting better as quickly as I would like, but I am happy.'' 
   My husband, Paul, and I and indeed our entire family, extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to many who loved Leo, especially his wife, Jackie, who he adored, and his children, Sharon, Conna, Adam and Niall. 
   I also want to recognize our former mayor of San Francisco, Art Agnos, who was a dear friend of Leo and a great comfort to him in his last months. I know Congresswoman Eshoo and I were regular visitors to Leo McCarthy's bed side, and he followed the proceedings of Congress with great interest right up until the last day. 
   I hope it is a comfort to his family, as I said, whom he adored, that so many people are praying for them at this sad time and that are mourning his loss. 
   I just wanted to make our colleagues aware of the loss of Leo McCarthy, a great person, a great friend, a great American. He served our country in the military, he served our country in the legislature. He served our country by teaching our young people. He will be sorely missed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CONDEMNING ASSASSINATION OF FORMER PAKISTANI PRIME MINISTER BENAZIR BHUTTO AND REAFFIRMING COMMITMENT OF UNITED STATES TO ASSIST PEOPLE OF PAKISTAN -- (House of Representatives - January 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and for giving us this opportunity to express our sympathy and sadness and recognize the tremendous contribution of Benazir Bhutto to the cause of democracy. 
   Thank you, Mr. Ackerman and Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen, ranking member of the full committee; Mr. Lantos and Mr. Pence for their giving this opportunity to us as well and for their strong words and support of democracy in Pakistan. 
   Benazir Bhutto about 15 years ago came to this Chamber of Congress, one of the first women ever to address a joint session of Congress. Only in her thirties, I believe, at the time, she inspired us, she filled us with hope, and the confidence which she projected gave us the confidence that democracy could come to Pakistan. That was a while ago, and much has transpired since then. She has been in and out and in again as Prime Minister. And, as you know, when she returned to Pakistan, it was to participate in an election to take Pakistan back down the path to democracy. 
   Her return was courageous. Mr. Pence mentioned the word courageous. It was courageous for many reasons. It is important to note that her father and two of her brothers had been assassinated. They were victims of political violence. And, of course, their family was dealt another blow as were the people of Pakistan with the brutal assassination of Benazir Bhutto. 
   She possessed a remarkable optimism about the future, a belief in the power of dialogue, and a strong, strong commitment to democracy. She was an advocate for reconciliation between Islamic and non-Islamic societies, and outlined how that goal could be achieved. She not only had a vision, she had a plan on how it would be done. The strength of her message of hope has underscored how much we lost in her tragic death. 
   In the days and the weeks that have followed Benazir Bhutto's death, there has been little good news from Pakistan. The Musharraf government continues to deny the Pakistani people a full accounting of the assassination and the events that followed. There must be a strong international investigation of this despicable crime. I acknowledge and recognize that the government has accepted assistance from Scotland Yard and the government of Great Britain. But the government has delayed scheduled parliamentary elections while continuing to jail democratic activists, suppress journalists, and shut out international monitors. The Bush administration must continue to press the Pakistani government to ensure that the coming election is free and fair.     
   I think it is important to note, my colleagues and Madam Speaker, that the 9/11 Commission recommendations, which were passed by this body and were signed into law last year, condition U.S. assistance to Pakistan on the cooperation of the Pakistani Government with global efforts against terrorism. 
   Since 2001, Pakistan has received nearly $10 billion in U.S. assistance. The Bush administration has repeatedly certified that our assistance would facilitate Pakistan's transition to democracy. We clearly have not seen enough progress in this area. 
   Troubling questions have been raised about our assistance to Pakistan, that it has not been properly monitored and that the Pakistani Government may be using it for purposes other than those intended. 
   Last year, under the leadership of Chairwoman NITA LOWEY and Ranking Member FRANK WOLF of the Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, under their leadership, our legislation shifted economic assistance for Pakistan from going directly to the Musharraf government to going directly to the Pakistani people on the ground. Indeed, this was a step forward and a recognition of the concerns that we had about how that aid was being used in Pakistan. 
   I believe the best way for the United States to honor the legacy of Benazir Bhutto is to renew our engagement directly with the people of Pakistan. We urge the Musharraf government to implement democratic reforms by restoring the Pakistani constitution, ensuring freedom of expression and assembly, guaranteeing free and fair democratic elections, and restoring an independent judiciary. 
   The opportunity that Mr. Ackerman and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Lantos and Mr. Pence have given us today to give an overwhelming vote in support of this resolution can tell the world that again we have gone on record in support of the democratic hopes of the Pakistani people and to pay tribute to the legacy of Benazir Bhutto. 
   I know I speak for all Members when I express my condolences to the family of Benazir Bhutto, and also to all of the others who lost loved ones in this tragic incidence of violence and assassination in Pakistan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (LIMITING USE OF FUNDS TO ESTABLISH ANY MILITARY INSTALLATION OR BASE IN IRAQ -- (House of Representatives - July 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I want to thank the gentleman for yielding and to acknowledge the exceptional leadership of my colleagues from California, Congresswoman BARBARA LEE and Congresswoman LYNN WOOLSEY, for their leadership on this issue, and Congresswoman BARBARA LEE's authorship of this legislation. Congresswoman BARBARA LEE, Congresswoman LYNN WOOLSEY, Congressman TOM ALLEN, Congressman DAVID PRICE, Congresswoman MAXINE WATERS have all been important in the leadership of bringing this legislation to the floor and continuing our debate on the involvement in Iraq. 
   The legislation is timely and a key part of our strategy for a new direction in Iraq. Thank you all. 
   I am very pleased to join our distinguished colleagues on the minority in support of this legislation. Yes, I have had the privilege of working with Mr. Rohrabacher, with Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen and others, Mr. Wolf and Mr. Smith, over the years on issues that relate to human rights throughout the world. I respect them for their leadership in so many arenas. It has been a privilege to work with them. I am so glad they are supporting this legislation today. 
   Mr. Speaker, I think it's very important for us to measure any initiative in relationship to the war in Iraq against the backdrop of what does this do to contribute to a vision for stability in the Middle East, whether we are talking about no permanent bases, whether we are talking about redeploying our troops out of Iraq, a change of mission there, to leave troops only for specific limited purposes. This is what the generals have told us. General Odom, for one, has said any vision for stability in the Middle East must begin with the redeployment of troops out of Iraq. So, too, this issue today, no permanent bases. 
   Yes, our colleagues are correct that this has been brought before the Congress before and has been passed into law, but the fact is that it may not have been heard adequately by the administration and certainly not by the people in the region. 
   This legislation clearly signals that the United States does not seek a permanent military presence in Iraq. This action is necessary to clarify confusing and contradictory statements from the administration regarding our Nation's long-term strategic relationship with Iraq. 
   In its final report, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group recommended that the United States clearly state that our Nation does not seek permanent military bases in Iraq or to control Iraq's oil. It did so to help shape ``a positive climate for ..... diplomatic efforts,'' which are essential to ending the U.S. presence in Iraq and bringing greater stability to the Middle East. 
   While the administration has previously indicated it would not seek permanent bases in Iraq, recent statements raise contrary questions. Administration officials have remarked that the President envisioned a continued military presence in Iraq similar to our presence in Korea, where U.S. forces have been stationed for more than 50 years. 
   The American people have made it clear in the election that they want a new direction in Iraq that brings the troops home. The Iraqi people and regional powers must also be reassured that the United States does not seek to exploit Iraq either by building permanent military facilities there or by exercising control over its oil. We can make that statement by passing this legislation overwhelmingly today as part of our strategy for a new direction in Iraq and for stability in the Middle East. 
   The President's remarks in South Carolina yesterday were really saddening. Just when you think you have seen it all, just when you think you have heard it all, the President mentioned al Qaeda nearly 100 times to justify his course of action in Iraq. Let us remove all doubt. This Congress, every single person here, is committed to fight the war on terror, but let us not misrepresent what the troops in Iraq are doing. 
   Everyone who examines the situation with the knowledge says we do not belong in a civil war in Iraq. So, again, the President's statements give great cause for grave concern. They crystallized why the Congress must continue to pressure the administration to change course in Iraq. Yet again, President Bush mischaracterized the facts on the ground in Iraq and the latest intelligence on the real threat of international terrorism. 
   Just yesterday news reports were that the administration plans a continued substantial troop presence in Iraq through the summer of 2009; heaven knows, beyond then. 
   As the latest National Intelligence Estimate reveals, the war in Iraq has not made America safer or turned the tide against terrorism. In fact, while we have been tied down in Iraq, al Qaeda has been regenerated, has regenerated its ability to attack the United States while enjoying safe haven in vital areas of our ally in the war on terrorism, Pakistan. 
   The President's Iraq policy is unacceptable to the American people, and to Democrats in Congress, because it has allowed al Qaeda to regain its footing, reinforce its numbers, and refocus on another spectacular and deadly attack on the United States. That is why we must change direction in Iraq and do it now before it is too late. 
   America cannot afford another 2 years of war in Iraq. We have already lost more than 3,600 brave Americans to this bloody conflict. There can be no discussion of the situation in Iraq without pausing to remember and acknowledge the sacrifice, the courage and the patriotism of our men and  women in uniform and their families who have sacrificed so much for our country. We thank them, we honor them, and we think they deserve better than no plan for a redeployment of troops out of Iraq. 
   We have lost 4 years that could have been spent bolstering Homeland Security, strengthening counterterrorism efforts, and focusing all of the resources at our disposal on combating the terrorist threat. Today's vote can again make clear to the President, and to the administration, to the American people, to the people in the Middle East, to the people in Iraq that the American people are opposed to a permanent military presence in Iraq. 
   The American people are demanding a new direction. The Democratic Congress will go on record every day, if necessary, to register a judgment in opposition to the course of action that the President is taking in Iraq. The Democratic Congress will go on record every day, if necessary, to fight for a redeployment of our forces as a central element of a new direction strategy for Iraq. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote in overwhelming numbers for this important legislation. 
   Again, I thank our colleagues, Congresswoman BARBARA LEE, Congresswoman LYNN WOOLSEY, Congressman TOM ALLEN, Congresswoman MAXINE WATERS, and Congressman DAVID PRICE and all the others who played such an important role in bringing this legislation to the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I want to acknowledge the extraordinary leadership of Mr. DAVID OBEY, who understands that the strength of our country is indeed measured in our military might but also in the health and well-being of the American people. 
   Thank you for bringing this important legislation to the floor. 
   Mr. Speaker, today is indeed an historic day. Today, this new Congress will take the first step: it will vote to end the war in Iraq. 
   Any statement on the war in Iraq must begin with a tribute to our troops. Today and every day we thank our troops for their courage, for their patriotism, for the sacrifice that they and their families are willing to make. 
   For 4 years and under the most demanding and dangerous conditions imaginable, they have worked together to do everything that was asked of them. As Members of Congress, our first responsibility under the Constitution, the preamble to the Constitution to which we take an oath of office, is to provide for the common defense. We here in this body have an obligation to work together to do that for the American people. 
   Mr. Johnson, our colleague, you, PATRICK MURPHY, and everyone in between who has served our country have helped make it the home of the brave and the land of the free. I salute you both. 
   I would like to also acknowledge two people who have been the champions of our troops and experts on our national security in this body. The two of them are the leading proponents on the legislation that is on the floor today: the Chair of the Armed Services Committee, IKE SKELTON; and the Chair of the Defense Appropriations Committee, JACK MURTHA. The two of them care deeply about the well-being of our troops, the readiness of our troops and its importance to our national security, and they are proposing that we pass this legislation today. 
   I have said from the beginning of this war, this war is a grotesque mistake. Last year's bipartisan Iraq Study Group said: ``The situation in Iraq is grave and deteriorating.'' They called for action. 
   The facts on the ground are these: after 4 years, Iraq is in chaos and the  government is not being held accountable. The administration is sending troops into the battle who are not mission-ready.     
   And when they come home, our veterans are not being honored as the heroes they are. The revelation of appalling conditions at Walter Reed Hospital and VA facilities across the Nation remind us, once again, that our troops are being sent into a war without the right preparation to welcome them home when they return. What kind of message does that send to our troops? 
   In terms of the chaos in Iraq, our Commander in Iraq, General Petraeus, recently said, ``There is no military solution to a problem like that in Iraq.'' General Petraeus. Yet, the President's response to escalating levels of violence is to deploy more troops, a strategy that has been tried and failed, tried and without success three times already. 
   In the short time since the escalation began, disturbing facts have come to light. 
   The admission by General Peter Pace, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, that he is, ``not comfortable'' with the readiness of Army units in the United States. 
   The declaration whereby the Department of Defense has finally admitted that elements of a civil war do exist in Iraq; in fact, it is even worse than that. 
   Yesterday, in terms of reconstruction, the conclusion of the Special Inspector General that the failure of the reconstruction effort in Iraq was caused by a lack of planning, coordination and oversight. In fact, more than $10 billion has disappeared, with no accountability. Waste, fraud and abuse are rampant in the reconstruction in Iraq. 
   How are we going to win the hearts and minds if the money is disappearing in thin air? We must address those and other facts about the war in Iraq. 
   The bill we debate today, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act, does that by rebuilding our military, honoring our promises to our veterans, holding the Iraqi Government accountable, and enabling us to bring our troops home. 
   Rather than sending more troops into the chaos that is the Iraqi civil war, we must be focused on bringing the war to an end. We can do that by passing this bill that transforms the performance benchmarks that have already been endorsed by President Bush and the Iraqi Government into requirements. 
   When those benchmarks are met, or when it becomes clear, after a reasonable amount of time, that they will not be met, the bill requires that our troops leave Iraq on a schedule that our former colleague, Lee Hamilton, a cochair of the Iraq Study Group, called responsible, not precipitate. 
   Benchmarks without deadlines are just words. And after 4 years of this war, words are not enough. 
   As Former National Security Advisor Brzezinski wrote in a letter endorsing this bill, ``It is clear that a different approach is needed if the Iraqis are to be encouraged to make the political accommodations necessary to promote stability and national reconciliation.'' That should have been happening a long, long time ago. 
   Bring the troops home too soon? It is too late for that, 4 years into a war, a war in which we have been engaged longer than we were in World War II. 
   This bill, in its wisdom, calls upon the Defense Department to adhere to its own readiness standards. The benchmarks were endorsed by the President and the Iraqi Government. The guidelines for the readiness standards are the Defense Department's own. Those standards are intended to assure that before our troops are sent into harm's way, they have the training and the equipment they need to enable them to perform their missions successfully. That simply is not happening. 
   The war in Iraq has produced a national security crisis, well described by Mr. Murtha and Mr. Skelton and others in the course of the day. Our readiness is at its lowest level since the Vietnam war. By addressing that crisis, the bill supports the troops, supports the troops, and protects the American people. 
   How do we support the troops by sending them into harm's way without the proper training and equipment, without the proper dwell time at home, and taking them there and overextending their stays and redeploying them over and over again? This bill says, adhere to your own guidelines. 
   Over and over again, Senator Reid, the Democratic leader in the Senate, and I have appealed to the President to have a new direction in Iraq, change the mission from combat to training, enabling us to redeploy our troops for limited purpose in Iraq. Engage in diplomacy, encourage the Iraqis to engage in the regional diplomacy so necessary to bring stability to the region. Have real reconstruction. Real reconstruction, reform it; reconstruction, not corruption. And have the political change that is necessary, amend the Constitution to relieve the civil unrest and strife that has produced so much violence. 
   When we do that, we can bring our troops home. We can redeploy them out of Iraq, and we can turn our attention to the real war on terror in Afghanistan. 
   A matter of weeks ago I was in Afghanistan with some of our colleagues, and the commander of the coalition forces there told us, flat out, that if we had not taken our attention away from Afghanistan, if we had stayed focused there, the al Qaeda and the Taliban would not have the opportunity that they have there now to make a comeback. That is where the war on terror is. The war in Iraq is a separate war from the war on terror. It is a separate war. 
   Again, the American people have lost faith in the President's conduct of this war. The American people see the reality of this war. The President does not. 
   Today, the Congress has an historic opportunity to vote to end the war in Iraq. Each Member of Congress will make a choice. The world is watching for our decision. The choice is clear. Will we renew the President's blank check for an open-ended war without end, or will we take a giant step to end the war and responsibly redeploy our troops out of Iraq? 
   The American people want a new direction in Iraq. Today the Congress will provide it. The American people do not support a war without end, and neither should this Congress. I urge an ``aye'' vote.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1011, VIRGINIA RIDGE AND VALLEY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I thank him for bringing this rule to the floor that will enable us to vote for this important bipartisan bill which has broad support, H.R. 1011, the Virginia Ridge and Valley Act of 2007. 
   I commend our colleague, Mr. Boucher, for his persistent and relentless leadership on this legislation. In advancing this, Mr. Boucher, you have advanced the cause of protecting our existing wilderness, and all of us who care about the wilderness and our park lands are deeply in your debt. 
   As we come to the floor, though, today, Mr. Speaker, I do want to call additional attention of my colleagues that as we gather here this afternoon, wildfires are raging in my home State of California. The President has declared an emergency. I hope that it will  be limited to that. But the way the fire is raging, I'm afraid it may come to the point of a major disaster. The Governor of California, Governor Schwarzenegger, has just reported that 750 homes have been totally destroyed, 68,000 homes are endangered; 250,000 acres of land, an area the size of the entire City of New York, has been devastated by the fire, much of it wilderness areas. And in addition to that, 365,000 people have been evacuated from their homes. 
   In any consideration of what is happening there, it's very important to salute our firefighters for their courage and their tireless, tireless effort to end this fire, which is a tough battle because of the winds and, hopefully, they will die down soon. It is possible that if the fire continues to rage, we may have to appeal to the President to declare this a major disaster and therefore eliminate any capping of support that we would have for California, and that would have implications, as we know, for other fires that may occur in our country. 
   So this is when the American people look to government to step up to the plate and to be there for them. The firefighters are doing their share. The people are acting in a very responsible way in the evacuations. The local government is doing well, according to what the Governor says and, of course, the State of California has this as an emergency of the highest, highest order. So far they have been able to avail themselves of whatever is available from the Federal Government. We may have to expand on that if the fires continue to rage. 
   But to those who have suffered personal losses, whether it's the loss of a loved one, personal injury, loss of their homes and their communities, I extend the deepest sympathy and the fullest support as Speaker of the House of Representatives. 
   With that, again, I urge my colleagues to support Mr. Boucher's bipartisan legislation to protect the Virginia wilderness, and in advance of any needs that we may have for the wildfires in California, inform my colleagues of the extent of the damage that we know to date and the need that we have for support. This compact between the people and the Federal Government is never called upon more strongly than in time of a natural disaster of this kind. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (REMARKS ON FOURTH ANNIVERSARY OF IRAQ WAR -- (House of Representatives - March 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, as the war in Iraq enters its fifth year, we take time to reflect on those who have made the greatest sacrifices because of this war, our troops. We all salute them because of their courage, their patriotism and the sacrifices they are willing to make. They have done everything asked of them, and we are forever in their debt. 
   That debt extends to their families, who have also made sacrifices. The missed family events, births of children, deaths of loved ones, graduations, anniversaries, birthdays are losses which cannot be replaced. We owe to these families a renewed commitment  to support them in whatever way may be required and to make sure that our troops have everything they need to do their job and to come home safely and soon. 
   To those who have been wounded, our Nation has promised to care for you as you have protected us. This is a solemn promise, and it will be honored. 
   The debt which can never be repaid is to those whose lives have been lost in the war, and as a Nation we mourn them. Their absence is felt each day, each and every one of them; but on this day in particular, their sacrifice should be remembered in a special way. I therefore salute our colleague, Congressman PATRICK MURPHY, for leading us in a moment of silence in memory of his colleagues who were lost in the war and all others as well. 
   Mr. Speaker, 4 years ago today, our Nation launched a war of choice in Iraq. The war has claimed the lives of over 3,200 American troops and wounded tens of thousands more, some of them permanently. 
   Any U.S. military engagement has to be judged in three ways: does it make our country safer, our military stronger, and the region in which we are engaged in the conflict more stable. The war in Iraq has failed on all three counts. 
   In fact, the administration's policy in Iraq has diminished the safety of our country by reducing the strength of our military. The readiness has sunk now to levels lower than Vietnam, it has failed to hold the Iraqis accountable for the future of their own country, and it has dishonored our commitment to our veterans. It has cost billions of dollars and significantly damaged our reputation in the eyes of the world. 
   When our young men and women are placed in danger, we owe it to them to provide them with the best training and equipment possible and a strategy worthy of their sacrifice. 
   The generals have told us over and over again, across the board, generals on active duty, General Petraeus as recently as last week, and many retired generals: there is no military solution to the war in Iraq. It cannot be won solely militarily. Instead, we must leverage all of our political, economic, and diplomatic strengths. 
   Again and again Senator Reid, the Democratic leader in the Senate, and I have urged President Bush to adopt a plan for Iraq that contains the following elements: 
   Change the mission. Transition the mission from combat to training. That will enable us to responsibly redeploy our troops. 
   Third, we must build consensus for political accommodation in Iraq. They must amend the constitution to be more inclusive to end the civil strife. 
   Fourth, we must encourage a robust diplomatic effort, primarily involving Iraq's neighbors. The first meeting of neighbors was held. That is a good step. It was at a low level, appropriately, and now it has to move to the ministerial level. 
   We then must reform and reinvigorate the reconstruction effort. $10 billion is unaccounted for. $10 billion in thin air of the reconstruction effort is unaccounted for. How do we answer to the American taxpayer, when this war is costing $2 billion a week on the military side, and on the reconstruction side we can't account for the money? 
   When we do this, when we transition, when we change the mission, redeploy the troops, build political consensus, engage in diplomatic efforts and reform and reinvigorate the reconstruction effort, then we can turn our attention to the real war on terror, in Afghanistan. 
   I hear the voice of the future in the Chamber. What a beautiful sound. What a beautiful sound. 
   Later this week, Mr. Speaker, we will debate a plan to bring the war to an end. The U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act will rebuild our military, protect our troops, provide for our veterans and hold the Iraqi Government accountable. 
   The benchmarks for the Iraqi Government set forth in this bill are the benchmarks endorsed by President Bush on January 10. They are: improvement in the performance of the Iraqi security forces; a greater commitment by the Iraqi Government to national reconciliation; and reductions in the level of sectarian violence in Iraq. 
   After 4 years of war, it is reasonable to expect these benchmarks to be met this year. Four years. We are in this war longer than World War II. There is no end in sight. There is no end in sight. There is an unlimited commitment, with no strategy to match the sacrifice of our troops. 
   Democrats will be offering later in the week, and hopefully with Republican support, we will pass a supplemental that will, that will, place a time frame. And I am really pleased that so many retired generals have come out in support of a time certain that relates to the performance that the President himself established, that the Iraqi Government themselves agreed to. 
   This isn't anything we created. It is the President's benchmarks. The Iraqis agreed to it. We want to see progress. But if we don't, we will begin the redeployment of our troops out of Iraq in 6 months from that date. Then we will leave troops there for training, for protecting our diplomats, for fighting terrorism, for force protection, but only for those purposes. 
   I welcome the debate over this bill and the opportunity it provides for Members of Congress to express themselves in what I consider is the greatest ethical challenge to our country, how we send our young men and women into battle; how we send them without the training, without the equipment, without the rest time at home, and overextend them when they are there.     
   How we send them into battle without plans to honor our commitment to them. 
   In the military they say: On the battlefield, we will leave no soldier behind. We say: And when they come home, we will leave no veteran behind. 
   Apparently our country, our great country, has to make a decision for greatness on how we are viewed in the world, on how we project our power and our ideals to make the world a more peaceful place, to honor our commitment to our troops, to honor our commitment to the future, and to honor the sacrifice and the vision of our Founding Fathers. 
   This is a very important decision for our caucus, for our Congress, for our country, and I hope that the debate will be in the spirit as it was a few weeks ago. It was a great commitment to our troops with knowledge of substance, based on values and respecting the patriotism of each and every person who serves in the Congress. 
   I know for certain as Speaker of the House that every single person who serves here is patriotic and wants to honor our veterans. I know for certain because I have seen every single person here take an oath of office to protect and defend our Constitution and our country. It is in that spirit that we offer this supplemental that makes America safer, that strengthens our military, and brings stability to the world. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 13, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentleman for yielding and the solemnity with which he introduced this debate. 
   My colleagues, in a few weeks the war in Iraq will enter its fifth year, causing thousands of deaths, tens of thousands of casualties, costing hundreds of billions of dollars, and damaging the standing of the United States in the international community. And there is no end in sight. 
   The American people have lost faith in President Bush's course of action in Iraq, and they are demanding a new direction. 
   On January 10, President Bush proposed deploying more than 20,000 additional combat troops to Iraq. This week we will debate his escalation. 
   In doing so, we must be mindful of the sacrifices our military personnel are being asked to make in this war and the toll it is taking on them, on their families, and on our veterans. Each one of us must determine, in a  manner worthy of their sacrifice, whether the President's proposal will make America safer, make our military stronger, and make the region more stable. 
   As this debate begins, let us be clear on one fundamental principle: we all support the troops. 
   In this bipartisan resolution that is before us today, it clearly states: ``Congress and the American people will continue to support and protect the members of the United States Armed Forces who are serving or who have served bravely and honorably in Iraq.'' We honor the service of our troops by asking the difficult questions about this war. As Republican Senator Robert Taft of Ohio said 2 weeks after Pearl Harbor: ``Criticism in a time of war is essential to the maintenance of any democratic government.'' 
   And just 10 days ago, President Bush told House Democrats: ``I welcome debate in a time of war ..... I do not believe that if you don't happen to agree with me, you don't share the same sense of patriotism I do,'' the President said. 
   In the spirit of responsibility to our troops and the patriotism we all share, let us consider whether the President's escalation proposal will lessen the violence in Iraq and bring our troops home safely and soon. 
   From the standpoint of the military, the President's plan must be evaluated for its prospects for success. It is based on a judgment that the way out of Iraq lies in sending more troops in. Our experience in Iraq has proven just the opposite. Four previous troop escalations have resulted in escalating levels of violence. 
   And as with any military action, the President's plan must also be evaluated on the additional burdens it will place on our troops and military families who have already sacrificed so much, the impact it will have on the already dangerous state of our military readiness. 
   Our military has done everything they have been asked to do, and they have performed excellently. But in order to succeed in Iraq, there must be diplomatic and political initiatives. 
   There has been no sustained and effective effort to engage Iraq's neighbors diplomatically, and there has been no sustained and effective effort to engage Iraqi factions politically. The Iraqi Government has failed to honor promises made last year when the constitution was adopted by failing to propose amendments to include all sectors of Iraq in the civic life of the country. As a result, today we are confronted by little political accommodation, hardening sectarian divisions, ethnic cleansing by neighborhoods, and waves of refugees burdening neighboring countries. 
   After the Members of this body, this House of Representatives, have fully debated the President's escalation proposal, we will have a straight up-or-down vote. In a few days, and in fewer than 100 words, we will take our country in a new direction on Iraq. A vote of disapproval will set the stage for additional Iraq legislation which will be coming to the House floor. 
   Friday's vote will signal whether the House has heard the American people: no more blank checks for President Bush on Iraq. Our taxpayer dollars must go to protect our troops, to keep our promises to our veterans, and to provide for the safety of the American people. 
   In light of the facts, President Bush's escalation proposal will not make America safer, will not make our military stronger, and will not make the region more stable; and it will not have my support. 
   I urge my colleagues to support our troops and vote ``aye'' on the bipartisan Skelton-Lantos-Jones resolution before us today 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (HONORING THOSE WHO HAVE VOLUNTEERED TO ASSIST IN THE CLEANUP OF THE NOVEMBER 7, 2007, OIL SPILL IN SAN FRANCISCO BAY -- (House of Representatives - December 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of my constituents in San Francisco and my colleagues in the Bay Area delegation, I want to thank Chairmen Oberstar and Cummings, and Ranking Members Mica and LaTourette, for their cooperation in bringing this resolution to the floor. 
   The San Francisco Bay is one of Northern California's most precious resources. Its biodiversity and fundamental role in commerce and recreation make it essential to the vitality of the entire Bay Area. 
   The Bay is special to San Franciscans. We bring our kids and grandkids here to play and learn about the environment. We surf and sail. And we appreciate the precious ecosystem that exists on the beaches, in the estuaries, under the water, and in the nearby National Marine Sanctuary--the Gulf of the Farallones. So protection of this Bay--its safety and its health--has always been a high priority. Any harm to the Bay is a serious matter, and when disaster struck on November 7th our community was quick to respond. 
   Thousands of Bay Area residents immediately volunteered to clean beaches, rescue wildlife and undo the damage caused by this devastating spill. City officials worked with federal authorities on a volunteer management agreement to train and deploy local volunteers who were qualified to assist with difficult shoreline and wildlife recovery efforts. As a result, over 1,000 members of the Bay Area community were quickly trained and credentialed. 
   In addition, community non-profit organizations such as San Francisco Connect and the San Francisco Volunteer Center rallied support; environmental organizations like Baykeeper, Save the Bay and the Bay Institute offered their expertise; and the Pacific Coast Federation of Fishermen's Associations, members of the San Francisco Crab Boat Owners Association, commercial crabbers and other Bay Area fishermen offered their equipment and experience. 
   Today's resolution honors all of the individuals, organizations and officials who volunteered their time, their skills and their energy in response to this disaster. Their commitment to both the environment and their community saved wildlife from oil residue, protected the Bay's ecosystem and made our beaches safe again for Bay Area families. 
   As it says in the Bible, `to minister to God's creation is an act of worship. To ignore those needs is to dishonor the God who made us.' 
   To all of those who ministered to the Bay, I thank you as a San Franciscan, as one who is honored to represent our great city in this House, and as Speaker of the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (TRIBUTE TO THE LATE CONGRESSWOMAN JULIA CARSON -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank very much my colleague and thank you for calling us together so that we can express our sympathy to the family of JULIA CARSON, to her constituents whom she loved and worked so hard for, and to our colleagues from Indiana; Mr. Visclosky, Mr. Hill and Mr. Donnelly and Mr. Ellsworth, who are here, this great distinguished delegation from Indiana with the crown jewel, JULIA CARSON, as one of the senior members of the delegation. 
   Thank you so much. I know you are among those who were the last, certainly from Congress, to visit with Congresswoman CARSON and conveyed back to us her usual good cheer and dignity and demeanor, and that is how she was. 
   And so that it's very sad to convey to her grandson Andre CARSON on behalf of all of the Members of the House of Representatives the deep sadness that we have over their suffering. 
   Members have talked about her in Congress and the kind of person that she was, and I remember visiting her on a number of occasions in Indianapolis, and what was a joy to behold was the esteem in which she was held by all of the people there, whether we were walking down the street or talking to police officers there. Wherever it was we went to events that she had, relating to health care, relating to the issues that concerned America's working families, people just worshipped JULIA CARSON. I never saw anything like it. I never saw anything like it. 
   She came to Congress, as has been mentioned, after decades of distinguished service to the State of Indiana, and Members have talked about her, the positions that she has held. During her time in the House, she was a very powerful advocate for the people of Indianapolis and for working families across the Nation. 
   As the Indianapolis Star editorial board wrote, ``The city's history-making congresswoman never forgot her roots.'' 
   I was listening as Members talked about the role that she had played most recently, the congresswoman from California talking about the role she played in getting the House to vote for a Congressional Gold Medal for Rosa Parks. 
   I talked about how it was to watch JULIA in Indianapolis and just how people responded to her as she was walking down the street, and I now talk about how it was the day that she got this idea and started the ball rolling on this and then the day that Rosa Parks came to the Congress. It was a thrilling, historic day for all of us, the bond between the two of them, the reverence in which we all held Rosa Parks, and the appreciation that she had for the work that JULIA CARSON had done to make that day possible, not only for Rosa Parks but for the country. She's a star. JULIA was a star. 
   It's a fitting cause for her, as JULIA and Rosa Parks shared a quiet determination, a fierce sense of purpose and a total commitment to an ideal of equality which is our Nation's heritage and our Nation's hope. 
   Sadly, as we all know, in recent months, JULIA CARSON faced illness, but she did so with her characteristic courage and dignity. When she was here, she was here, and when she wasn't here, she was directing us from home. You were very fortunate, and I'm not usually jealous, but I'm jealous of the fact that you had an opportunity to see her. We had all hoped, of course, that we would see her once again here on the floor of the House. 
   I know that we're reassured that JULIA is now at peace. This lovely, lovely woman, with an incredible sense of humor, she didn't miss anything that was going on on the floor. She would sit there quietly and then make the most incisive and insightful comments about the proceedings. 
   We're all sad to lose her as a congresswoman, of course, for our country. We're deeply saddened to lose her as a friend, and I hope it is a comfort to Andre CARSON and to her family and to her constituents that so many people throughout our country, and certainly in this Congress, share their grief and are praying for them at this sad time. 
   I thank again my colleague for affording us the opportunity to express our admiration for this great lady, JULIA CARSON. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND SECURITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - December 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Michigan, the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, for his kind words and for his tremendous leadership. 
   Because of his leadership and that of 10 other Members, Chairs of our committees of jurisdiction, working in a bipartisan way, we are able to bring earth-shattering change in terms of energy policy to the floor of the House. Here we are today. Here we are today to pass a bill that passed in the Senate 88-6; 88-6, very strong bipartisan support for this legislation. 
   Today in the House, we have the opportunity to give that same kind of validation and legitimacy to a new direction in energy security for America. It is about our national security. Admiral McGinn, when he spoke recently, said that our dependence on foreign oil presents a clear and present danger to our country. It is a matter of our national economy. 
   Congresswoman Vel&#225;zquez, Chair of the Small Business Committee, and Congressman George Miller, with the Green Jobs Initiatives, can show a new way to build a new economy involving many more people and the new technologies that will be unleashed because of this legislation.     
   It's about protecting our environment. Congressman Rahall, Chairman Rahall and his Natural Resources Committee provided great leadership, as did the Chair of the Government Reform Committee, Mr. Waxman, who has long been a supporter of energy security and energy independence. 
   The list goes on: Mr. Oberstar, the greening of the Capitol and the Federal buildings across the country and what that will save, and many more initiatives that he has presented. 
   The chairman of the Ways and Means Committee provided the way to pay for it. That was rejected in the Senate, but we will revisit that issue in a manner that I think will receive strong bipartisan support. 
   The chairman of our select committee, Mr. Markey, did an excellent job in keeping this issue alive, as he has worked on it for many, many years.  
   What other Chairs? I'm looking around the room at our Chairs. I'll talk about them as we go along. 
   Mr. Bart Gordon, Chair of the Science and Technology Committee, is really in the forefront. So much of this bill comes out of his committee. 
   Mr. Speaker, the work that was done by the distinguished chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Mr. Dingell, is breaking ground. It's groundbreaking in terms of what it will do in savings to the consumer, what it is doing in terms of protecting the environment, and, again, what it is doing to provide a new direction. And it does so in a way that breaks ground but does not leave it broken. It takes us to a new place, and I thank him for that leadership. It's a tremendous addition to this legislation. 
   And the United States Senate, two of their major provisions, renewable fuel portfolio, and the CAFE, were leadership issues, and I'm glad that we were able to work out those, reconcile the differences between the House and the Senate, again with the leadership of Mr. Dingell. 
   I think of us as being in a place where we're looking at the horizon, whether we're on a ship, or wherever we are, looking at a horizon. And this legislation takes us closer to that horizon. But as with all horizons, they keep getting farther away. But they lead us and reaching for it takes us to a whole new world. And that's what this legislation does. 
   My colleagues in this Chamber, our guests. Am I allowed to address them, Mr. Speaker? You are present at a moment of change, of real change, of rejecting the past, respecting the values of the past, but rejecting the insistence that we stay in the past and go into the future. This is about a choice between yesterday and tomorrow. 
   And while I would have liked to have had the full package that passed here with overwhelming bipartisan support in the House, I salute this bill for what it does do and respect it for that, rather than judge it for what it does not, because we have plenty of time, interest, knowledge, know-how and bipartisanship to move forward to make even more change. 
   It's, as I said, a national security issue. It's an economic issue, an environmental issue and therefore a health issue. It is an energy issue, and it is a moral issue. It's a moral issue, and that's why we worked closely with the evangelical and faith-based communities, with scientists and faith-based, with business and environmentalists, with our friends in labor who support this legislation, to preserve God's beautiful legacy to us. It is His gift to us, and we have a moral responsibility to preserve it. 
   We have to think about our consumers every single day. That's who we represent. They are our bosses, and their well-being is our mission, to protect their well-being. 
   This legislation will save the average driver who goes up to the pump and has the shock that consumers are having, this legislation alone will save the average driver between $700 and $1,000 per year. It adds up to $22 billion in net annual consumer savings in the year 2020. 
   In order to reduce the price at the pump, the increasing of the fuel efficiency standards to 35 miles per gallon is historic. It's the first time in 32 years that this has happened. 
   So whether we're thinking as consumers and very personally about what this means in the lives of our constituents as they see their energy costs go up at the pump or in heating their homes at this Christmas season, or we're thinking of our national defense and our national economy, this is as personal as each and every one of our consumers. It is as global as the planet, and the opportunity provided to take us to a new horizon, to see a new world, a new era of possibility is here with us today. I hope, as a Christmas present to our constituents and, especially to the children, because it's about their future, that we would have very, very strong bipartisan support for this legislation. In the Senate, as I said, 88-6, a beautiful vote. I hope that we can replicate that in the House. 
   In any event, this great opportunity for us would not have been possible without the leadership of you, Mr. Chairman, so many of our chairmen, including the gentleman in the Chair, working from the Appropriations Committee, Mr. Obey, and so many others of us. 
   As I salute our chairmen for the intellect, the institutional memory, the legislative know-how that they brought to this process, I also want to give a special thank you to our freshman class. They came to this Congress to make change. They know how essential protecting our planet is. They know the concerns of their constituents. They're fresh out of the trenches, dealing with them. And without that freshman class, if I may call them freshmen, we would not have had the success that we have had today. 
   So this has been a collaboration on both sides of the aisle, from our most senior Members to our newest Members of Congress, to invigorate us, to encourage us to make the change that we're making today. I'm absolutely delighted about it. I can't wait until we join with the President of the United States when he signs this legislation into law and takes a step forward into the future.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (FEDERAL LAND ASSISTANCE, MANAGEMENT AND ENHANCEMENT ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 09, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank him and Mr. Sali for their leadership in bringing this important legislation to the floor in a timely fashion for us in California. I appreciate the good work of their committee. 
   Mr. Speaker, California today is fighting some of the most significant fires in terms of acres burned in our history, more than 675,000 acres, as the fires that have cost $276 million to fight, according to the State and Federal reports, to date. The number of active wildfires up and down the coast of California is 330. There have been 1,731 fires since June 21. 
   Up to 20,000 firefighters are battling the blazes, many of them from neighboring States, many from far and wide across the country. Some from other countries, from Mexico, from Canada, from Australia, and New Zealand and other places, coming to the rescue. Later today we will have a resolution offered by my colleague from California (Mr. Farr), whose district is greatly impacted by these fires, a resolution to commend our firefighters, thank them for their service and their sacrifice, and that will be an important resolution and debate at that time. 
   But in addition to extending our sympathy to those for their losses and our appreciation to our firefighters, we have to do more. And today, Mr. Rahall, you have given us the opportunity to do just that. 
   This legislation, the FLAME Act, before us creates an emergency Federal fund dedicated solely to combating the catastrophic wildfires. This funding will help ensure that fire prevention resources are not consumed by emergency firefighting expenses. Others have spoken about the need for us to even go beyond this act in terms of treatment and prevention, but this act is important because this fund will prevent the soaking up of all of the other dollars that should be used for prevention but are used for extinction. 
   The FLAME Act also requires the administration to develop a cohesive wildfire management strategy. This is very, very important and long overdue. We need prevention. We need the treatment that was described by our colleague. A long-term strategy is needed and should include approaches to hiring and retaining experienced Federal wildland firefighters. We have enormously talented people in our country. We want many of them to work for the Federal Government, and that's why I oppose the administration's insistence on outsourcing and other policies that undercut the Federal workforce which extend to our wildland firefighters. 
   I want to commend Mr. Rahall, whose leadership on the Natural Resources Committee is helping to strengthen efforts to better prepare for and combat wildfires, Mr. Sali as well, for bringing this legislation to the floor; Chairman Ra&#250;l Grijalva of the Natural Resources Committee's National Parks, Forests and Public Lands Subcommittee; and Chairman Norm Dicks of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior. These outstanding leaders have brought forward bipartisan legislation that will help us fight future catastrophic fires and ensure that sufficient resources are dedicated to protecting both citizens and property. That is why this legislation has such broad bipartisan support and has been endorsed by five former chiefs of the Forest Service, the National Association of State Foresters, the National Association of Counties, the National Federation of Federal Employees, the Western Governors Association, and nearly 40 other leading organizations. 
   As I said earlier, our colleague Congressman Farr is to be commended for authoring the resolution the House will consider shortly that commends our firefighters from California and throughout America for their courageous service. As we thank our colleagues for this much-needed legislation, we should also honor the service of our firefighters, the California Office of Emergency Services, the National Guard for helping protect our neighbors' lives and homes in California and throughout the West. 
   We also express our deepest sympathies to those who have suffered deep personal losses as a result of these fires, particularly the families of two firefighters who lost their lives: Robert Roland of the Anderson Valley Fire Department, a volunteer fireman who lost his life fighting a fire; and John Hermo of Oregon. He came down from Oregon to help fight the fires. He was drowned while off duty but, nonetheless, here in the service of this important fight. 
   This critical legislation is an opportunity to provide consistent assistance and structure for relief in these times of emergency. Again, we express our appreciation to the legislation's authors and hopes that the weather and the wind will assist our brave firefighters in combating the blazes. I know we all join in saying that we wish God will bless our courageous firefighters. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EXPRESSING THE CONDOLENCES OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ON THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE JO ANN DAVIS, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA -- (House of Representatives - October 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, it is with great sadness that I rise to acknowledge the passing of Congresswoman Jo Ann Davis and to pay tribute to her. As we all know, she passed away on Saturday. And although she had been diagnosed a while ago, we knew she was sick, it still hit this Congress very hard to lose her. 
   Congresswoman Davis was tremendously proud to represent Virginia's First District, which she called ``America's First District'' because it included Jamestown. She spoke often on this floor of the deep patriotism of her constituents and of the pride of the many brave men and women in uniform who were her constituents. 
   When Jo Ann Davis was elected to Congress, as has been mentioned by some, she made history as the first female Republican ever elected to the House from Virginia; but she knew it was far more critical to make progress than to make history, and she did, particularly in honoring our troops and our veterans. In fact, the first piece of legislation Congresswoman Davis ever introduced increased the life insurance benefits paid to survivors of military members killed on duty, and that passed the House in 2001. 
   After being diagnosed with breast cancer in 2005, Congresswoman Davis became an outspoken advocate in favor of education, prevention and treatment of the disease. We in this body can express our admiration for her dedication with a real national commitment to fighting this disease which annually takes the lives of 40,000 American women. 
   The Daily Press of Newport News, Virginia wrote of their Member of Congress this weekend, ``You can, as Jo Ann Davis amply demonstrated, succeed in politics by making friends, working hard, and doing your duty.'' All of us in this body can honor Congresswoman Davis's legacy by doing just that. 
   As was mentioned about the patriotism of her district, she was deeply patriotic as well. She loved our country, and this Congress loved her. When she was diagnosed, we all hovered over her and prayed for her and were deeply saddened. At first, she would be gone for a while, and when she came back, we all encircled her and hugged her, and as it turned out, drew strength from her. As we were trying to encourage her, she gave us strength. Her attitude, her dignity, and the strength with which she confronted this terrible disease was something that was a lesson for all of us. When she passed away, we were all very, very deeply saddened, as I mentioned before, to get that sad news. 
   She was really a bright light in this Congress. I hope it is a comfort to her  husband, Chuck Davis, to her family, her two sons, her granddaughter, and her many family and friends that so many people in our country, indeed, intensely in this Congress, mourn their loss and are praying for them at this sad time.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EMPLOYMENT NON-DISCRIMINATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - November 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding and I thank Mr. Andrews of New Jersey for his leadership on this important issue. He knows, as does the chairman of the full committee, Mr. Miller, that discrimination has no place in America. Our country is a great country because we recognized that long ago, but we have more work to do. 
   I thank them both for their strong leadership in fighting discrimination and thank them for, in the case of Mr. Miller, decades of service and leadership on social justice. I commend Mr. Andrews for his commitment to protecting the rights of America's workers. 
   This is truly an historic day. Today, the House of Representatives will consider and hopefully pass for the first time the Employment Non-Discrimination Act, or ENDA. As someone who has looked forward to this day for 20 years that I have served in Congress, it is a joyous occasion. It simply would not have been possible without the outstanding leadership and courage of Chairman BARNEY FRANK and of Congresswoman TAMMY BALDWIN. Anyone who cares about a country without discrimination is deeply in debt to TAMMY BALDWIN and to BARNEY FRANK for their leadership in this regard. 
   While ENDA's victory will represent an historic victory, I share the disappointment of TAMMY BALDWIN, BARNEY FRANK and others who support including protection for transgender individuals in ENDA. While I had hoped that we could have included gender identity, I support final passage of ENDA because its passage will build momentum for further advances on gender identity rights and the rights of all Americans. 
   America is a country that is great and wealthy, but we cannot afford to squander the talents of any of our citizens, nor should we. We all benefit if everyone gets a chance to work hard and support their families. Yet today, in 30 States an American can be denied a job or fired because they are gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender. This is wrong. Working Americans should be judged on one criterion, their job performance, and not be subjected to prejudice. 
   Madam Chairman, our history teaches us that progress on civil rights is never easy. It is often marked by small and difficult steps. We must take this step today toward the ideal of equality that is both our heritage and our hope. 
   I've heard the use of the word ``tolerance'' today, and I respect the use of that word, but if I may respectfully depart from it and say that in my community that is blessed with a diverse community, our diversity is of all kinds: religion, gender identification, religious faith and the rest. And I always say that the beauty is in the mix. And it's not that we're tolerant in my district in California in San Francisco; it is that we have so much respect for the role that each person plays in our society. 
   So tolerance, maybe; respect, definitely. But let me also add that it is the pride that we take in that diversity, and it is the pride that I take in the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender community that brings me to the floor today to urge a ``yes'' vote on this important legislation.   
   Ms. LINDA T. S&#193;NCHEZ of California. Madam Chairman, at the outset, I'd like to note that I did not vote for this bill in Committee, not because I don't support its goals--I do--but because I strongly believe that we could have done better by protecting more people from discrimination. 
   That is why I am proud to support the amendment by my colleague from Wisconsin, that will add a prohibition against gender identity discrimination. This amendment is needed because protecting transgender people is the right thing to do. We're talking about a small group of people, but a group that faces tremendous discrimination and that deserves to be protected from workplace discrimination just as much as anybody else. 
   Now that this bill is out of committee and on the floor, let me be clear, I will vote for it because it extends a basic right to millions of Americans. And that right is the right to go to work and earn a living. 
   That's all, just the right to support themselves and their families. It is a right that is so basic that I'm appalled that some in this Chamber actually oppose this bill. 
   What is so problematic about protecting Americans from losing their jobs, not due to job performance, but due to bigotry? 
   Americans believe that if you work hard and do your job, you should be rewarded. And Americans believe that this basic principle should apply across the board. 
   Poll after poll reveal that an overwhelming majority of Americans agree someone shouldn't lose a job or be denied a promotion simply for being gay or lesbian. 
   Americans also believe that it is already illegal to do so. Unfortunately, in many states, it isn't. That's why this bill is so important. 
   The passage of this bill is just one part of an overall effort to improve the lives of working Americans. So far this year, the New Direction Congress has already worked to increase the opportunities available to working Americans and their families. 
   We have increased the minimum wage. 
   We have made college more affordable by increasing Pell Grants and reducing interest rates on student loans. 
   We have investigated the Administration's failure to protect workers on the job, and begun efforts to ensure that the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Mine Safety and Health Administration do their jobs: keep workers safe so they can go home to their families after a day's work free of injury and disease. 
   It is wrong to deny someone a job, a raise, or a promotion because of his or her real or perceived sexual orientation. And it is past time for Congress to say so. 
   Ending employment discrimination against gay, lesbian, and bisexual people by enacting ENDA is such a common sense solution, and so consistent with the American principles of freedom, justice, and equality that it's amazing to me that in 2007, we still haven't passed this bill. 
   Let's work together to make the ``American Dream'' a reality for millions of Americans. Let's vote for the Baldwin amendment and pass this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3688, UNITED STATES-PERU TRADE PROMOTION AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - November 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentlewoman for yielding and thank her for her excellent work as a member of the Rules Committee in managing this important rule to the House. 
   Mr. Speaker, I know that this is a difficult issue for Members to decide upon because it goes right to the heart of family life in America. It's about the job security, the economic security, the health security of America's families. And the issue of trade has been one that has been controversial, and frankly, I have largely been more on the other side of it than I am tonight. 
   I rise in support of the Peru Trade Agreement, and I want to tell my colleagues why. They will have to make up their own minds. But I want to take the opportunity to talk about it in the context of the last, say, 20 years. That is how long I have been in Congress. 
   For most of that time, I have fought with a Democratic President and a Republic an President, starting with President Bush 41, Father Bush, and throughout the Clinton administration on the issue of China trade. I saw it clearly as a threat to the economic security of America's working families. I could see the patterns that were developing there. But all along, those powers that be always said, no, this is the enlightened course. 
   At the time, when we started this debate on China, which was right after the massacre in Tiananmen Square, the trade deficit between the U.S. and China, the trade deficit we suffered, was around $5 billion a year. $5 billion a year. It sounded like all the money in the world to us at the time, $5 billion a year. How much leverage could we have to open China's markets? To stop them violating our intellectual property? To have them free the prisoners arrested in Tiananmen Square? To have them stop proliferating weapons of mass destruction? We fought so much leverage. 
   But Washington, D.C. was very much influenced by the Government of the People's Republic of China. And so all of the powers that be told us, if only we went down the path that they were recommending, that markets would be open to us, that political reform would come, all of these things, China would stop proliferating weapons of mass destruction to places like Iran and Pakistan, to name a few. 
   What happened was none of the above. But strictly on the issue of trade, say, 17, 18, years ago, a trade deficit of about $5 billion a year. Stick with us, they told us, and great things would happen in this relationship. Oh, they did. For China. The trade deficit now with China is approximately $5 billion a week. A week. It went from $5 billion a year to $5 billion a week. And all of the economic consequences that go with it, and all of the inferiority of product, threatening the food safety, the medicine safety, the toy safety in our country. That's what the sophisticated people told us that we should do was to go along the course that we have. The violation of intellectual property. That piracy is legendary. Of course, nothing has changed except we are now in about a $250 billion deficit to China. 
   I bring that up because many of us in this room fought that fight. We invested a lot into it. And we were always cast aside as Luddites and unsophisticated people and Stone Age and didn't understand. But we do understand that the American workers paid a price for that. The markets didn't open to our products. Even with WTO that didn't happen. And, again, the deficit speaks for itself. 
   So I say from that level of passion and familiarity with the issue and being in the fight for a long time, that when I saw an opportunity for us to have labor and environmental standards as a core part of our trade agreements, it marked a drastic difference from what even a Democratic President was willing to give on that score, even a Democratic President. We couldn't get that in the Clinton administration. 
   So I want to commend Mr. Rangel and Mr. Levin, the two chairmen, for the excellent work that they did. I tell you the China story just as a background as to how difficult it was before. No matter what the evidence, no matter how clear it was, others saw it differently, and they saw it wrong. 
   So here we are today trying to make some distinctions, trying to make some distinctions about trade agreements that are better than others. I don't think any of them are perfect on either end. And so my reason for supporting this is, as a leader in the Democratic Party, is I certainly believe that part of the legacy of our great party is the legacy of John F. Kennedy who said that free trade was a part of who we are as a country and that international trade would be good for our economy. But we want not only free trade, we want fair trade.     
   We are going to be Uncle Sam instead of ``Uncle Sap'' in these trade relationships. It had to be fair. It had to be right for our workers. 
   As I say, this opportunity came along in a bipartisan way to say that unless labor and environmental standards were part of a trade agreement, it couldn't even be considered. It didn't mean it would be considered, but that was the threshold that all of these agreements had to cross. And then they would be judged on their individual merits in terms of the agreement between our two countries. 
   Recognizing the fear and apprehension and uncertainty that exists in many families and homes across America because of their jobs going overseas, the businesses closing, their communities having a downturn, can't sell their home, all the consequences that go with that, the chairman put forth legislation that passed the House last week, which I hope that the President  of the United States will sign. I think it is essential, essential, if we are going to accomplish anything on trade, on immigration or anything else, that people know that we share the concerns that they have and that we are doing something about it. So the trade adjustment in terms of training and opportunity and health care and all of those things was very, very important. 
   That was done in the context of other things to address the needs of America's working families. Hopefully we can pass SCHIP to get 10 million children to have their health insurance, pass legislation to make college more affordable, raise the minimum wage, have an Innovation Agenda that says if we are going to compete in the world, we must innovate. We can't just complain about trade, we must innovate. And that innovation begins in the classroom, and it takes us right back to our college affordability, our initiatives of K-12, early childhood education and the rest. 
   So I think we have to certainly be concerned about the impact of trade. It is self-evident and it is a challenge for us. But we cannot turn our backs on it. And I absolutely refuse to have the Democratic Party be viewed, and I say this to my Republican colleagues, I know you don't want to be viewed, but I have a responsibility also to my Democratic colleagues, I don't want this party to be viewed as an antitrade party. 
   So, let's make some distinctions. Take every trade agreement on its own merit. The Peru Free Trade Agreement rises to the level of acceptance. I am not saying it is perfect. It rises to the level of acceptance. Labor and environmental principles are in the core of the bill. Other changes we wanted to see were made by the Parliament in Peru. They passed the laws or they made the changes we said they needed to have. 
   So if you are ever going to support any trade agreement, I would think this would be the easiest one to do. Other trade agreements have other obstacles that have to be dealt with. I don't think we should shut the door on anything, because that gives nobody any motivation to make any change in what we would like to see as a free flow of goods to and from these countries. 
   It is frustrating, and I respect everything that has been said by my colleagues in this debate. I think it is all legitimate. Some, like Marcy Kaptur, have been in this fight for a long time. Working families in America have no greater champion to advocate for the best possible outcome for them. 
   But, again, viewing in the context of we want to have an economy that is fairer, that we have a progressive economic agenda where many more people participate in the economic success of our country, that is why we raised the minimum wage and make college more affordable, et cetera, and that is why we are promoting our Innovation Agenda for energy security and reversing global warming, so we can create many more jobs, so America's farmers can fuel America's energy independence, where we will send our energy dollars to the Midwest and not to the Middle East. This is a bigger picture than the Peru Free Trade Agreement. 
   The Peru Free Trade Agreement is not a big deal in terms of trade agreements, but it is an important step into saying we can make distinctions about trade relationships that are grossly unfair to the American worker, greatly oppressive to the workers in their own countries and are not making people freer. And to those that are in furtherance of growing our own economy while helping to lift other economies in the world, I think in this case the Peru Free Trade Agreement goes in that direction. 
   So, that is why, my colleagues, I am supporting this. It may seem to be a departure to some of you from where I have been on other trade agreements. But it is a marked difference, a marked difference from where we were before, whether it was President Bush I, whether it was President Clinton, and where we are now. 
   Those many who have been on one side or the other of this all say it is an amazing accomplishment to have gotten that done. And for that, whatever the outcome of this vote is, for that I want to once again pay tribute to Chairman Rangel and Chairman Levin, chairman of the subcommittee, for the great leadership and the work they did. I just want you to know why I was supporting this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank him for being such a great maestro in orchestrating this legislation that we have before us, accompanied by so many others; Congresswoman Waters for her tremendous leadership. We recognize Congressman Spratt of the Budget Committee; Congresswoman Slaughter for her work on the Rules Committee to bring this bill to the floor; Congressman Rangel for his very, very important work as well and having a piece of this bill. 
   I commend Spencer Bachus for his leadership and some of the great ideas that he brought to the table that first night and continued to bring to the discussion as we have gone ahead. 
   It's been my pleasure to work with Mr. Boehner and Mr. Blunt on this and with my colleague Mr. Hoyer who's invested so much time; and our mastermind, Rahm Emanuel for his knowledge of Wall Street, his knowledge of Congress, and his leadership was essential in our reaching the point we are today. 
   The place that we are today is to debate legislation that I think is much improved from the product that was here on Monday, and as we debate this legislation, we must do so with an eye to the future. We must reassure the American people that this crisis will lead to reforms that will strengthen their personal economic security, that the bright light of accountability will protect the taxpayers and ferret out the abuses that have led to this crisis. 
   The urgency is clear. We hear it from our friends, from our neighbors. We hear it everywhere we turn. 
   In my home State of California, officials including the Governor are urgently calling for Federal legislation to avoid economic catastrophe, catastrophe. Those urgent calls are being echoed by Democratic and Republican Governors from across the country.     
   While the focus has been on the Dow Jones and Wall Street, we are addressing the real pain felt by Mr. and Mrs. Jones on Main Street. They are why we must pass this legislation today. 
   Seniors and those nearing retirement have watched their savings dwindle and their pensions evaporate. Entrepreneurs seeking a plan for a new business are being turned away for credit, undermining job creation. If you're trying to buy a car, you cannot get a car loan. If you're trying to sell cars, you cannot get a business loan to purchase inventory. If you're trying to save for your children's college education, you are deeply in doubt as to whether your savings will be there. 
   And just this morning, the Labor Department announced that another 159,000 Americans lost their jobs in September, the most in 5 years. Nearly 800,000 Americans have lost their jobs this year alone. These are the Americans we must act on behalf of today. They are not the high flyers on Wall Street, but our neighbors and our constituents, and they need our help. 
   Let us be clear, the original rescue bill proposed by the Bush administration was unacceptable, as has been indicated by Mr. Boehner. It has asked us to commit $700 billion in taxpayers' money with few strings and no safeguards. In a bipartisan way, we rejected that proposal. And in our bipartisan negotiations between the White House and the Congress, we demanded tough additions to the bill, and they are contained in this legislation. 
   To protect the taxpayers, we insisted upon tough oversight and accountability. To further protect the taxpayers, we wanted to make sure that as we bought this illiquid paper that Mr. Paulson was talking about and as we invested capital into these companies that we were helping to make healthy, that the American taxpayer would profit. Mr. Spencer Bachus was quite vocal on that subject when we met that first Thursday night two weeks and one day ago about, if we're going to make these companies healthier, why shouldn't we just invest capital in them so the taxpayer can benefit? 
   And thanks to John Tanner of Tennessee, if this does not pay for itself, as some say that it can, but if there is a shortfall, the taxpayer will be made whole, being paid for by fees on those who have benefited from the program. That recoupment that Mr. Tanner put forth I think is a tremendous advance in this legislation and a protection for the taxpayer. 
   We also reform CEO compensation and put an end the golden parachutes. Our message to Wall Street is: The party is over. No longer will you drive your business into the ground, take a golden parachute to safety and have the taxpayer pick up the tab. And thanks to Congresswoman Maxine Waters, this legislation will do a great deal to help families avoid foreclosure and enable them to stay in their homes. 
   Since the bill came to the floor earlier this week, it has been further improved by increases in insurance for  checking and savings accounts which protect savers, small businesses and community banks across America. 
   I am especially pleased that the plan benefits middle income families with an extension of the $1,000 per couple State and local property tax deduction; $1,000 for those who do not itemize deduction in their property taxes. And I thank Jim Clyburn, our Democratic whip, for his leadership in this regard. 
   I am also pleased that the bill includes an extension of tax cuts for clean and renewable energy that will create and save half a million good-paying jobs in America immediately. This was a part of our energy bill last year. It did not survive the Senate, it now has become part of this legislation, and it is paid for. We fought hard to include these critical tax cuts, again, as I said, in last year's landmark legislation because they are essential to job creation. 
   And aren't we all pleased across America's cause for celebration that the legislation includes the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act? Patrick Kennedy and Mr. Ramstad--I hope he's here so I can convey to him the gratitude of the American people to both of them for their leadership, without which we would not be having this important legislation passed today. It has turned out to be the vehicle for which the whole package is moving. 
   By requiring that illness in the brain be treated just like illness elsewhere in the body for insurance purposes, we're helping to end discrimination against those who seek treatment for mental illness. This legislation will also save lives. 
   So there are some things in here that have been added since the other day that are very important, legislation that has passed the House over and over again, but never could make it through the Senate, and now it has. That doesn't take away from the fact that we've been dealt a mighty bad hand with the core part of this legislation, but it has been improved. It is a compromise, but it is just the start. 
   Passing this legislation is only the beginning of our work to protect the economic future of the American people. With the work in these past 2 weeks, we've seen things we never thought we would see before in terms of the economic insecurity of our own country. With this legislation, $700 billion, we have broken new ground in how we deal with this crisis, but we will not leave it broken. Chairman Waxman, Chairman Peterson and Chairman Frank will hold a series of hearings to determine the origin of the crisis, how regulators and business leaders failed to protect the public interest, and the commonsense, reasonable regulations needed to provide security and stability in the future. 
   We must look ahead. We must look ahead to protect Americans from unsavory lending practices and to bring a better balance to our bankruptcy laws, but today we must begin by passing this bill. And as we do so, we must keep in mind our commitment to fiscal discipline, to not increasing the deficit. That's the overriding question I have from people--well, among others--why so much? Will it work? We'll see. What does it do to our opportunities to invest in the American people? Well, we hope it will pay for itself. And if it doesn't, then the fees will be there to cover it. 
   But apart from that, we cannot get into the thinking that we can just put out all this money without the thought that it will be heaping mountains of debt onto our children unless we have recoupment. And so it is a problem for us as we go into a new presidency and a new Congress. But under the leadership of Mr. Spratt, and working with others in the House and in the Senate and with a new President of the United States, ``no new deficit spending'' must be our mantra. 
   This is a vote with real consequences, a vote that will shape or begin to shape the financial stability of our country and the economic security of our people. It is an important vote, it's a difficult vote, but it is a vote that we must win for the American people. We must win it for Mr. and Mrs. Jones on Main Street.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1424, PAUL WELLSTONE MENTAL HEALTH AND ADDICTION EQUITY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding and for her leadership in bringing the rule to the floor, which will enable us to debate legislation that is very important to many people in America. I thank Mr. Pallone for his leadership on the committee of jurisdiction, a House subcommittee of Energy and Commerce, and I thank Mr. Hastings as well for the opportunity to debate this important issue. 
   This is a very special day in the Congress of the United States. We are all very proud of our work, but there are some days that really stand out as historic, days that represent breakthroughs for America's families. 
   Today we are debating an issue that is relevant to the lives of so many people in our country. And we owe a great debt of gratitude to two of our colleagues, Congressman Patrick Kennedy of Rhode Island and Congressman Ramstad of Minnesota, for their great knowledge of the issue of mental illness and addiction, for their political astuteness of the political process here, and for their generosity of spirit to share their personal experience with us, to use their knowledge of issues relating to mental illness and addiction to benefit so many people in our country. It is painful, I know, and therefore very courageous of them to do so. And simply said, without their leadership, we would not have this opportunity today. So I am pleased to salute the leadership of Congressman Kennedy and Congressman Ramstad. With this legislation, they have given hope to millions of Americans. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the legislation also because illness of the brain must be treated just like illness anywhere else in the body. The Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act is a comprehensive bill to help end discrimination against those who seek treatment for mental illness. 
   There is no shame in mental illness. The great shame would be if Congress did not take action to ensure that individuals with mental health illnesses and addictions are given the attention, treatment, and resources they need to lead a healthy life. 
   This is an issue of national significance. Did you know, and I found the figure startling, every year mental illness results in 1.3 billion lost days of work or school; 1.3 billion days. That adds up to more lost productivity for mental illness than arthritis, stroke, heart attack, and cancer combined. Combined. Yet bipartisan and independent research shows that there is no significant cost to insuring mental illness like any other medical disease. 
   This legislation will be especially relevant for our returning veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan who later become employed in the private sector. This will be potentially life-saving for those brave men and women who served in the National Guard and Reserves but who don't receive VA care for their entire lifetime. 
   Mr. Speaker, to help remove the stigma against mental illness, for the millions suffering from mental illness and addiction, and because it is the right thing for our Nation, I urge my colleagues to support the Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act. It is legislation that is long overdue. It gives hope to millions of people in our country and their families. 
   I urge my colleagues to support the legislation and honor the leadership, the courage, the generosity of spirit of Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Ramstad in making this day possible for us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EXPRESSING THE CONDOLENCES OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ON THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE PAUL E. GILLMOR, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE STATE OF OHIO -- (House of Representatives - September 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentlewoman for yielding on this very sad occasion. I am sad to join my colleagues as we face the very sad news regarding the loss of our colleague, Paul Gillmor. 
   Mr. Speaker, on behalf of all Members of Congress, I rise to pay tribute to Paul Gillmor, who passed away suddenly today. I offer my deepest condolences to his wife, Karen, to his two daughters, Linda and Julie, and his three sons, Paul Michael, Connor, and Adam. How proud he was of his children. That was one thing that we used to chat about quite regularly. I would hear about the progress of the twins and how everybody was doing. 
   Congressman Paul Gillmor was an experienced and talented legislator who spent much of his life serving his country. His service began in the Air Force where he rose to the rank of captain as an Air Force Judge Advocate. As a true Ohioan, Congressman Gillmor then served his State in public office for more than four decades, first in the Ohio State senate where he was elected President of that body, and later here in the House where he also served ably and was held in highest esteem by his colleagues. 
   More interested in policy than in seeking the limelight, Paul Gillmor focused his time here in the House squarely on the needs of his constituents. On the Energy and Commerce Committee, he was deeply involved in consumer issues, including protecting consumers from unfair credit report practices. He also worked to preserve our history by supporting and improving sites honoring our Nation's Presidents. As vice president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Congressman Gillmor was the highest ranking American in this highly esteemed international organization of parliamentary members from the 26 NATO states. 
   Congressman Gillmor's passing is a loss for this House and for our Nation. It is, of course, a greater loss for his family. I hope it is a comfort to them, to Paul's family and friends, that so many people mourn their loss and are praying for them at this sad time. 
   Mr. Speaker, this is a sad day for us because we also learned of the sudden passing of our former colleague, Jennifer Dunn. She was a distinguished former Member of Congress from the State of Washington and I know we will acknowledge her service and leadership in the Congress on another occasion. But getting hit from all sides on this in one day is a great loss for the Congress. 
   As I yield back to the distinguished gentlewoman, I also want to thank her for bringing to the attention of so many Members of Congress the passing of Congressman Vanik who served so ably in this body who passed away last week. Anyone who knows about international human rights knows that Congressman Vanik as part of the Jackson-Vanik amendment did so much to free people in the Soviet Union. He made a very big difference for Soviet Jewry. 
   Ohio has been generous to the country. We mourn the loss of Paul Gillmor and Jennifer Dunn and Charles Vanik, who lived until his 90s, so God blessed him with that long life. 
   God did not give Paul Gillmor a long life, but he gave him a life of great quality with a beautiful family and the opportunity to serve a State he loved and a country that he was very patriotic about. 
   On behalf of all of our colleagues, I extend my deepest sympathy to his family. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES REGARDING THE TERRORIST ATTACKS LAUNCHED AGAINST THE UNITED STATES ON SEPTEMBER 11, 2001 -- (House of Representatives - September 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Thank you, Madam Speaker. I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank him for his leadership in giving us this opportunity today, on September 11, to express our gratitude to our first responders, our sympathy to the families of 9/11, and our concern for the safety of the American people. I acknowledge his leadership role in this from his committee standpoint, but as a New Yorker who knows firsthand the horror of 9/11. So, thank you, Mr. Ackerman, for your leadership and for your commitment on this issue. I also thank Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen for her leadership in bringing this to the floor as well. 
   When Abraham Lincoln was a very young man, not 30 years old, he made a speech in 1838, and in it he was talking about the history of our country and important events and how sometimes they are lost in the public memory. He referred to the ``silent artillery of time,'' sometimes referenced as ``harsh artillery of time,'' but nonetheless, the artillery of time to dull the memory of important events. 
   Certainly, that is a gift if the artillery of time dulls the pain of a terrible loss. But there's no artillery powerful enough to dull the memory of 9/11, what it did to our country, what it attempted to do to our country. 
   The courage of the families of 9/11, who turned their grief into strength, and arguing for better policy in terms of the 9/11 Commission and the enactment of its recommendations to make America safer, their grief through strength to action, has made America safer. We have more to do. 
   The silent artillery of time will never diminish the appreciation or the memory of the courage of our first responders, our police, our firemen, our emergency services people, the construction workers, who went in right away, risking their lives, so that they could save other lives. Some of them lost their lives. 
   The silent artillery of time will never, never dull the act of cowardice on the part of these terrorists. They don't care about life or buildings. They do care about instilling fear. That is their goal, the terrorists, to instill terror. 
   But they did not succeed in that regard, because New York rallied. This morning, we were at the Pentagon to see the families there, and their spirit, as the Pentagon Memorial was dedicated, and referencing what happened in Pennsylvania. The indomitable spirit of the American people is too strong a force for the terrorists to succeed with.  
   So, again, the silent artillery of time will never, ever have us forget what happened to our country on that day, and the hatred and cowardice that inspired it. 
   So, here we are today, 7 years later, saying once again to the families how sorry we are, thanking them for their courage, hoping for the best for them for their children and the future. Here we are today, 7 years later, saying to the first responders, Thank you very much. 
   But, as some others have said here, words are not enough. There are ways that we can put into action our appreciation, and that is to recognize the health needs of those who responded on that day and whose health problems linger to this day, and some that we won't even know about into the future. 
   We will never forget, no matter what, what they did to minimize the toll, the death toll that might have been. We always remember because we have constant reminders of it, as well the courage of these people on a day-to-day basis still across America keeping us safe. 
   On this day, it drives home what we always know, that our first responsibility as elected officials is to protect the American people, make them safe in their homes, neighborhoods, towns, and communities, and ensure their national security. That is something that we must do, working together, so that we can meet any threat to our security, wherever it may occur. 
   In that spirit, I want to acknowledge also the courage, patriotism, and sacrifice of our men and women in uniform and their sacrifices that they are making, and that their families are making, to keep America safe. 
   So with all the respect in the world for President Lincoln when he was a young man, talking about the silent artillery of time, his message reminds us that, again, time may lessen pain, but it will never diminish our memory of what happened on 9/11, the courage that followed, and the responsibility we have to keep the American people safe. 
   God bless those families. They have done so much for our country, fresh off their tragedy. God bless those families. With their courage, God truly blessed America.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for his kind words and for his more than extraordinary leadership on behalf of America's veterans while they are in the service, in terms of the quality of their life which is addressed in this legislation, and when they become veterans, and how he has had the well-being of America's veterans as a priority for so long in his political year. 
   Mr. Chairman, today is probably one of the top three happiest days of my official life, because today is a day where, under the leadership of Mr. Edwards, Mr. Spratt, Mr. Obey, Mr.  Skelton, Mr. Murtha, this Congress of the United States is able to keep its promises to America's veterans. It's a day of respect for them. 
   In the military, soldiers say, we will not leave any soldier on the battlefield. We say, when they come home, we will not leave any veteran behind. That is why, under the leadership of Mr. Edwards in his capacity as a leader on this issue, and I will add Mr. Filner's name to those I'm commending, but a person of the focus and values of Mr. Edwards kept this issue front and center. 
   For the past 4 1/2 , 5 years, we have met on a regular basis with the veterans organizations and representatives of veterans from across the country. We asked them what their priorities were, because their needs were so great; and frankly, their concerns were so neglected for the last few years that we said, we cannot try to do everything. What are your priorities? This was when we were in the minority. 
   Their first priority, the first couple of years there was the concurrent receipt issue, this veterans disability tax, which we made some progress on. And the next term, which was the last term, we were still in the minority. We still took a piece of what their agenda was, and that was survivors' benefits. All of these were important to the veterans, but there were many more concerns that we had. 
   So it wasn't until the Democrats assumed the majority that we could keep the promise of America to America's veterans. That's why it was so thrilling to be with the representatives of the veterans groups, some of them I will name, the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Disabled Veterans of America, the Paralyzed Veterans of America, AMVETS, that's the American Veterans, then the Iraq and Afghan Veterans of America, to be with them and other representatives of veterans a couple of days ago when we stood in front of the Capitol and announced that today, with this vote, under Chairman Chet Edwards' leadership, we would be giving the largest increase in the history of our country and in the 77-year history of the Veterans Administration. 
   Why is that necessary? Because there is a backlog of several hundred thousand cases at the VA. That's an injustice. That's an immorality. And there were needed more case workers to address a 2-year backlog, if you had an issue, you went there and you had to wait 2 years if you were a veteran. 
   Well, the veterans were there when they were needed. They heeded the call. They came to our defense, and now we're saying, wait 2 years for us to consider your case. Just not right. Just not right. 
   So in preparation for a possible Democratic majority where we could work in a bipartisan way, the veterans put together a budget, again emphasizing their priorities.     
   And when they did, we took that budget. Congress worked its will on it through the appropriations process to bring us to the floor today. Every one of us in the committee, it was a bipartisan unanimous vote, 56-0, in the Appropriations Committee. 
   I hope we will have a similar vote today because, as Mr. Edwards said, starting with the budget process under Mr. Spratt to the larger Appropriations Committee under Chairman Obey and now to this moment on the floor under Chairman Edwards' leadership, we were able to give the biggest possible bipartisan vote to this increase. And it is paid for. 
   When Democrats took control of the House, we instituted pay-as-you-go, no new deficit spending, no increase to the deficit. So that is why this is especially, especially, important because this says that even within the constraints, those budgetary constraints, veterans aren't the priority. In our budget the two leading priorities were America's children and America's veterans. In the appropriations process, we are able to honor that blueprint set forth in the budget again without adding to the deficit, without increasing the deficit. That makes it harder, but that signaled in a very important way that when we talk about our priorities and we say that veterans are in the forefront of them, they are in the lead in terms of the values that we have, a reflection of America's values that, even though there are difficult budgetary constraints, veterans come first. 
   This is an issue in urban America. It is a big issue in rural America. In rural America, 75 percent of the people know somebody closely who is serving or has served in Iraq and Afghanistan, and everybody in our country knows many people who have served in the military. Four of my brothers served in the military. 
   We all have a dedication to our veterans. It is more than, though, just talking about it. We had to act upon those words, act upon those values. And I thank Chairman Chet Edwards for giving us that opportunity today to reward our heroes with something that we are giving to them. It is something that they deserve, have been deprived of, but that has come to an end. 
   So I hope we have a unanimous vote on this to show the bipartisan support for veterans that I know exists in our Congress. I am just very, very proud that we were able to deliver on the promise once we took the majority of the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (TRADE AND GLOBALIZATION ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 31, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and for his important work on keeping America number one. 
   In recent years, the increasing global market has brought many opportunities but has also created unprecedented challenges as to how we address the increased economic insecurity faced by many of America's working families. For a long time, unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, trade policy has focused more on opening new markets and has dismissed the real consequences of those faced by those who lose their jobs as well as their communities across America that are hard hit. 
   Democrats recognize that our economic future rests with our ability to open new markets for U.S. goods, especially since our markets are already largely open to our trading partners. However, the status quo is not working, and we must do much more to help American workers compete and thrive in the increasingly competitive global market. That is the purpose of this important legislation before us, the trade adjustment assistance bill. 
   Mr. Speaker, being from Massachusetts, I'm sure you've read in the history books, for somebody of my age I recall, when President Kennedy called for the, called upon the American people with his challenge to put a man on the Moon and have him safely return within 10 years. It was very, very exciting. It was almost unbelievable, but it did happen. Why I mention it, though, is because in his remarks at that time, President Kennedy said, if we are to honor the vows of our Founders, we must be first, and therefore we intend to be first. For our science and industry, for peace and security, we must be first. And that's what this is about today, how America can continue to be number one. 
   We have worked together with that Innovation Agenda in that spirit; the Innovation Agenda, much of which has been passed overwhelmingly in a bipartisan way by the Congress and signed into law by President Bush. And it will help promote, will make serious and sustained investments in research and development, help promote the public-private partnerships that will develop  high-risk, high-reward ideas into marketable technologies and more jobs for American workers. In other words, we're saying, if we are going to compete successfully, we must innovate, and that innovation begins in the classroom. 
   So Democrats recognize in the global knowledge-based economy, America's greatest resource for innovation and economic growth resides within America's classrooms, and we have made a new commitment to encouraging students and encouraging highly qualified teachers in the field of math, science and engineering. 
   We've also made higher education more affordable and accessible. Again, in the strong bipartisan way voted by the House, we passed the College Cost Reduction and Access Act. That was signed into law by the President and has made the largest investment in college affordability since the GI Bill was passed in 1944, a bill that was referenced by our colleague, Mr. Sestak, earlier. 
   We've also forged a new approach for free trade agreements where, for the first time, Democrats in Congress and Republicans, working with Mr. McCrery and Mr. Rangel, the chairman, working with the administration, were able to forge a new approach. For the first time, enforceable basic labor rights and environmental standards will be included in free trade agreements negotiated by the Bush administration ensuring that our trading partners do not lure American jobs abroad through the use of weak labor laws and lax environmental standards. 
   Today's bill is the next step in our agenda to expand economic security. It's a departure from the status quo. The current trade adjustment assistance initiative does not do enough to help those who lose their jobs through no fault of their own. 
   Specifically, as has been mentioned before, the bill will dramatically expand the number of workers who will qualify for TAA benefits. This is very important. It will offer increased funding and options for workers' training so that individuals can pursue substantive training programs that lead to higher paying jobs. It will expand access to health care by strengthening and streamlining the health care tax credit and other health benefits so that workers are not forced to live without health care as they search for a new job. And it will revitalize communities decimated by manufacturing job loss with tax incentives. Those are some of the provisions of this important legislation. 
   This would represent a huge step forward. This would say to the American people and the American workers who have lost their jobs or are concerned about losing their jobs to trade that they are not alone. 
   The bill represents a renewed commitment to helping American workers who have lost their job through no fault of their own. Free and fair trade can only thrive if we help those who are facing the downside of a global economy. 
   In the coming months, Democrats will continue to lay out a positive agenda to ensure economic growth and economic security for America's families. We will continue to pursue a positive agenda to keep America number one. I urge our colleagues to oppose the substitute and to support the underlying legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - September 29, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Thank you very much, Madam Speaker, for recognizing me, and also to the distinguished chairman for his extraordinary leadership which I will address in a moment. 
   Madam Speaker, when was the last time anyone ever asked you for $700 billion? It is a staggering figure. And many questions have arisen from that request, and we have been hearing I think a very informed debate on all sides of this issue today. I am very proud of the debate. Seven hundred billion dollars, a staggering number, but only a part of the cost of the failed Bush economic policies to our country, policies that were built on budget recklessness. 
   When President Bush took office, he inherited President Clinton's surpluses; 4 years in a row budget surpluses on a trajectory of $5.6 trillion in surplus. And with his reckless economic policies, within 2 years he had turned that around. And now 8 years later, the foundation of that fiscal irresponsibility, combined with an anything-goes economic policy, has taken us to where we are today. 
   They claim to be free market advocates when it is really an anything-goes mentality. No regulation, no supervision, no discipline. And if you fail, you will have a golden parachute and the taxpayer will bail you out. Those days are over. The party is over in that respect. 
   Democrats believe in a free market. We know that it can create jobs, it can create wealth and many things in our economy. But in this case, in its unbridled form, as encouraged, supported by the Republicans, some in the Republican Party, not all, it has created not jobs, not capital, it has created chaos. And it is about that chaos that the Secretary of the Treasury and the chairman of the Fed came to see us just about a week and a half ago. It seems like an eternity, doesn't it. So much has happened, the news was so bad. 
   They described a very, very dismal situation, a dismal situation describing the state of our economy, the fragility of our financial institutions, and the instability of our markets--our equity markets, our credit markets, our bond markets. And here we were, listening to people who know of what they spoke. The Secretary of the Treasury brings long credentials and knowledge of the markets. More fearful, though, to me, more scary, were the statements of Chairman Bernanke because Chairman Bernanke is probably one of the foremost authorities in America on the subject of the Great Depression. I don't know what was so great about the depression, but that's the name they give it. 
   And we heard the Secretary and the Chairman tell us that this was a once in a hundred-year phenomenon, this fiscal crisis was so drastic. Certainly once in 50 years, probably once in 100 years. And how did it sneak up on us so silently, almost on little cat's feet, that they would come in on that day. And they didn't actually ask for that much money that night. It took 2 days until we saw the legislation that they were proposing to help calm the markets. It was on that day that we learned of a $700 billion request. 
   But it wasn't just the money that was alarming, it was the nature of the legislation. It gave the Secretary of the Treasury czar-like powers, unlimited powers, latitude to do all kinds of things; and specifically prohibited judicial review or review of any other Federal administrative agency to review their actions. 
   Another aspect that was alarming, it gave the Secretary the power to use any money that came back from these infusions of cash to be used at the discretion of the Secretary, not to reduce the deficit, not to go into the general fund so we could afford other priorities, to be used at the discretion of the Secretary. It was shocking. 
   Working together in a bipartisan way, we were able to make major improvements on that proposal even though its fundamental basis was almost arrogant and insulting. 
   The American people responded almost immediately. Overwhelmingly they said that they know something needs to be done. Seventy-eight percent of the American people said: Congress must act. Fifty-eight percent said: but not to accept the Bush proposal. 
   And so here we are today, a week and a couple of days later, coming to the floor with a product, not a bill that I would have written, one that has major disappointments for me beginning with the fact that it does not have bankruptcy in this bill, and we will continue to persist and work to achieve that. 
   It is interesting to me, though, when they described the magnitude of the challenge and the precipice that we were on and how we had to act quickly and we had to act boldly and we had to act now, that it never occurred to them that the consequences of this market were being felt well in advance by the American people. That unemployment is up; and, therefore, we need unemployment insurance. That jobs are lacking; and, therefore, we need a stimulus package. 
   So how on the one hand could this be so urgent at the moment, and yet so unnecessary for us to address the effects of this poor economy in the households of America across our country? We will come back to that in a moment. 
   Working together, we put together some standards. I am really proud of what Barney Frank did in this regard. 
   That first night, Thursday night when we got the very, very dismal news he immediately said: If we are going to do this--and Spencer Bachus was part of this as well--if we are going to do this, we must have equity for the American people. We are putting $700 billion; we want the American people to get some of the upside. So fairness for the American people. 
   Secondly, as they described the root of the problem as the mortgage-backed securities, Barney insisted that we would have forbearance on foreclosure. If we are now going to own that paper, that we would have forbearance to help responsible homeowners stay in their homes. 
   In addition to that, we had to have strong, strong oversight. We didn't even have to see the $700 billion or the full extent of their bill to know that we needed equity and upside for the taxpayer, forbearance for the homeowner, oversight by the government on what they were doing, and something that  the American people understand full well, an end to the golden parachutes and a review and reform of the compensation for CEOs. 
   Let's get this straight. We have a situation where on Wall Street, people are flying high. They are making unconscionable amounts of money. They make a lot of money. They privatize the gain. The minute things go tough, they nationalize the risk. They get a golden parachute as they drive their firm into the ground, and the American people have to pick up the tab.     
   Something is very, very wrong with this picture. 
   So just on first blush that Thursday night, we made it clear--meeting much resistance on the part of the administration--those four things, equity, forbearance, oversight, and reform of compensation. 
   Overriding all of this is the protection of the taxpayer. We need to stabilize the markets, and in doing so, we need to protect the taxpayers. And that's why I'm so glad that this bill contains suggestions made by Mr. Tanner that if at the end of the day, say, in 5 years when we can take a review of the success or whatever of this initiative, that if there is a shortfall and we don't get our whole $700 billion back that we have invested, that there will be an initiative to have the financial institutions that benefited from this program to make up that shortfall. But not one penny of this should be carried by the American people. 
   People ask--and Mr. Spratt spoke with great knowledge and eloquence on the budget and aspects of the budget--$700 billion; what is the impact, what is the opportunity cost for our country of the investments that we would want to make? 
   Okay. Now we have it at a place where the taxpayer is going to be made whole, and that was very important for us. But why on the drop of a hat can they ask us for $700 billion and we couldn't get any support from the administration on a stimulus package that would also help grow the economy? 
   People tell me all over the world that the biggest emerging economic market in the world is rebuilding the infrastructure of America: roads, bridges, waterways, water systems in addition to waterways, the grid, broadband, schools, housing. We're trillions of dollars in deficit there. We know what we need to do to do it in a fiscally sound way, in a fiscally sound way that creates good paying jobs in America immediately, brings money into the Treasury by doing so and, again, does all of this in an all-American way: good paying jobs here in America. We can't get the time of day for $25, $35 billion for that which we know guarantees jobs, et cetera, but $700 billion. 
   So make no mistake: When this Congress adjourns today to observe Rosh Hashanah and have Members go home for a bit, we are doing so at the call of the Chair because this subject is not over, this discussion about how we save our economy. And we must insulate Main Street from Wall Street. 
   As Congresswoman Waters said, Martin Luther King Drive, and in my district Martin Luther King Drive and Cesar Chavez Road, and all of the manifestations of community and small businesses in our community, we must insulate them from that. 
   So we have difficult choices, and so many of the things that were said on both sides of this issue in terms of its criticisms of the bill we have and the bill that we had at first and the very size of this, I share. You want to go home, so I'm not going to list all of my concerns that I have with it. 
   But it just comes down to one simple thing. They have described a precipice. We are on the brink of doing something that might pull us back from that precipice. I think we have a responsibility. We have worked in a bipartisan way. I want to acknowledge Mr. Blunt and Mr. Boehner of the work that we've done together in trying to find as much common ground as possible on this. 
   But we insisted the taxpayer be covered. We all insisted that we have a party-is-over message to Wall Street, and we insisted that the taxpayers at risk must recover; any risks must be recovered. I have told you that already. 
   So, my colleagues, let's recognize that this legislation is not the end of the line. Mr. Waxman will be having vigorous oversight this week, hearings this week, on regulatory reform and other aspects of it. I hope you will pursue fraud and mismanagement and the rest. 
   Mr. Frank and his committee will continue to pursue other avenues that we can stabilize the markets and protect the taxpayer. 
   For too long this government in 8 years has followed a right-wing ideology of anything goes: no supervision, no discipline, no regulation. Again, all of us are believers in free markets, but we have to do it right. 
   Now let me again acknowledge the extraordinary leadership of Mr. Frank. He's been an exceptional leader in the Congress, but never has his knowledge and his experience and his judgment been more needed than now. And I thank you, Mr. Frank, for your exceptional leadership, Mr. Chairman. 
   So many people worked on this, but I also want to acknowledge the distinguished Chair of our caucus, Mr. Emanuel. His knowledge of the markets, the respect he commands on those subjects, and his boundless energy on the subject served us well in these negotiations. 
   But this is a bipartisan initiative that we are bringing to the floor. We have to have a bipartisan vote on this. That is the only message that will send a message of confidence to the markets. 
   I know that we will be able to live up to our side of the bargain. I hope the Republicans will, too. 
   But my colleagues, as you go home and see your families and observe the holiday and the rest, don't get settled in too far because as long as this challenge is there for the American people--the threat of losing their jobs, their credit, their savings, their retirement, the opportunity for them to send their children to college--as long as in the households of America this crisis is being felt very immediately and being addressed at a different level, we must come back. And we will come back as soon and as often as necessary to make the change that is necessary. 
   And before long, we will have a new Congress, a new President of the United States, and we will be able to take our country in a new direction. 
   Thank you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 -- (House of Representatives - March 29, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Chairman, today this new Congress will put America's fiscal house in order. It will do so by presenting and voting on the Democratic budget as designed by Mr. Spratt, the chairman of the Budget Committee, and the House Democrats. I wish that it were coming to the floor with bipartisan support in the Congress. I know it has bipartisan support in the country. 
   I commend Mr. Spratt for his exceptional leadership in bringing to the floor a budget for the future, a budget that will initiate an era of accountability in government spending and in government accountability on our priorities. It is a budget that will come to balance in both the spending and also in terms of its priorities. 
   This putting our house in order is necessary because for the last 6 years the Bush administration and the Republicans in Congress have increased spending while giving tax cuts to the wealthiest few in our country, leaving our country awash in red ink, mortgaging our children's future. It is just not right. 
   When President Bush took office, he inherited a budget situation because of the PAYGO principles adopted by the Clinton administration with the Democrats in the Congress. Because of those principles, the last four Clinton budgets were budgets in surplus. Because of those PAYGO principles, coming out of the Clinton years, we were on a trajectory of $5.6 trillion in surplus, $5.6 trillion in surplus on our way to ridding ourselves of the national debt. 
   Because of the irresponsible budgeting of the Republicans in Congress and in the White House, we are now on a trajectory of $3 trillion in deficit, a swing of approximately $9 trillion. This is historic, and, again, it is wrong. It is wrong for our children. It mortgages their future. It is wrong for our economy. 
   The fiscal unaccountability will be corrected today with the passage of this budget, and I commend Chairman  Spratt and the Democrats on the committee for taking us to this place. Just imagine, we were on our way to ridding ourselves of the national debt. We are now on our way to increasing it. 
   The budget put forth by the chairman is one that honors our responsibilities to the American people. A budget should be a statement of our national values. Our Federal budget should reflect what is important to us as a Nation. That is how we should allocate our resources. We should do it in an ethical way and a fiscally sound way and the most honest and open way. And we must do it always with an eye to the future, and that is what this budget does. 
   It honors our responsibility first and foremost to protect the American people, and that is why it has the endorsement of almost every veterans group, and they are actively supporting this legislation and advocating a ``yes'' vote. 
   It honors our commitment to grow our economy, to create good paying jobs for the future by investing in innovation, and that is why it has the support of the Council of Competitiveness and almost any entity that is geared to the future, to innovation and to make keeping America number one. 
   It honors our commitment to our children, how they are cared for, with their health care, with their education and the economic strengths of their families. That is why it has the support of so many organizations, religious organizations, who see a budget as a moral document. 
   It honors our commitment to preserve our planet for the future, and that is why it has the support right to left, Democratic and Republican, nonpartisan, nonconflict, any entity that you can name involved in preserving our planet, in energy independence and respecting God's creation, which nature is, honoring our commitment to nature and to the future, preserving the planet. This budget does that. 
   Again, it does it all in a fiscally sound way. No new deficit spending; pay-as-you-go. 
   Think about what was inherited by this Congress. Think about what was inherited by this Congress 6 years ago and the President, $5.6 trillion in surplus, now we are $3 trillion in a trajectory of deficit. It is just not right. We can reverse it today. 
   Again, the support outside this Congress indicates that the American people are so far ahead of the Congress of the United States when they think about our values and how our budget should reflect those values, about accountability and how responsible we should be for the taxpayers' dollars and about the future. 
   So I urge my colleagues to support the Spratt House Democratic budget. To vote ``aye'' on that is a vote for the future. It is a vote for a new era of accountability. It is a vote for a moral statement, a statement of our national values. I thank Mr. Spratt for his leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (COMPREHENSIVE AMERICAN ENERGY SECURITY AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - September 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding and his recognition of the fact that this legislation is indeed a compromise. It isn't the bill that any one of us would have written individually, but it brings us together in consensus. I want to thank the distinguished chairman of the National Resources Committee, Mr. Rahall, for his extraordinary leadership on this bill. 
   This is a difficult bill because we all had to come from different directions on it, and we've come to agreement. 
   I want to also acknowledge the important work that was done by Gene Green, Congressman Gene Green of Texas; by George Miller, the Chair of the Education and Labor Committee; and John Dingell, the Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee, all of whom who are cochairs of this important legislation. 
   I would like to acknowledge Charlie Rangel, the Chair of the Ways and Means Committee for the provisions from his bill in this bill, and Neil Abercrombie who really tried to bring as many of the provisions of the legislation he was cosponsoring into this legislation so that it really did reflect the thinking of our colleagues on both sides of the aisle, if not to get the support from both. 
   I also want to acknowledge Congresswoman Slaughter for her input. And Mr. Abercrombie has joined us. Thank you, Mr. Abercrombie. I'm pleased to acknowledge your great leadership on this, this step in the right direction with certainly more to come. 
   I want to remind our colleagues or inform, for those who may not have been born yet, that in 1973 during that energy crisis, President Nixon became the first President to call for American energy independence. In his 1974 State of the Union address, President Nixon said that the United States should ``not be dependent on any other country for the energy we need to provide our jobs, to heat our homes, and to keep our transportation moving.'' He promised energy independence within 6 years. That would be by 1980. In 1974, he had that vision. 
   President Nixon was the first to make such a call, but certainly not the last. Practically every national leader in the intervening 33 years has called for energy independence. 
   Today, this House of Representatives has the opportunity to take this country in a new direction on energy and make that energy independence happen. We have this opportunity with the comprehensive, I call it All American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act. 
   The legislation we debate today is a bold step forward that will help us end our dependence on foreign oil and strengthen our national security. And protecting the American people is our first responsibility, and so I list that first among the goals and the provisions of this legislation. 
   The legislation is a result of reasonable compromise that will put us on a path toward energy independence by expanding domestic supply of oil drilled offshore, and expanding domestic supply of energy by investing in renewable energy resources. It will protect consumers with strong action to lower the cost of energy and to protect taxpayers by making Big Oil pay for its fair share of our transition to a clean, renewable energy future. 
   It will ensure a clean, green energy future through energy efficiency and conservation. It will commit America to renewable energy and help create millions of good paying green jobs. It will do so by rearranging the financial relationship between the American people, their oil, and Big Oil. 
   Right now I think that the arrangement is a real rip-off of the American taxpayer and the American consumer. And so we say in this legislation to Big Oil, if you want to drill--and to others, but particularly to Big Oil--if you want to drill in the Outer Continental Shelf, let's talk about that. 
   We're in the position that we are today because for 8 years, President Bush has requested a moratorium on drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf.  In recent months, he reversed his policy. And this is a reversal not only of his policy but of decades of policy that had prohibited drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf. 
   So as a result of his lifting the moratorium on drilling, starting after September 30 at the end of this fiscal year, it will be possible for the U.S. Government to provide leases to companies to drill 3 miles--3 miles--off the coast of our coastal States with no consent from the States. It will be 3 miles, leases given by the Federal Government. 
   And that's why in order to remedy that, this legislation strikes a compromise and a balance by saying, yes, if you're going to drill offshore, it has to be 50 miles offshore and it has to have an opt-in by the State. The State has to agree that you can drill. The Federal Government can give leases to the private sector to drill 50 miles offshore. 
   And it also says the following in terms of the financial arrangement. Right now, the status quo, which is what some of our Republican friends want to perpetuate, the status quo is the following: the oil belongs to the American people, and yet Big Oil drills for that oil subsidized by the U.S. taxpayer. At a time when Big Oil's enjoying record and historic profits, they still insist that the U.S. taxpayer subsidize their drilling and have had royalty holidays of paying the taxpayer for the taxpayers' oil which they have been drilling. 
   So what we're saying in this legislation is that day is over. Now if you want to drill, you're on your own. In the private sector, in the free market, you're on your own. The American people are not subsidizing that drilling. And, by the way, we want our share of the royalties. And lifting the subsidies and getting our royalties, including going back to the royalty holidays of the 1990s, by doing that we will be able to invest in America's energy future by using those funds to invest in renewable energy resources, whether it's wind or solar, biofuels, other clean alternatives. 
   We'll be able to use that money from that offshore drilling, by now finally getting the taxpayers' fair share, to invest and provide more support for LIHEAP, the low income heating initiative, so important to so many, many families in America and even more so in this time of economic uncertainty. And to invest in our lands and conservation fund, some of the provisions which were in the original bill that Mr. Abercrombie was supporting. So we took up some of the investments that he would make from the royalties that we would recoup and also from not providing subsidies to Big Oil. 
   Many of us have thought for a long time that there was something wrong with this relationship. Our oil, their profits, we subsidize, we don't get the full benefit of that. But it was only recently that we saw how wrong something was with that relationship. It tells us again and again why it is time for a new direction. And nothing demonstrates that more clearly, I think, than the recent scandal in the Bush Interior Department. 
   On the Republicans' watch, Interior Department officials accepted football tickets, ski trips, golf outings, and other favors in return for rigging contracts to benefit Big Oil. They engaged in illicit behavior that gives new meaning to the words ``cozy relationship'' between the Republicans and Big Oil. 
   These Republican officials, one of whom pled guilty just yesterday to corruption charges, were in charge of collecting billions of dollars' worth of oil and natural gas last year alone from companies allowed to drill on Federal lands and offshore. It just isn't right. 
   So when I said earlier that this was a rip, it's a rip and it's corrupt, and it must be changed. I think all Americans believe that it's time for an oil change in America. 
   The Democrats stand for that change. Democrats demand it. Republicans are demanding the status quo, but not all Republicans. Many have been involved, though they may not specifically approve of this particular bill, many of the provisions in this legislation were provisions advocated by Republicans in their bipartisan legislation with Mr. Abercrombie. 
   The status quo, as has been suggested by some, will not bring down the price at the pump. The status quo will not protect taxpayers from subsidizing Big Oil, and the status quo will certainly not make America energy independent. It's time for a new direction. It's time for us to set aside partisan politics on this issue. This should not be an issue on which we are divided. 
   The protection of our country by assuring energy independence, the creation of new jobs through a new energy green industry in our country with renewable energy resources, the assurance that we will never be in this position again because not only are we expanding the domestic supply of oil, but we are also investing in renewable and other alternatives; and also that, again, security, environmental protection, economic entrepreneurialship in this legislation and a moral responsibility to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and on fossil fuel, to do so in a way that reverses global warming, which in my view is a moral responsibility if you believe, and I think everyone does, that this beautiful planet is God's creation and we have a moral responsibility to preserve it and preserve it in a way that is fair to all of the people who inhabit this planet. And in our case, we're talking about the American people. 
   So, again, this comprehensive energy package is a result of compromise in favor of sweeping and innovative solutions to America's energy future. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join together to support a clean, renewable energy future by supporting this comprehensive legislation. 
   Once again, I salute all of those who participated in bringing us to this compromise: some intentionally, some by the basic work that they've been doing in the Congress for a long time and may not, again, support this legislation today but have put their stamp of approval on many of the provisions that they had suggested in other legislation and which we have been pleased to pick up where we had bipartisan agreement. 
   So I'm very excited about this. This is a very important day in our energy story for America. And I commend all who worked so hard, and so many people did. But we recognize it's only a first step. There are many more issues to be dealt with, more progress to be made, but we cannot wait for that to happen. 
   In the meantime, I'm pleased that in this legislation we have our legislation related to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve which, if the oil is released, which we have asked the President to do, will immediately bring down the price at the pump within 10 days instead of 10 years--which would be the length of time it would take to bring the price down for 2 cents. Two cents, 10 years; 10 days, our bill. 
   The President originally resisted. Now he says he may release from the SPR not because Congress asked but because Big Oil asked. 
   It's about time we got the leverage back to the American people, recognized our need to meet their needs, to protect the consumer and the taxpayer, to keep them safe with energy independence, to grow our economy through good green jobs, and to make sure that we never find ourselves in this situation by making investments in renewable energy resources.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Chairman, last evening the airport at Sao Paolo, Brazil was a scene of a terrible tragedy that took the lives of as many as 200 people. Among those lost was a member of the Chamber of Deputies, Representative Julio Redecker, the Brazilian House minority leader. 
   As fate would have it, many of us here today were scheduled to have a meeting with him and the President of the Chamber of Deputies here in the Capitol. Of course, the tragedy in Brazil and the loss of Representative Redecker changed those plans, very sadly. 
   Moments ago I spoke with the Brazilian President of the Chamber of Deputies, Arlindo Chinaglia; and Brazil's Ambassador to the United States, Antonio Patriota. I conveyed to them the deepest sympathy of the Members of the House of Representatives to the people of Brazil, to the family of Representative Redecker. They were, I think, very comforted by the fact that I told them that later today, now, we would have a moment of silence and extend our sympathy to the people of Brazil for the terrible loss of 200 people and, of course, the special sympathy to our friend in the Chamber of Deputies and to the family of Representative Redecker for the loss of the minority leader of that important chamber. 
   I now ask that the House observe a moment of silence in remembrance of Julio Redecker and all of those who lost their lives in Brazil yesterday evening. 
   The Acting CHAIRMAN. Members will rise and the House will observe a moment of silence. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (COLLEGE COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 11, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your great leadership in bringing us to this historic day. I thank all of the other members of the committee for their leadership in making this day possible, for expanding America's middle class, for giving opportunity to America's children, and for making our future brighter. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007. 
   In 1944, when the GI Bill of Rights became law, our Nation made a decision. They made a decision to invest in the future. It was an investment that transformed the lives of millions of Americans. It transformed America to the benefit of all Americans. Indeed, it built America. 
   Over the years, the GI Bill offered opportunity and economic security through education to more than 20 million of the brave men and women who wore our Nation's uniform. It has given America hundreds of thousands of engineers, teachers and doctors, and it has given us a model for the value of investing in the education of our people for our country. 
   Today, with this legislation, we will make the single largest increase in college aid since the GI Bill of Rights revolutionized America. It is an investment for a bright future for our children, and, just as the GI Bill has been, an investment in a bright future for our Nation. 
   Any economist will tell you that any dollar spent on education is a dollar that makes a big return to our Treasury. In fact, no dollar invested or spent, no tax credit, no financial initiative you can name brings more money to the Treasury than investing in education. 
   I want to again thank Chairman Miller and the distinguished members of the Education and Labor Committee for their leadership in making sure higher education is affordable and accessible. 
   In today's competitive job market, a college education often makes all the difference. Americans with college degrees can earn 60 percent more than those with only a high school diploma. So in the interests of individuals, this is very, very important. Indeed, higher education is the single best investment our young people can make in themselves, that families can make in the success of their children, and our country can make in its future strength. 
   It is important to note why this legislation is very important. Financial barriers will prevent 4 1/2 million high school graduates from attending a 4-year public college over the next decade and prevent another 2 million high school graduates from attending any college at all. Over 6 1/2 million students will not have access to some college or any college at all. 
   Higher education, as we all know, is the key to achieving the American dream. This legislation has made sure that all who are qualified and determined to have that education will have access to it. 
   It has been said that cutting interest rates in half will make it possible for more Americans to achieve their potential. This is especially important for strengthening the middle class. Middle-income families in America struggle to educate their children. This interest rate cut is very important for them. By increasing the maximum Pell Grant scholarship by over $500, nearly 6 million students will be given help to afford expanding college costs. 
   In hearing the debate on the cost, I think that it is important to note that the cost of this bill is the equivalent of 6 weeks in Iraq; 6 weeks in Iraq. Imagine that, for 6 weeks in Iraq, we can expand higher education to all who wish to achieve it in America. That investment has a return to our Treasury. It will grow our economy and prepare us for the future. 
   This legislation is a very important part of our Innovation Agenda, where we do need to invest in many more scientists, engineers and mathematicians. By giving opportunities to highly qualified teachers in our classrooms for this Innovation Agenda, it provides an essential component for a bright future for our Nation. It will provide up-front tuition for highly qualified teachers who agree to teach in high-needs areas, increase loan forgiveness for those who practice civic responsibility and encourage students to give back to their communities as teachers, librarians, childcare and welfare workers and public sector employees. 
   Members have talked about this over and over again. The fact is that, again, for the cost of 6 weeks in Iraq, we can ensure the education of our young people across the broad spectrum of America. We can reward those who want to be civically involved as teachers. It is all paid for. 
   Today, we are not only relieving the debt of America's students, but doing so in a way that not only helps relieve their debt but does not heap mountains of national debt on top of our young people. This legislation keeps our promise to pay as you go with no new deficit spending. Democrats believe that is just as essential as ensuring that American students have the opportunity to attend college. 
   Mr. Speaker, the College Cost Reduction Act strengthens the future for our students and it strengthens our Nation. I think, again, that this is a historic day, because it is a day that is about the American dream. It is a day about expanding opportunity in our country. It is a day that recognizes that the best dollar that we can spend is a dollar spent on education. It recognizes that education is the key to a brilliant future, not only for the self-fulfillment of our people, but for the success of our country. It is about our self-fulfillment personally. It is about growing our economy. It is about our National security. It is about carrying the banner of our Founders who have made a commitment to future generations. 
   Thank you, Chairman Miller, and members of the Committee on Education and Labor, for helping us honor that commitment to future generations. I urge our colleagues to support this very important and historic legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (ORDERLY AND RESPONSIBLE IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - November 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding and appreciate his leadership in bringing this important legislation, the Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act. 
   Mr. Speaker, on Monday, America honored our veterans, something that we do every day in our hearts but which we openly celebrated on that day. I am very proud that this year we could celebrate also the biggest increase in veterans benefits in the 77-year history of the Veterans Administration thanks to the New Direction Congress. 
   Yesterday, the President of the United States signed the Defense appropriations bill with the biggest increase in defense spending, made necessary because we must rebuild the capacity of our troops, which capacity has been weakened by the war in Iraq. And today, we bring before the Congress new direction legislation regarding the orderly and responsible redeployment of our troops out of Iraq. 
   This legislation is necessary because whatever you may have thought about the war or the conduct of the war or the origin of the war, whatever you may think about the performance of the Iraqi Government there, and I have my views on that subject, the fact is we can no longer militarily sustain the deployment in Iraq. Staying there in the manner that we are there is no longer an option. 
   Our troops have performed their duties magnificently, excellently, patriotically, and courageously. We owe them the deepest gratitude for their courage, their patriotism, and the sacrifices that they and their families are willing to make. But even as they tried  to create and had their military successes, God bless them for that, the secure framework was established to enable the Iraqi Government to make the political change necessary to end the civil war. Well, the sacrifice of our troops was simply not met by the actions of the Iraqi Government. 
   How much longer should we expect our young people to risk their lives, their limbs, their families, for an Iraqi Government that is not willing to step up to the plate? 
   This legislation today offers something fundamentally different from what President Bush is proposing, a 10-year war, a war without end, costing trillions of dollars at the expense of our military readiness. In fact, it offers something different than this House has done before. Indeed, it provides the tools to our troops so that they can get their jobs done with the greatest respect for that job. But it also presents a strategy that will bring them home responsibly, honorably, safely, and soon. 
   The legislation is different because it ties the funding to a strategy for redeployment. It is different because the funding provided is for the short term so that we can measure the administration's plan, if there is such a plan, to redeploy the troops on the schedule established in this bill. 
   We do have a military crisis not seen since Vietnam. Equipment is wearing out and needs to be replaced. Our troops, wherever they are, are only being trained for counterinsurgency in Iraq instead of a wider training for a full range of missions that they may be called on to perform. The deployment schedule of the Bush administration is wearing down our forces, plain and simple. 
   The distinguished chairman of the Armed Services Committee has made this readiness issue the cornerstone of his opposition to this war in Iraq. The distinguished chairman of the appropriations subcommittee on Defense has told us over and over again that this deployment in Iraq cannot be sustained without weakening our national security, without diminishing the capacity of our armed services to meet challenges to our national security wherever they may occur. As such, this readiness crisis poses a grave threat to America's national security. 
   Yet under the President's plan, and this was expressed by representatives of the administration on more than one occasion, the President's plan would bring 30,000 troops, the number of troops that were sent in for the surge, that 30,000 troops would be redeployed back to the U.S. by July of 2008. So let's understand this. This means that by July of 2008, we will have the same number of troops in Iraq as we had in November of 2006 when the American people called for a new direction in Iraq. Again, we cannot afford the President's commitment in Iraq. It traps us. It traps us, and we cannot, while we are in that trap, address our readiness crisis. 
   This redeployment, in addition to undermining our military capacity to protect the American people, is also unsustainable financially. According to a recent report by the Joint Economic Committee, this war could end up costing American taxpayers $3 trillion. We will pay any price, as President Kennedy said, to protect the American people, but without us going into the shortcomings of this war and the President's execution of it, $3 trillion, think of the opportunity cost of that money in our readiness, in the strength of our country, in our reputation in the world. 
   The legislation before us is important. Again, the title of it is the Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act. It would begin redeployment within 30 days of enactment and have a goal of completing the redeployment by December 15, 2008. The legislation requires a transition in the mission of U.S. forces from being in combat to diplomatic and force protection, to targeted counterterrorism and limited support for the Iraqi security forces. It would prohibit the deployment of U.S. troops to Iraq who are not fully trained and fully equipped. Thank you, Mr. Murtha, for your leadership on that subject and on this one as well and so many others. It requires that all U.S. Government agencies and personnel abide by the Army Field Manual's prohibition against torture. 
   The legislation that Mr. Obey has brought to the floor, and I salute your leadership over and over again on this subject and so many others, Mr. Chairman, the House must choose between the President's plan for a 10-year war without end, no end in sight, the longer we're there, the harder it is to come out, the longer we're there, the more severely it hurts our military readiness; or a Democratic plan for responsible, honorable, safe redeployment out of Iraq and soon. 
   Our troops have already paid too high a price for this war: 3,850 U.S. troops killed, 28,000 injured, thousands of them permanently. That is, of course, the biggest price to pay. But the price that we are paying in our reputation in the world for us not to be able to take our rightful place as a leader in the world to make the world safer, to make the region, the Middle East, more stable, and so many other challenges that the world faces, whether it's the eradication of disease, the alleviation of poverty, the curbing of global warming, keeping peace, ending the fury of despair that contributes to the violence in the world. The countries of the world are crying out for American leadership, and at the same time they disrespect us for what is happening in Iraq. 
   We must act now to provide a new direction because it is clear that the President has turned a blind eye to all of this. And in addition to what I said earlier, our troops paying the biggest price, our reputation in the world, the several-trillion-dollar price tag to the taxpayer, and the cost to our readiness, despite the fact that the President has turned a blind eye to the facts of Iraq and a tin ear to the wishes of the American people to take a new direction in Iraq and bring our troops home, we must act today. I hope that our colleagues will all support this legislation because in doing so and if it is enacted into law and if this policy is pursued, we can resume our rightful place in the world. We can refocus our attention, as Mr. Obey said earlier, on the real war on terrorism, and we can make the American people safer by rebuilding and restoring the readiness and the capacity of our military to protect the American people wherever our interests are threatened. 
   All of us stand here and take an oath of office by pledging to protect and defend the Constitution. In that preamble, to provide for the common defense is one of our first responsibilities. Unless we do that, protect the American people, nothing else is possible. 
   So let us support this legislation which helps us honor our oath of office to defend the American people and to respect the sacrifice, the courage, the patriotism of our troops to make us the home of the brave and the land of the free. 
   I urge a ``yes'' vote on this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (ELECTION OF SPEAKER -- (House of Representatives - January 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Thank you, Leader Boehner. Thank you, my colleagues. Mr. Speaker. Mr. Speakers. 
   I accept this gavel in the spirit of partnership, not partisanship, and I look forward to working with you, Mr. Boehner, and the Republicans in the Congress for the good of the American people. 
   After giving this gavel away in the last two Congresses, I am glad someone else has the honor today. 
   In this House, we may be different parties, but we serve one country, and our pride and our prayers are united behind our men and women in uniform. They are working together to protect the American people; and in this Congress, we must work together to build a future worthy of their sacrifice. 
   In this hour, we need and pray for the character, courage, and civility of a former Member of this House, President Ford. He healed the country when it needed healing. This is another time, another war, and another trial of American will, imagination, and spirit. Let us honor his memory not just in eulogy, but in dialogue and trust across the aisle. 
   I want to join Leader Boehner in expressing our condolences and our appreciation to Mrs. Ford and to the entire Ford family for their decades of leadership and service to our country. 
   With today's convening of the 110th Congress, we begin anew. I congratulate all Members of Congress on your election. I especially want to congratulate our new Members of Congress. Let's hear it for our new Members. 
   The genius of our Founders was that every 2 years, new Members would bring to this House their spirit of renewal and hope for the American people. This Congress is reinvigorated, new Members, by your optimism and your idealism and your commitment to our country. Let us acknowledge your families whose support have made your leadership possible today. 
   Each of us brings to this Congress our shared values, our commitment to the Constitution, and our personal experience. My path to Congress and to the speakership began in Baltimore where my father was the mayor. I was raised in a large family that was devoutly Catholic, deeply patriotic, very proud of our Italian-American heritage, and staunchly Democratic. My parents taught us that public service was a noble calling, and that we had a responsibility to help those in need.     
   My parents worked on the side of the angels, and now they are with them. 
   But I am so happy that my brother, Tommy D'Alesandro, who was also a mayor of Baltimore, is here leading the D'Alesandro family from Baltimore today. He is sitting right up there with Tony Bennett. 
   Forty-three years ago, Paul Pelosi and I were married. We raised our five children in San Francisco where Paul was born and raised. I want to thank Paul and our five children, Nancy Corrine, Christine, Jacqueline, Paul, Jr., and Alexandra, and our magnificent grandchildren, for their love, for their support, and the confidence they gave me to go from the kitchen to the Congress. 
   And I thank my constituents in San Francisco and to the State of California for the privilege of representing them in Congress. St. Francis of Assisi is our city's patron saint, and his prayer of St. Francis is our city's anthem: Lord, make me a channel of thy peace; where there is darkness may we bring light, where there is hatred may we bring love, and where there is despair, may we bring hope. 
   Hope, that is what America is about. And it is in that spirit that I serve in the Congress of the United States. 
   And today, I thank my colleagues. By electing me Speaker, you have brought us closer to the ideal of equality that is America's heritage and America's hope. 
   This is a historic moment, and I thank the leader for acknowledging it. Thank you, Mr. Boehner. It is a historic moment for the Congress, and it is a historic moment for the women of America. 
   It is a moment for which we have waited for over 200 years. Never losing faith, we waited through the many years of struggle to achieve our rights. But women were not just waiting;  women were working. Never losing faith, we worked to redeem the promise of America that all men and women are created equal. For our daughters and our granddaughters, today we have broken the marble ceiling. For our daughters and our granddaughters, the sky is the limit. Anything is possible for them. 
   The election of 2006 was a call to change, not merely to change the control of Congress, but for a new direction for our country. Nowhere were the American people more clear about the need for a new direction than in the war in Iraq. 
   The American people rejected an open-ended obligation to a war without end. Shortly, President Bush will address the Nation on the subject of Iraq. It is the responsibility of the President to articulate a new plan for Iraq that makes it clear to the Iraqis that they must defend their own streets and their own security, a plan that promotes stability in the region and a plan that allows us to responsibly redeploy our troops. 
   Let us work together to be the Congress that rebuilds our military to meet the national security challenges of the 21st century. 
   Let us be the Congress that strongly honors our responsibility to protect the American people from terrorism. 
   Let us be the Congress that never forgets our commitment to our veterans and our first responders, always honoring them as the heroes that they are. 
   The American people also spoke clearly for a new direction here at home. They desire a new vision, a new America built on the values that have made our country great. 
   Our Founders envisioned a new America driven by optimism, opportunity, and courage. So confident were they in the America that they were advancing that they put on the seal, the great seal of the United States: ``Novus ordo seclorum,'' a new order for the centuries. Centuries; they spoke of the centuries. They envisioned America as a just and good place, as a fair and efficient society, as a source of hope and opportunity for all. 
   This vision has sustained us for over 200 years, and it accounts for what is best in our great Nation: liberty, opportunity, and justice. 
   Now it is our responsibility to carry forth that vision of a new America into the 21st century. A new America that seizes the future and forges 21st-century solutions through discovery, creativity, and innovation, sustaining our economic leadership and ensuring our national security. A new America with a vibrant and strengthened middle class for whom college is affordable, health care is accessible, and retirement reliable. A new America that declares our energy independence, promotes domestic sources of renewable energy, and combats climate change. A new America that is strong, secure, and a respected leader among the community of nations. 
   And the American people told us they expected us to work together for fiscal responsibility, with the highest ethical standards and with civility and bipartisanship. 
   After years of historic deficits, this 110th Congress will commit itself to a higher standard: pay-as-you-go, no new deficit spending. Our new America will provide unlimited opportunity for future generations, not burden them with mountains of debt. 
   In order to achieve our new America for the 21st century, we must return this House to the American people. So our first order of business is passing the toughest congressional ethics reform in history. This new Congress doesn't have 2 years or 200 days. Let us join together in the first 100 hours to make this Congress the most honest and open Congress in history. 100 hours. 
   This openness requires respect for every voice in the Congress. As Thomas Jefferson said, ``Every difference of opinion is not a difference of principle.'' My colleagues elected me to be Speaker of the House, the entire House. Respectful of the vision of our Founders, the expectation of our people, and the great challenges that we face, we have an obligation to reach beyond partisanship to work for all Americans. 
   Let us stand together to move our country forward, seeking common ground for the common good. We have made history; now let us make progress for the American people. 
   May God bless our work, and may God bless America.     
   Before we move forward, because there are so many children here and so many of them asked me if they could touch the gavel, I wanted to invite as many of them who wanted to come forward to come join me up here. I know my own grandchildren will. 
   Let's hear it for the children. We're here for the children. For these children, our children, and for all of America's children, the House will come to order. 
   I am now ready to take the oath of office from the Dean of the Congress of the United States, Mr. Dingell. In acknowledging him, I also want to acknowledge Speaker Foley who has been with us as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - March 22, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and his leadership in bringing this very important legislation to the floor. 
   This is a happy day indeed. It is an historic day. It is a day when the people of the District of Columbia will finally have their voices heard and represented. 
   This is a personal joy for me as well, because when I was born all those many years ago, my father served in the Congress, and he became the Chair of the District of Columbia Appropriations Subcommittee. As such, that was a time when there was no Mayor, no home rule, no anything; that committee practically ran the District of Columbia. My father was a strong advocate for home rule for the District, and, of course, we had hoped eventually, and still do, statehood. 
   It took a long time, but at last today we will get a vote once again for Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton. She has really been a champion for the District. Even without the full vote, her impact is felt here, but it is the right thing to do for her to have the vote. 
   Congressman Davis, as Chairman Davis and now as ranking member, has always been a strong advocate for this, as has Henry Waxman, the Chair of the Government Reform Committee, and you, Mr. Chairman, from the standpoint of the Judiciary Committee. 
   How impressive it was to see the Iraqi vets, these young people, coming back from the Iraq war, and those serving in Afghanistan, where they were willing to make any sacrifice for our country. Their courage and patriotism is honored by all of us. They came and pled to us for the District of Columbia to have the vote. They live here, they went to war from here, they wanted to come home to the fullness of democracy for the District of Columbia. 
   Today's vote affirms an enduring principle of our democracy, the right to be heard and represented. They fought for that in Iraq. They should have it here in the District. 
   For more than 200 years, the people of the District of Columbia have been denied full representation. This carefully crafted, bipartisan legislation corrects a serious flaw in our democracy. America is at its best honoring the cause of freedom and justice when all voices are fully represented. 
   The effort to politicize the issue of fundamental fairness disrespects the ideals of this Nation and the people of the District of Columbia. We must honor our democracy. House Democrats will not rest until full representation in the House is granted to the District of Columbia. 
   This is an important day on which I congratulate Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton and the people of the District of Columbia for having this right come due. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (HONORING THE LIFE AND ACHIEVEMENTS OF LEO T. McCARTHY AND EXPRESSING PROFOUND SORROW ON HIS DEATH -- (House of Representatives - March 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding. To both of them, thank you for bringing this resolution honoring Leo McCarthy to the floor. He was a very special person to us, and I thank you. Congresswoman Eshoo, thank you for your leadership in bringing this as well. 
   I am pleased to join my California colleagues, and others, in singing the praises of one great man, Leo McCarthy. 
   Mr. Speaker, in the Book of Ecclesiastes, there is a chapter known as the Eulogy of Heroes; its words could be used to describe Leo McCarthy. 
   ``Now let us praise great men, the heroes of our nation's history, through whom the Lord has established His renown and revealed His majesty. Some were sage counselors who led the people by their counsel and by their knowledge of the law; out of their fund of wisdom, they gave instruction. They were men of loyalty, whose good deeds have not been forgotten.'' 
   I know that all who knew Leo McCarthy knows how fitting that description is of him. Leo McCarthy was indeed such a person. And as the Eulogy of Heroes proclaims, ``He will be buried in peace, but his name lives forever, as people recount his wisdom.'' 
   Leo's great wisdom was in knowing that the future of his children, Sharon, Conna, Adam and Niall, was linked to the destiny of all children. There were many years when, as the most senior Democrat in California politics, Lieutenant Governor Leo McCarthy was the main person standing between drastic cuts to benefits for our children, the elderly and the disabled. 
   Leo took seriously the responsibility to carry the banner of the Democratic Party, as he advanced social and economic justice. As Speaker of the State Assembly House and Lieutenant Governor, Leo promoted a values-based agenda to educate our children, grow our economy and protect our environment. He did so living up to the highest ethical standards, and he always strove to act in a bipartisan way. 
   Leo's word was his bond. And when he promised that he would protect our seniors and stand up for California's magnificent coastline, he kept his word. In fact, Leo was so scrupulously principled and honest that there are those of us who thought he must be wearing a Boy Scout uniform under his business suit. What was under there was a heart of gold. And really, in all of the testimonials that followed Leo's passing, I said he had the heart of a lion; they said he was a lion. 
   Leo opened public service to so many Californians, opening up the Democratic Party and welcoming in the grassroots. As a former staffer of his said, Leo liked to take chances on talent. From him they got not only their start but also their ethics, how to look after their family, their community and their country at the same time. 
   He also encouraged the next generation of leadership through his work at the University of San Francisco as head of the Leo T. McCarthy Center for Public Service and the Common Good. Leo helped to give me my start, encouraging me not only to support candidates but to run in my own right. I consider him both a dear friend and a purposeful mentor. 
   He made my first run for Congress a family affair, with my children working alongside his children to elect me to Congress. I said, again, he had a heart of gold, he also had the heart of a lion which sustained him through his illness. With all the strength that he could muster and a clear mind, he gave me sage counsel and wise instruction, as the eulogy said, through this last campaign, always reminding me that it was necessary to win in order to keep faith with the American people. And I know he took special joy in our victories in November, indeed, they were his victories as well. 
   Leo was optimistic to the end. And as recently as Saturday night, which was the Saturday night before he passed, I spoke to him and he said, My morale is high. I am home with Jackie, that is his wife, and my children and my  grandchildren are with me. More than anything, Leo loved his family, his wife Jackie, his children and grandchildren. 
   My husband Paul and I and my entire family extend our deep sympathy to Jackie, Sharon, Conna, Adam and Niall. Again, I hope it is a comfort to them that so many people mourn their loss, sing Leo's praises and are praying for them at this sad time. 
   Mr. Speaker, Leo McCarthy will be buried in peace, but his name lives forever as people recount his wisdom. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (PROVIDING FOR ADOPTION OF H. RES. 979, RECOMMENDING THAT HARRIET MIERS AND JOSHUA BOLTEN BE FOUND IN CONTEMPT OF CONGRESS, AND ADOPTION OF H. RES. 980, AUTHORIZING COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY TO INITIATE OR INTERVENE IN JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS TO ENFORCE CERTAIN SUBPOENAS -- (House of Representatives - February 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlelady, the Chair of the Rules Committee, for yielding. 
   Today is a very sad day for us for more than one reason. One reason is, though, the matter that is before us. I had hoped, frankly, that this day would never have come, that the respectful negotiations that should take place between article I, the legislative branch, and article II, the executive branch, would have yielded the information that is necessary for Congress to make its decisions. 
   I thank Chairman Conyers for his distinguished lifetime leadership of protecting the Constitution of the United States. We all take that oath of office, every single one of us who serves. Indeed, every person who serves in any civic capacity in our country does so. Today, we are honoring our oath of office with this resolution that is before us. 
   Again, I rise in sadness, not in confrontation. This is not a conflict that the Congress has sought. In fact, as the distinguished chairman of the Judiciary Committee has indicated, the committee has repeatedly sought to avoid confrontation, repeatedly making requests that have been ignored or rejected by the White House on completely unacceptable terms. 
   The Judiciary Committee, indeed the Congress, is clearly entitled to this information. It involves neither national security information nor communications with the President. The President has no grounds to assert executive privilege. 
   On the other hand, Congress has the responsibility of oversight of the executive branch. I know that Members on both sides of the aisle take that responsibility very seriously. Oversight is an institutional obligation to ensure against abuse of power, in this case the politicizing of the Department of Justice. Subpoena authority is a vital tool for that oversight. 
   Today, we seek to require the Department of Justice to bring contempt motions against Harriet Miers and Josh Bolten. When our resolution passes, we hope the administration will realize that this House of Representatives, this Congress, is serious about our constitutional role of oversight and will reach a settlement with us over the documents and testimony at issue. I still hold out the hope that they will cooperate. 
   But if the administration fails to do so, and if it orders the Department of Justice not to file contempt proceedings, we will then, through this resolution, have the power ourselves to go to Federal court and seek civil enforcement of our subpoenas. 
   The resolution before us today should not be a partisan issue. It should not be. This isn't about Democrats or Republicans. Former Congressman Mickey Edwards, who once served in the Republican leadership, has said that the enforcement of the subpoenas in the U.S. Attorney matter is about defending Congress, not a Democratic or a Republican Congress, but the people's Congress, as a separate, independent, and completely equal branch of government. 
   The subject of the Judiciary Committee's investigation involves serious and credible allegations that Federal law enforcement was politicized. Political manipulation of law enforcement undermines public confidence in our criminal justice system. Congress must find out what happened not just in terms of those who were fired but also whether improper criteria were used to retain the remaining U.S. Attorneys.     
   We must have the information in order to protect against political manipulation of law enforcement, and it must be provided in terms consistent with our constitutional obligations. 
   The so-called White House offer refused to permit even a transcript of any interviews and to permit questions on discussions and required the committee to promise in advance not to seek further information. This is beyond arrogance; this is hubris taken to the ultimate degree. 
   As former Congressman Edwards, again I remind, a former member of the Republican leadership in the House, said, ``No Congress, indeed, no lawyer, would ever agree to such an outrageous demand.'' 
   Madam Speaker, we must continue in our efforts to restore our Nation's fundamental system of checks and balances. This Congress and future Congresses must have the ability to conduct meaningful oversight. It is the  hallmark of our constitutional democracy that has served us well for more than two centuries. 
   Thank you, again, Chairman Conyers, for your leadership, Congresswoman Linda S&#225;nchez, chairwoman of the subcommittee that dealt with this issue, Chairwoman Louise Slaughter, for the important work of the Rules Committee on all of this. To the new Members of Congress, on this issue of article I led by John Yarmuth, article I, protecting the prerogatives of the Congress of the United States, we thank our new Members for their leadership honoring their oath of office. And Brad Miller, an expert on the subject in the Congress, has been a tremendous resource to us as well. 
   Let us uphold our oath of office by voting for this resolution, my colleagues. Let us restore the rule of law. Let us act to protect and defend our constitution by ensuring appropriate congressional oversight in all areas essential to the well-being of the American people. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (NEW DIRECTION FOR ENERGY INDEPENDENCE, NATIONAL SECURITY, AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT -- (House of Representatives - August 04, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the distinguished chairman for yielding time. 
   Mr. Chairman, today we have an historic opportunity in the House of Representatives. Today we are faced with a momentous decision on energy and global warming. With this bill, we are turning toward the future for the sake of our children and our planet. With this bill, the New Direction for Energy Independence, National Security, and Consumer Protection Act, Congress can indeed take our Nation in a new direction. This is a moment when we can make a decision in favor of the future. 
   Mr. Chairman, you acknowledged all of the chairmen and chairwomen who have contributed to the success of this legislation that we are bringing forward today, and I want to commend all of them. I want to say that the principles that have been put into this legislation are very important. Our energy independence is a national security issue. It is an economic issue for our country and for America's families. It is an environmental health issue for our children. And it is a moral issue. This beautiful planet is God's gift to us. We have a moral responsibility to preserve it. That is why I am so pleased that so many in the religious community are supporting our actions today. 
   This bill makes the largest investment in homegrown biofuels in American history. We know that America's farmers will fuel America's independence. We will send our energy dollars to middle America, not to the Middle East.     
   The bill promotes cleaner and efficient means of transportation, including alternative fuels in busses and ferries and hybrid automobiles in hauling goods around the country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (ESTABLISHING AN OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL ETHICS--Continued -- (House of Representatives - March 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlelady from Ohio, Congresswoman Sutton, for yielding and for managing this very challenging bill this evening with such dignity. 
   This is an important time for us, my colleagues, because we are sending a message to the American people as to who we are. We know each other to be honorable individuals who come here with the best motivation. Our title ``Representative'' is our job description, to represent the people of our districts. We gain respect for each other as we work on issues across the aisle, across the region, across generations in every way, representing the beautiful diversity of our country. 
   Unfortunately, the American people do not share our view of ourselves here in the Congress and our reputation has received tarnish. Part of that tarnish came from a culture of corruption that preceded the Democratic takeover of this Congress. When I became Speaker of the House, I said it was necessary to drain the swamp that is Washington, D.C. so that the people will understand that we are here for the people's interest and not the special interests. 
   And so this legislation that is before us today represents what I believe is necessary for us to convey to the American people what we owe them: our best effort to have this Congress live up to the highest ethical standard. 
   And I know of what I speak because I had the responsibility to serve on the Ethics Committee for 6 years when we took up some terrible issues. The bank scandal, remember that? Many of you weren't here yet, but it was a horrible time. The Newt Gingrich case, it was a horrible time. During that time, as divided as we were, Democrat and Republican, I would pray at night that something exculpatory would come along, something that would say we don't need to continue this case because there is evidence that these charges are not true. It is hard, it is hard to pass judgment on your colleagues. It is very difficult. 
   And I say that in the most bipartisan way, and we worked together on that committee in a very bipartisan way during some very difficult times.  
   After 6 years, I thought my service was over; and I had to spend another year on what Mr. Hoyer referenced as the Livingston-Cardin Committee to rewrite the rules. We thought we did a really good job; but, obviously, a review of them some years later said we have to do more. 
   But that has been the story of ethics in the Congress. Since the Ethics Committee was first created in 1967, the House has set increasingly higher standards of conduct to guide Members because public service is a public trust. As I said, in recent years that trust has been eroded, and we have come here to drain the swamp. 
   Just last year on the first day of the Congress, the New Direction Congress, the House implemented new and sweeping changes to the gift and travel restrictions. Last September we passed the historic Honest Leadership and Open Government Act, historic lobbying and ethics reform that is now the law of the land. 
   Today, the New Direction Congress will, for the first time, open the ethics process up to the participation of our fellow citizens, which will make this institution more accountable to the people who sent us here, the American people. I welcome their assistance. 
   I want to say a word about Mr. Capuano. I want to thank him for his service to our country. In recognizing him, I want to recognize the participation of all of the members, Democrats and Republicans, on the task force, for their service to this House; and I believe there was a good-faith effort made to keep this process as bipartisan as possible. And that is the best you can do. If at the end of the day there is not a willingness to make the reforms necessary to restore the confidence of the American people in the Congress of the United States, then you cannot be held back because some do not want to act. 
   Mr. Capuano, I believe, led this effort in a way that was bipartisan and sensitive to the institution's history and traditions. And I must say that I received, early on, compliments from his co-Chair, the Republican co-Chair of the committee, about working with Mr. Capuano. He said something like, I am sorry you appointed him because he is very good to work with. That was supposed to be a joke. 
   In any event, I would like to extend special thanks to him for undertaking this very difficult task, not only in trying to make something that is important work, but also to convince our colleagues that this is the route to take. 
   Now as I said, I served on the committee under the old rules and I helped write the new rules, and there is always a time to revisit all of it. And there will be a time to revisit these rules as well. 
   A special thanks to my friend, Mr. DAVID HOBSON, for his work on the task force and for his many years of distinguished service in the Congress. We will miss his thoughtful deliberations and his contributions to our country. Thank you, DAVID HOBSON. 
   As I mentioned, I served on the Ethics Committee during some very, very difficult times; and I want to extend my deep respect and appreciation to those who serve on this committee now and who have served past and present. Until you have undergone that, until you have undergone that, you cannot really understand how difficult it is. And how happy you are when your term of office ends. But I want to salute them, all of them, past and present, for their important work. 
   I have deep respect for what Mr. Capuano, striving to work in a bipartisan way, has tried to achieve. Adopting the Capuano Task Force recommendations will provide the public and the House with the assurance that credible, credible allegations of wrongdoing will be addressed by the Ethics Committee in a timely fashion. I emphasize the word ``credible'' because I have no doubt that the main target of this, and who do you think the main target of any outside groups to this group will be? You're looking at her. You are looking at her. 
   But I am willing to take that risk because I also trust, yes, I also trust, my polite colleagues, I also trust that this group will rid itself of frivolous, baseless complaints and send a message to those who would file repeated frivolous complaints that is their price to pay to do this. I consider this a protection. 
   It will bring an additional measure of transparency to the ethics enforcement process. It creates this transparency, I think it is important to note, without compromising the House's constitutional prerogatives to discipline its Members without interfering with the work of the Ethics Committee and without altering the substantive rules governing the conduct of the committee's deliberations. 
   I fully realize that bringing non-Members to this enforcement mechanism is not only a step forward; it is a departure. It is a departure from the traditions of the House. 
   To those who have those concerns, I pledge that I will work closely with my friend, the Republican leader, Mr. Boehner, to jointly appoint the members of this new Office of Congressional Ethics, fair men and women who understand the importance of nonpartisan behavior and the compelling need to act fairly to protect the interests of the public, the House, and especially the Members.     
   Finally, Mr. Speaker, I pledge that the House leadership, and I know I heard, listened with great interest to what Mr. Hoyer had to say about this, and thank you, Mr. Hoyer, for your extraordinary leadership on making Congress more accountable and live up to a high ethical standard. Our leadership will closely monitor the work of the new Office of Congressional Ethics and continually review all reasonable proposals intended to guarantee the highest ethical conduct and a more transparent and effective ethics process. Whether they relate to the new panel or the Ethics Committee itself, if additional changes are required, we will propose them. 
   And since I mentioned Mr. Hoyer's name, I want to associate myself with one of the remarks he made. I thought it was 30 days. Mr. Hoyer said 45 days. But in a very short period of time, according to the proposal that the Republicans are putting forth, in a very short period of time if the Ethics Committee had not disposed of those charges, they would go to the Justice Department. They would go to the Justice Department. 
   Well, the Ethics Committee is about the rules of the House, about conducting ourselves in a way that brings honor to the House. Many of those issues are not matters for the Justice Department. The Justice Department knows when its jurisdiction should weigh in. 
   This is about the facts, the rules of the House, and sometimes the law of the land. It's not about hearsay, rumor, suspicion, I thought so, somebody told me. It's about the facts, the rules and the law of the land. That is all that matters. That is all that matters. 
   I think that this evening this Congress has an opportunity to send a message to the American people, and as we do, each and every one of us does as well. Our votes will speak for themselves. We are willing to take a chance to make a vote on something we might have written differently. And I don't know one bill I've ever voted for that I wouldn't have, something you might have written differently, but something that can strive to remove the doubt that is in the minds of the American people about the integrity of this body. 
   I hope that you will all join in voting for this. It is worthy of your support. I know that, with my vote, I will be able to say I did everything I could, respecting the work of those who undertook this for practically 1 year to come up with a proposal that was fair, that was effective, and that helped us drain the swamp and say to our bosses, the people who sent us here, we honor you with our service, and we pledge to you that we will always serve in a Congress that upholds the highest ethical standard. 
   This is an important vote. I urge our colleagues to vote ``aye.'' And I thank Mr. Capuano once again for his extraordinary leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (HONORING 200TH ANNIVERSARY OF GALLATIN REPORT ON ROADS AND CANALS, AND RECOGNIZING THE VAST CONTRIBUTIONS NATIONAL PLANNING EFFORTS HAVE PROVIDED -- (House of Representatives - March 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank both gentlemen for yielding and for their support of this important resolution. I thank Mr. Duncan for his leadership and for supporting this resolution. Mr. DeFazio, of course, has been a champion on these issues for a long time. And in terms of building the infrastructure of America, Mr. Blumenauer has, through his relentless advocacy for building America's infrastructure in an environmentally sound way, has added to the vision of how we want to do this. 
   I learned about the Gallatin Report, which you talked about, Mr. DeFazio, from Mr. Blumenauer. Imagine 200 years ago, around the time of the Lewis and Clark expeditions and the Louisiana Purchase, a great President  realized that for commerce to flow and for people to move and our country to flourish, we needed to build the infrastructure of our country; and Mr. DeFazio described the immensity of that project by Albert Gallatin, the Secretary of the Treasury. 
   Secretary Gallatin said at the time his vision of roads and canals to unite our young Nation could not be left to individual exertion. Contrary to popular thinking at the time, Gallatin had the great foresight to see the long-term benefits of infrastructure investments far outweighed the cost. And because of that, public capital, not just private resources, were necessary. 
   From the beginning of our country, our Founders and the leaders of our country were entrepreneurs. They were risk-takers. They believed in public-private partnerships, and that is what this was. 
   At the beginning of the 19th century, it is important I think to note, there were barely 1,000 miles of canals in America. Sixty years later, in part because of the vision of Albert Gallatin, more than 4,200 miles of canals, ranging west to Illinois, north to Michigan, and south to Texas, facilitated trade and mobility across our country. 
   The Erie Canal, the transcontinental railway, and America's model of planning and investment stand today as legacies of Albert Gallatin's vision. A statue of Albert Gallatin stands today at the entrance to the Treasury Department building in recognition of his many accomplishments. 
   It is in the tradition of Albert Gallatin that 100 years later, again my teacher and mentor on the history of this vision for America, Mr. Blumenauer, informs me that Theodore Roosevelt launched a similar commitment by convening a White House conference on conservation to preserve America's natural beauty. That led to the creation of the National Park Service and helped a growing America remain a great America and continue on to be an even greater America. 
   In 2008, 100 years later, 200 years after Thomas Jefferson and Secretary Gallatin, 100 years after Theodore Roosevelt, in keeping with the tradition of visionary leaders like them, we are prepared to invest in America's strength. We again must invest in our infrastructure to do so. 
   Today that means green solutions such as mass transit and modern solutions such as expanding broadband across America.     
   Whether we're talking about roads or bridges or mass transit, whether we're talking about canals and waterways, sewage and water facilities, whether we're talking about broadband or we're talking about the grid to transmit electricity, whether it be talking about schools, an investment in infrastructure that serves the needs of our children and their education, all of this infrastructure needs a major, major infusion of capital, and we want to do that in a fiscally sound way. 
   Just as they did 200 years ago, these infrastructure investments offer our Nation job-creating opportunities to invigorate, reinvigorate America's economies. Anything we're talking about in terms of infrastructure means good-paying jobs right here at home in America. It's not only about creating those jobs; it's about growing our economy. 
   Today, because of the leadership of Mr. Oberstar, the distinguished Chair of the committee, Mr. DeFazio, who opened the debate here, Mr. Duncan, thank you as well, and the leadership of Congressman Earl Blumenauer, Congress has the opportunity to honor the genius of the Gallatin plan, as the resolution says, establishing a more perfect Union. 
   Mr. Speaker, I rise in recognition of Secretary Albert Gallatin who, with his plan, encouraged the prosperity and the national unity of America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2008 VETO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - March 11, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairman of the Intelligence Committee for his leadership on protecting the American people. In addition to being Chair of the Intelligence Committee, he has served for many years on the Armed Services Committee. He brings to his position on Intelligence the commitment that we all have, to protecting the American people, to building a strong military second to none to do that, to protect the American people. He knows that force protection is one of the main priorities of intelligence, to protect our forces, and when they are in harm's way, to make sure they have the intelligence to prevail.  
   Mr. Speaker, the New Direction Congress has made strengthening national security and improving America's intelligence capabilities a top priority. It is our major responsibility, to protect the American people. 
   Our very first piece of legislation, H.R. 1, took the bipartisan 9/11 Commission recommendations off the shelf, as they had been in the Republican Congress, and put them into law to better protect the American people. We then began our efforts to strengthen America's military, the readiness of which has been greatly depleted by the President's failed Iraq policy. 
   To restore our military strength, we have expanded the size of the Army and Marine Corps, passed legislation insisting that only fully mission-capable forces be deployed, and funded essential equipment, including armored Humvees. 
   Mr. Speaker, America's security depends on the strength of our military as we all know, but also the quality of information gathered and analysis provided by the 16 intelligence agencies that make up our Nation's intelligence community. As someone who has served on the House Intelligence Committee now as a member and ex officio for 16 years, longer than anyone in the Congress, I understand that policymakers in Congress and in the executive branch must be able to rely on accurate, timely, and actionable intelligence. That is why this intelligence authorization bill invests in human intelligence, counterterrorism operations, and analysis. It is a critical step in protecting our Nation. And the President should have signed it into law.     
   Regrettably, President Bush vetoed these critical investments in our intelligence capabilities because this legislation extended the Army Field Manual's prohibition on torture to intelligence community personnel. 
   The prohibition on torture that the President vetoed protected our values, protected American military and diplomatic personnel, and protected Americans by ensuring accurate intelligence. Our Nation is on a stronger ground ethically and morally when our practices for holding and interrogating captives are consistent with the Geneva Conventions, when we do not torture. 
   We all have our views here about intelligence gathering, analysis and dissemination; and, again, much of the focus is on force protection. So I look to the words of those who have served in the military for their view on this subject. 
   In the words of Retired RADM Donald Guter, a former Navy Judge Advocate General, he says: ``There is no disconnect between human rights and national security. They are synergistic. One doesn't work without the other for very long.'' 
   Failing to legally prohibit the use of waterboarding and other harsh torture techniques also risks the safety of our soldiers and other Americans serving overseas. In a letter to the congressional Intelligence Committee chairmen, 30 retired generals and admirals, including General Joseph Hoar, the former head of the U.S. Central Command, the command that oversees our military activities in the Iraq region, the Middle East and greater Middle East area, those 30 retired generals and admirals, looking again to the voices of those who have led in the military, stated: ``We believe it is vital to the safety of our men and women in uniform that the United States not sanction the use of interrogation methods it would find unacceptable if inflicted by the enemy against captured Americans.'' 
   Many military officials and intelligence professionals have also stated that torture is ineffective; it is unlikely to produce the kind of timely and reliable information needed to disrupt terrorist plots. 
   I want to reinforce the message of my colleague, the majority leader, Steny Hoyer, in quoting the words of General David Petraeus. As Mr. Hoyer just stated, but I think it bears repeating, the words of General David Petraeus: ``Some may argue that we would be more effective if we sanctioned torture or other expedient methods to obtain information from the enemy. That would be wrong,'' General Petraeus said. He went on: ``Beyond the basic fact that such actions are illegal, history shows that they are frequently neither useful nor necessary.'' 
   These leading military men and women and those of us who support this legislation's ban on torture believe that we can and we must protect America while preserving our country's deeply held principles. 
   In the final analysis, our ability to lead the world will depend not only on our military might but also on our moral authority. Today, we can begin to reassert that moral authority by overriding the President's veto. 
   Thank you again, Mr. Chairman, for your leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 3043, DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - November 06, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank him for his leadership in bringing this important legislation to the floor. I commend Chairman Obey for his leadership of the Appropriations Committee, particularly on the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Subcommittee on which I had the privilege to serve for a number of years. I commend the chairman of the Veterans Quality of Life Subcommittee, Mr. Edwards, for his extraordinary leadership on behalf of America's veterans. 
   Everyone who wants to honor our promises to our veterans, everyone who salutes their service to our country owes a deep debt of gratitude to you, Mr. Edwards, for your extraordinary leadership. 
   Madam Speaker, our national budget should be a statement of our national values. The legislation that we debate here today invests in America's correct priorities. It includes the largest increase in veterans benefits in the 77-year history of the Veterans Administration, and potentially life-saving biomedical research, and it does it all in a fiscally sound way. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2272, AMERICA COMPETES ACT -- (House of Representatives - August 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
   What an exciting day for the Congress. Some of you are too young to know this, but you have read about it in the history books. Mr. Hall and I remember when President Kennedy came forward and said that he was going to inaugurate a program that would send a man to the moon and back, safely, within 10 years. 
   Now, for those of you who weren't born yet, you have read about it in history, you have to know that sending a man to the moon as an idea was such an impossibility. It would be almost like a magician cutting somebody in half and then putting them together again.     
   How could this possibly happen, that somebody would go into the sky, to the moon and come back? 
   At the time that he did that, it was a remarkable lift to the American people because it had followed upon Sputnik, as many of you know or have read in the history books and some of us remember. When he did that, President  Kennedy made the following statement. He said, ``The vows of this Nation can only be fulfilled if we are first, and therefore, we intend to be first. Our leadership in science and in industry, our hopes for peace and security, our obligations to ourselves as well as others all require us to make this effort,'' hearkening back to our Founders, those magnificent, courageous, optimistic, confident people, and President Kennedy referenced our vows to their great work. 
   This is our innovation agenda which is reflected in the legislation before us today. In answering President Kennedy's call, at that time, to put a man on the Moon, America unleashed unprecedented technological advances that built the world's most vibrant economy. The talent, intellect and entrepreneurial spirit of the American people that made this country the leader is being seriously challenged today by other countries. Americans must continue to innovate in order to create new, thriving industries that will produce millions of good jobs here at home and a better future for the next generation. 
   The distinguished chairman of the Science and Technology Committee and the distinguished ranking member, in bringing this bill to the floor today, are giving us our opportunity at our time to meet the challenge for the future. Today Congress has the opportunity to make a decision for the future. 
   Nearly 2 years ago, House Democrats created our innovation agenda in a very bipartisan way, which guarantees our national security and our economic prosperity, expands markets for American products, and asserts our leadership throughout the world in the decades to come. Already this year the New Direction Congress has led the way in promoting innovation and investments in education, science, research and development. 
   Today, with the COMPETES Act, we have bipartisan, bicameral legislation that implements much of the innovation agenda. Again, I want to recognize the extraordinary leadership of Chairman Bart Gordon and the Science and Technology Committee and the ranking member for their leadership on this conference report. Chairman Gordon has energized this committee, ensuring that our Nation will continue to be the world leader in education, innovation and economic growth. 
   The COMPETES Act focuses on four key areas, as has been referenced: education, research and development, energy independence, and small business. 
   In education, the COMPETES Act recognized that America's greatest resources for innovation are in the classrooms across this country. This legislation invests in creating the most highly qualified teachers and training the next generations of scientists, mathematicians and engineers through public-private partnerships. This bill also takes steps to ensure that future innovators reflect the diversity of our country. 
   What I love about this bill and this legislation is that it's market-oriented, public-private entrepreneurial partnerships to keep us number one. 
   We know that innovation begins in the classroom and that scientific research provides the foundation for innovation and future technologies. The COMPETES Act makes a sustained commitment to research and development by putting us on a path to doubling funding for the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Standards and Technology and the Department of Energy's Office of Science. 
   I heard Congressman Wamp with great enthusiasm talk about the ARPA--Energy. I'm excited about it as well. To help achieve energy independence, the COMPETES Act focuses on energy research and innovation by creating a new Advanced Research Projects Agency for Energy, ARPA-E. 
   Mr. Chairman, I know your enthusiasm for that issue for a long time, and congratulations on bringing it to fulfillment here. This initiative will provide talent and resources for high-risk, high-reward energy research and technology development and attract investment for the next generation of revolutionary technologies. 
   And finally, the COMPETES Act recognizes that small businesses are often the catalyst for technological innovation and the backbone of the strong economy. It puts us on a path to doubling the funding for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership and creates a new initiative, the Technology Innovation Program, to support high-risk, high-reward, pre-competitive technology for small and medium-sized companies. 
   Because this bill is a decision in favor of future jobs and future economic strength, it's earned the endorsement of the Chamber of Commerce, many university presidents, ITI, TechNet, and the National Association of Manufacturers, among others. 
   I urge all of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support it. And before I close, I want to acknowledge the great leadership of Congresswoman Anna Eshoo, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren and Congressman George Miller, who is the Chair of our Policy Committee, for the work they did bringing people together, Democrats and Republicans, entrepreneurs, high tech, biotech, academics, people in the work force, students, venture capitalists, entrepreneurs, all to come to bear, all over the country. Meetings were held all over the country to put together the innovation agenda which is reflected in this legislation. Mr. Baird had an event in Washington State. As I look around, I could name so many Members who had events in their States. In doing so today, in passing this bill, we will assert our global economic leadership, create new business ventures and jobs, and give future generations the opportunity to achieve the American Dream. 
   I began my remarks, Mr. Speaker, by quoting President Kennedy, who was an inspiration to so many of us of a certain generation who are active in public service today. 
   He hearkened back to our Founders and our vows to our Nation, and I want to hearken back to that place too, because our Founders were among the earliest American entrepreneurs. They were magnificent disrupters. They thought new and fresh and different ways. They came together. Imagine the confidence. They came together, declared their independence from the greatest naval power in existence at the time, did so in a declaration that asserted the equality of all people, and then went forward to win the Revolutionary War, write a Constitution that made us the freest people in the world. Thank heavens they made it amendable so that we could even become freer. And when they did so, they designed the Great Seal of the United States. And on it, it's in your pocket. You're carrying it around if you don't know it. It's on the dollar bill. And on that great seal it says, ``Novus Ordo Seclorum.'' 
   These people, with all that revolutionary spirit, with all that disruption of the status quo, had so much confidence in what they were doing, so much faith in themselves, faith in this country to be and faith in God that they said that what they were establishing was for the centuries, for the ages, ``seclorum.'' Those of you who know Latin know that that means ``forever.'' And it was that optimism, that confidence that built America. And it is in that spirit of disruption, of change, of doing something different, of having a big goal of aspiring to greatness, that we, as President Kennedy said, do honor the vows of our Nation. And this legislation is very much in their pioneer and entrepreneurial spirit. 
   I thank you again, Chairman Gordon, for your tremendous leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (HONORING PARREN MITCHELL -- (House of Representatives - June 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to praise a great man, a former Member of Congress, a former colleague of many who are still here, Parren Mitchell of Maryland. 
   Today, with the Maryland delegation, our distinguished majority leader, along with Elijah Cummings, gave the eulogy today with both Senators present, the Governor of the State, the mayor of the city, all of the clergy, not all but a representation of it, and family and friends of this great man, Parren Mitchell. 
   Many Members of Congress who still serve here served with Parren, and they know he was a champion for economic and social justice. 
   Mr. Speaker, I want the rest of our colleagues to know about the Mitchell family. They were in the forefront of the civil rights movement; and, as a native Baltimorean, I knew full well the quality of their leadership and the extent of their effectiveness. 
   Parren Mitchell was a part of that leadership. He came to the Congress in 1971. He was the first African American from Maryland to serve in the Congress and the first African American since 1898 to come to the Congress from south of the Mason-Dixon line. So he made history when he came here, and he was a fighter who made progress while he was here. He was a pioneer and patriot. He fought for our country on the battlefields of Europe. He received the Purple Heart. He fought in the civil rights movement, and then fought here on the floor of the Congress until he decided to leave Congress. 
   It was wonderful to hear his nephew speak about him, and other representatives of the family speak about him, as an uncle and a friend and a mentor. 
   It was wonderful to hear the clergy speak of him as a child of the church, a truly religious person who brought his religion and his faith into public service. 
   It was wonderful to hear the elected officials sing his praises as ones who had learned from him, Senator Mikulski, Senator Cardin. They had learned from him and worked with him. Again, he was a champion for many issues. 
   He was a founder of the Congressional Black Caucus, and I am so happy that he lived to see five members of the Congressional Black Caucus become chairs of the full committee in the House. We have Chairman Rangel, who will be making our economy fairer and all of the economic justice that Mr. Mitchell talked about; and Chairman Conyers, who did speak today about bringing the civil rights movement into our Congress, into our legislation, protecting and defending our Constitution and our civil liberties. 
   So it was a happy occasion, although he will be greatly missed. It was a celebration of his life that was enjoyed for many hours today in St. James Episcopal Church in Baltimore, Maryland. 
   Congressman Sarbanes was there, along with his full family, his mother and father, former Senator Paul Sarbanes, his brother, Michael, and of course a Member of Congress we are very proud of, John Sarbanes. 
   And Al Wynn was there. We almost had all of the Maryland delegation, the Democrats, that is. And the delegation is almost all Democratic, but that is for another discussion on another day. Al Wynn was there representing the area nearest Washington, DC, but close to the service of Parren Mitchell. 
   When I spoke at the service I said we would be gathering here tonight to talk about Parren Mitchell and his wonderful contribution to our country and that they should tune in. But I wanted to tell you tonight what we saw today, which was a community who truly respected this great man and truly loved him and who will miss him sorely.  
   With the passing of Parren Mitchell, our Nation has lost one of its most passionate champions of justice and equality. I offer my deepest condolences on behalf of all of my colleagues in the House to Congressman Mitchell's family, friends, and all who loved him. 
   Growing up in Baltimore, I learned to revere the Mitchell family for their dedication to economic and social justice. Parren, his brother Clarence, and indeed his entire family, devoted their lives to ending racism and ensuring that our Nation's bounty was shared by all of its citizens. For that, we have all benefited. That is because their advocacy brought us closer to the ideal of equality that is both America's heritage and our hope. 
   The story of Parren Mitchell's life tracks the progress we've made. But it also shows how much farther we must travel to truly achieve justice for all. 
   At age 11, Parren Mitchell understood the reality of racism at its most violent and brutal. His older brother, Clarence, a true champion of social justice in his own right, came home one day and told of having just seen the body of a man who had been murdered--lynched--in Somerset County. In that moment, Congressman Mitchell would later say, he decided to dedicate his entire life to fighting for the rights of African Americans. 
   Years later, in 1950, after graduating from Morgan State, the University of Maryland refused to admit Congressman Mitchell to its College Park campus, telling him that it was ``inadvisable'' for blacks to attend. But that injustice would not prevent Parren Mitchell from pursuing his dream. He fought back. He won his court case. And Parren Mitchell became the first African-American graduate student at the College Park campus, and earned his master's degree in sociology. Because Parren Mitchell refused to see his dream of attending graduate school denied, many more were able to pursue their own dream of a graduate education. 
   Then, in 1971, when first sworn in as a Member of the House, Congressman Mitchell became the first African-American Member of Congress elected from the State of Maryland. This achievement must have been tempered by the knowledge that he was the very first African-American elected to Congress from below the Mason-Dixon line since 1898. It took almost a century for a Black American from the South to find a seat here in the People's House. 
   Across the 85 years of Parren Mitchell's life--in his own story and the story of America--we see the slow march of progress. We celebrate today a man who made sure that, however slow at times, we continue to march in the right direction--toward peace, understanding, and justice for all. 
   Congressman CUMMINGS recently described Mr. Mitchell as ``never concerning himself about fame or fortune but, rather, devoting himself entirely to uplifting the people he represented.'' That was apparent through his leadership as the first African American to chair the House Small Business Committee. There, he put into law guarantees that minority-owned business would share in public works and transportation contracts. 
   It is also a great testament to the leadership of Parren Mitchell that the organization he helped found--the Congressional Black Caucus--continues to serve as the conscience of the Congress and increase its ranks to the benefit of all Americans. I am sure Mr. Mitchell is looking down upon us today and that he is pleased that so many CBC members are here to honor him today. 
   With Congressman Mitchell's passing, we have lost a friend, a former colleague, and a passionate advocate for seeing that America's promise of freedom and equality are realized by all of our citizens. Whether in the Army, where he earned a Purple Heart, teaching at his alma mater, Morgan State, or serving his community as a social worker or a member of this body, Parren Mitchell dedicated his life to service. His loss leaves a void that we must work together to fill. 
   I hope it is a comfort to Congressman Mitchell's family and friends that so many people mourn their loss and are praying for them at this sad time.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (OFFERING HEARTFELT CONDOLENCES TO THE VICTIMS AND THEIR FAMILIES REGARDING THE HORRIFIC VIOLENCE AT VIRGINIA TECH AND TO STUDENTS, FACULTY, ADMINISTRATION AND STAFF AND THEIR FAMILIES WHO HAVE BEEN AFFECTED -- (House of Representatives - April 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, it is with deep sadness that Congress today recognizes the tragedy that indeed struck our country when it befell the community of Virginia Tech on Monday. We offer our condolences to the many who now grieve. I want to particularly extend my condolences to our colleagues here for the sorrow that has taken place in their State. 
   But the sorrow of parents who lost their children, students who lost their friends, and a community which lost 33 of its own is beyond any comfort we can give in words. Words are totally inadequate. In the days that follow, the mourning and questioning that has already begun will continue. And as it does, the thoughts and prayers of this Congress and, indeed, this Nation, will remain with the students of Virginia Tech and their families. 
   Among the victims there was a student resident adviser known affectionately as ``Stack,'' a young woman whose love for horses led her to study veterinary science; one of the world's great researchers on cerebral palsy; and a Holocaust survivor who became an expert on aeronautics. 
   These victims, of different backgrounds and different ages, are united  in their love of one of America's great learning institutions, Virginia Tech. And today and in the days to come, as we grieve their loss, we are all Hokies. 
   When Robert Kennedy announced to the people of Indianapolis the news of the assassination of Rev. Martin Luther King, he offered comfort with the words of an ancient Greek playwright, Aeschylus, when he said, ``Today, when no words can describe our sadness, or heal our grief, these words again give our Nation hope. In our sleep, pain which cannot forget falls drop by drop upon the heart until, in our own despair, against our will, comes wisdom through the awful grace of God.'' 
   Today, on behalf of the students, faculty, staff and families of Virginia Tech, we pray for that wisdom. 
   I hope that it is a comfort to all who are grieving today that so many people in our country, indeed, in the world, mourn their loss and are praying for them at this sad time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - March 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank Mr. Conyers, the Chair of the Judiciary Committee, for yielding and thank Mr. Reyes, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, for bringing this legislation to the floor. They know, as does each and every one of us, that our primary responsibility is to protect the American people. 
   Mr. Speaker, we take an oath of office, as has been referenced, to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States from all enemies foreign and domestic. 
   In the preamble it states that one of our primary responsibilities is to provide for the common defense. We take those responsibilities seriously, and I don't take seriously any statements by some in this body that any person here is abdicating that responsibility. 
   All of us understand also the role that intelligence plays. In protecting our troops, force protection, that used to be our primary responsibility and now, of course, Homeland Security is part of that. 
   None of us would send our troops into harm's way without the intelligence to perform their mission and keep them safe, although some have been willing to send our men and women in uniform into harm's way without the equipment they need to keep them safe, but we don't make any accusations against them that they are not patriotic Americans who don't want to protect the American people. 
   Chairman Conyers and Chairman Reyes have already pointed out in some detail this legislation will meet our responsibility to protect America while also protecting our precious civil liberties. The President has said that our legislation will not make America safe. The President is wrong, and I think he knows it. He knows that our legislation contains within it the principles that were suggested by the Director of National Intelligence, Mr. McConnell, early on, as to what is needed to protect our people in terms of intelligence.     
   The administration demands that Congress grant immunity to companies for activities about which the President wants only a small number of Members of Congress, and no member of the judicial branch, deciding on any currently filed lawsuits to know anything about. 
   The bill before us acknowledges that immunity for the companies may already exist under current law and allows that determination to be decided by a judge with due protection for classified information, not by hundreds of people who really do not have the facts. 
   Why should the administration oppose a judicial determination of whether the companies already have immunity. Well, there are at least three explanations. First, the President knows that it's the administration's incompetence in failing to follow the procedures in statute is what has prevented immunity from being conveyed. That is one possibility. They simply didn't do it right. 
   Second, the administration's legal argument that the surveillance requests were lawfully authorized was wrong, or public reports that the surveillance activities undertaken by the companies went far beyond anything about which any Member of Congress was notified, as is required by the law.  
   None of these alternatives is attractive, but they clearly demonstrate why the administration's insistence that Congress provide retroactive immunity has never been about national security or about concerns for the companies. It has always been about protecting the administration. 
   As important as the issue of immunity might be, it is chiefly important to the administration and the telecommunications companies as they look back to events that occurred as many as 6 years ago. What is truly important to the security of our country and the protections of our Constitution going forward are the amendments made to the FISA bill in title I in this bill that is on the floor today, the so-called surveillance title of the bill. 
   The bill contains three of the essential provisions of the bill passed by the House in November and, in doing so, explicitly rejects the heart of the President's warrantless surveillance program. Those provisions are: 
   One, the reinstatement that FISA remains the exclusive means to authorize electronic surveillance. The President likes to think he has inherent authority to surveil, to collect on anybody, and this bill restates that FISA is the exclusive authority. This was a point conceded to in 1978 when the Congress of the United States established the FISA law, passed the FISA law, which was signed by the President of the United States, thereby his recognition of Congress's ability to make the courts, the third branch of government, the exclusive authority for the collection of intelligence in the United States. That is exclusivity. 
   Second, except in emergencies, FISA Court approval must take place before surveillance begins, but there are exceptions in case of emergency. 
   Third, a refusal to follow the Senate in excluding, and this is very important because people are talking about the Senate bill as though it is some great thing. This is very important: A refusal to follow the Senate in excluding from the definition of electronic surveillance activities historically considered within the definition. In other words, if they don't want the law to apply to a particular activity, they will just say it doesn't fall into this bill. 
   If the administration's change in the definition was accepted, FISA-derived information, including U.S. person information, could be data-mined with fewer protections than are currently in place under FISA. This is very important to each and every person in America. 
   The President insists that we pass the Senate bill as is. Yet even that legislation's chief author, Chairman Rockefeller, agrees that many of the House provisions improve the Senate bill. 
   This legislation before us today will ensure that our intelligence professionals have the tools they need to protect the American people. And the President knows it. 
   This legislation will ensure that we protect what it means to be an American, our precious civil rights and civil liberties. Both goals are essential and both are achieved in this bill. I urge its passage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CHILDREN'S HEALTH AND MEDICARE PROTECTION ACT OF 2007--Continued -- (House of Representatives - August 01, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, as I rise here today, something after 6:30 p.m., I was reminded as I listened to the presentations of a poem that most of us memorized when we were young by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow: 
 Between the dark and the daylight, When the night is beginning to lower, Comes a pause in the day's occupations, That is known as the Children's Hour.  
   That's this time of day. This is the children's hour. Because of the leadership of so many of our colleagues, we are able to meet our moral obligation to our children. It isn't a pause in our occupation. It is our mission, this moral obligation that we have to the future. 
   When I was sworn in as Speaker, I was surrounded by children. It was very exhilarating, and I called the House of Representatives to order on behalf of all of America's children, establishing this Chamber as the champion for our children and for the future. 
   Our legislation is called CHAMP because it does just that. It champions quality health care for America's children and for our seniors, strengthening families. It is just one way in which this new direction Congress is putting health care and particularly the needs of our children at the top of the Nation's agenda.  
   With the passage of this legislation, the new-direction Congress will ensure that 11 million of America's children receive health care coverage, and seniors will receive improved benefits under Medicare. 
   I want to join those of my colleagues who have expressed their appreciation for the exceptional leadership of our chairmen of the full committees and the subcommittees and the ranking members of the full committees and the subcommittees for the honest debate that we are having about this legislation today.     
   I think it's important to note, because it's history, that our distinguished chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Mr. Dingell, when he was a new Member of Congress gaveled down the Medicare bill. That's his family tradition, looking out for health care for all Americans. His father was a leader on that subject in this Congress, and imagine that he as a young Member, well still a young Member, but a younger Member of Congress, gaveled down Medicare. And today, he is in the lead on this legislation that will strengthen Medicare for America's seniors. 
   And at the same time, thank you, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Rangel. Between the two of them, Mr. Rangel and Mr. Dingell, they had 22 hearings on the subject of SCHIP. So this Congress has had a thorough review of this subject, and this excellent legislation is the product of that. 
   I was inspired by your speech, Mr. Rangel. You persuaded me, not persuaded me to vote for the bill. I always intended to do that, but persuaded me that it was possible that we might have a strong bipartisan support for this bill because it is so much the right thing to do. 
   I thank Congressman Stark and Congressman Pallone, Chairs of the appropriate subcommittees of their committees, for their leadership, their intense knowledge of this subject, the judgment they were able to bring on decisions that we had to make about what would be in this bill. Thank you, Mr. Stark and Mr. Pallone, and thank you again, Mr. Rangel. 
   And I thank again Mr. McCrery for his, again, comity and the dignity and the knowledge that he brings to this debate. Thank you, Mr. McCrery. 
   And to all of the staff on both sides of the aisle, thank you for your hard work on this. Their efforts will help millions of American children and seniors live better lives. 
   SCHIP, created by a Republican Congress and a Democratic President, signed into law by President Clinton, SCHIP has dramatically reduced the number of poor, uninsured children in America. The legislation before us today will improve SCHIP and the lives of millions of working families in America by improving coverage for all 6 million children currently insured under SCHIP and by extending that coverage to 5 million additional children. Those children will receive dental care and, thanks to Congressman Patrick Kennedy, mental health services. 
   Dental care, we so take it for granted for our own children, but after this legislation is passed, no more will we have the Demonte Driver where we have to have a situation like that where a child will die because he had an abscessed tooth that turned into a brain infection. We're all familiar with the details of that sad story. Today, we are doing something about it. 
   Let us be clear, most SCHIP beneficiaries receive their coverage through private managed care plans, not through the government. 
   And let us be clear, as the chairman just pointed out, this legislation is paid for; no new deficit spending, no heaping mountain of debt on these children to pay for the health care they so rightly deserve. 
   In addition to providing coverage to children, the CHAMP Act also, as we know, strengthens and improves Medicare for every senior by eliminating coinsurance requirements and deductibles for preventive care. Imagine that, for preventive care, how important that is. The legislation reduces copayments and provides for mental health parity, and many more seniors will no longer face the doughnut hole. Remember our old friend, the doughnut hole. Well, many more seniors will no longer face the doughnut hole in the prescription drug benefit. We do all of this and more for seniors and, I repeat, with pay-as-you-go budget rules and extend the life of the Medicare trust fund by 3 years. 
   By passing the CHAMP Act, the New Direction Congress is keeping our promise to seniors on Medicare and meeting our obligation to our future, our children. Again, and it is paid for. I can't say that enough. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT HATE CRIMES PREVENTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the distinguished chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Mr. Conyers, for yielding time, but more importantly, for bringing this important legislation to the floor in his ongoing, long commitment to justice in our country. And I want to commend Congresswoman TAMMY BALDWIN and Chairman BARNEY FRANK for their leadership. It is an honor to call you colleague. Thank you for giving us the opportunity today to make America more American. 
   Every day we come to this floor, we honor the tradition of our Founders, that every person is created equal, and that we are all God's children. Every day that we come to this floor, we pledge allegiance to the flag, and at the end of that pledge we say ``with liberty and justice for all.'' That is what today is about. Because in the preamble to the Constitution, which we take an oath to, we talk about forming a more perfect union. Our Founders knew that our Constitution had to be amended. They knew that we had to move to a more perfect union in terms of legislation to reflect the values of our country. And so we are here today to extend to the hate crimes legislation others who have had hate crimes committed against them. The record is clear. 
   What I am so interested in is the fact that so many law enforcement organizations have endorsed this legislation. My colleagues have spoken very eloquently as to why this is about the values of our country. They have spoken very clearly about the need for this legislation. And if it has been said, I think it bears repeating that the law enforcement organizations, many of them, including the International Association of Chiefs of Police, the National District Attorneys Association, the National Sheriffs Association, the Police Executive Research Forum, as well as nearly 30 attorney generals across the country, support need for Federal hate crime legislation. They are joined by more than 230 civil rights, education, religious and civic organizations who have voiced their support. Let us be clear that this Congress, this House of Representatives, have heard their call. 
   Hate crimes, as have been said, have no place in America, no place where we pledge every morning ``with liberty and justice for all.'' We must act to end hate crimes and save lives. 
   Mr. Speaker, the legislation will help prevent bias-motivated violence based on religion, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, national origin or disability, while respecting the first amendment rights of free speech and religious expression. It increases the ability of State, local and Federal law enforcement agencies to solve a wide range of violent hate crimes.  
   We in our country take pride in saying that we are moving to end discrimination of all kinds. Today, we have an opportunity to end discrimination and the violence that goes with it that equal a hate crime. So whatever you may think of any one of us, based on our ethnicity or our gender or whatever, you have no right to act upon that opinion in a violent way. Who would disagree with that? That is why I hope that we can send a clear message from the Congress that this Congress does not agree with that and pass this legislation. 
   Who of us can think of the story of the Shepard family and the Byrd family and so many examples that we have of this and not say that is wrong. And at the very least, we can pass legislation that tells Federal authorities that they can assist State and local authorities in enforcing the law. Over 100,000 hate crimes reported since 1991. There are so many more that go unreported, many of them unprosecuted. 
   So today, let us take this step forward that is consistent with the values of our Founders, both in terms of all being equal, and our faith that we are all God's children, but also consistent with the call and the preamble to form a more perfect union. 
   Again, passing this legislation makes America more American. I urge a ``yes'' vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-31) -- (House of Representatives - May 02, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I want to acknowledge the exceptional leadership of Chairman Obey, Chairman Murtha and Chairman Skelton in putting together this important piece of legislation. 
   Mr. Speaker, Congress passed this bill, and yesterday we sent it to the President of the United States. We did so with great pride, because it is a bill that supports our troops, honors our promises to our veterans, holds the Iraqi government accountable and winds down this war. It is a bill that honors the sacrifice of our men and women in uniform. Thank you, Chairmen OBEY, MURTHA AND SKELTON. 
   The President had an historic opportunity. He had an opportunity to take yes for an answer, because the bill contained what the President had proposed. The President proposed benchmarks. His very own benchmarks were contained in this bill. The Department of Defense has guidelines for readiness for our troops, for their training, their equipment and the time they can spend at home and overseas. They are in the bill, even with a waiver for the President, giving the President more latitude. The President said no. The President said no.  
   I had hoped that the President would see the light, instead of turning a tin ear to the wishes of the American people and a blind eye to what is happening on the ground in Iraq. 
   The President, in signing the veto, is reporting that progress is being made in Iraq. Well, I don't know what his definition of ``progress'' is, but, sadly, April was the deadliest month this year, with over 100 of our troops killed there. 
   The President, in his statement on vetoing the bill, said that he vetoes the bill because, in his words, ``It makes no sense to tell the enemy when you start to plan withdrawing.'' 
   In criticizing these timelines, of course, the President is wrong. But when he was a candidate for President, it made sense to him to say to President Clinton, ``I think it's also important for the President to lay out a timetable as to how long our troops will be involved and when they will be withdrawn.'' This is candidate Bush on the war in Kosovo, where we did not lose one single American soldier; this from a President whose initiative has lost over 3,000 Americans and countless, countless, countless Iraqis. 
   Bipartisan congressional majorities approved of using timelines for redeployment to instill urgency into benchmarks that have already again been endorsed by the President and the Iraqi leaders. They have agreed to this, except they reject them in this bill. 
   A wide range of people have noted the value of timelines in persuading the Iraqis to make the political compromises needed to end the violence, including Secretary of Defense Gates, who said, ``The strong feelings expressed in the Congress about the timetable probably have had a positive impact in terms of communicating to the Iraqis that this is not an open-ended commitment.'' 
   The Congress will not support an open-ended commitment to a war without end. He wants a blank check. The Congress will not give it to him. 
   Next the President said that Congress is substituting our judgment for the judgments of commanders in the field 6,000 miles away. Wrong again, Mr. President. We are substituting our judgment for your judgment 16 blocks down Pennsylvania Avenue in the White House. We are substituting the judgment of this Congress for your failed judgment. 
   The American people have lost faith in the President's conduct of the war. They have said that they want accountability and a new direction. This bill gives them both. 
   Next the President claimed, and Mr. Obey again referenced this, that this bill is loaded with non-emergency spending. Well, it may be a non-emergency to the President, but it certainly is an emergency to the people affected. Once again, the President is wrong. 
   The needs of the survivors of Hurricane Katrina think it is an emergency, and so does any person of conscience in our country who cares about the victims of Katrina. That millions of children are about to lose their health insurance is an emergency for them and for our country. America's farmers, devastated by natural disasters, think it is an emergency. 
   These situations remain emergencies because the President and the last Congress, the Republican Congress, refused to act. So now we must. So they have made it even more of an emergency. 
   Today, the President faces consequences of his own making. This is the seventh supplemental for the war in Iraq. Certainly somebody was planning something at the White House and could have put over the years the funding necessary for this war into the budget. Instead, the President did not do that. I don't know why. Maybe they didn't want the American people to see the real cost of this war in dollars. Certainly we know the price that we have paid more seriously in lives, in health, in reputation, in the readiness of our military and in probably $2 trillion now for this war. 
   The President claims that this legislation infringes upon the powers vested in the President by the Constitution. The President is wrong. Congress is exercising its right as a coequal branch of government to work cooperatively with the President to end this war. 
   By voting ``yes'' to override, Congress sends a strong message: 
   To support our troops. They have done everything that has been asked of them, and excellently. They deserve better. 
   To rebuild our military, which has been seriously strained by this war in Iraq. 
   To honor our commitment to our veterans, our heroes. 
   And to demand accountability. 
   With passage of this bill, we then can refocus our energy on the efforts against terrorism by bringing the war in Iraq to an end, bringing this war in Iraq to an end. 
   The President said there are real enemies out there. Yes, we know that, Mr. President, and we are prepared to make that fight. We will do whatever is necessary to protect the American people. 
   The war on terrorism was in Afghanistan. We took our fullest attention from Afghanistan to go into Iraq, and now Iraq is a magnet for terrorists. The war in Iraq has made matters worse in the war on terrorism. 
   What we have to do is work together, Democrats and Republicans, with the President of the United States, to bring stability to that region. 
   Now into the fifth year of a failed policy, this administration should get a clue. It is not working. This is the fourth surge they have proposed. When they proposed it in January, they said in 60 to 90 days we will know. It is 120 days, and now they are saying September. And then they say maybe by the end of the year. So what is this? We will be into another whole year of this war, far longer than World War II. 
   Nobody who serves in this body, who takes the oath of office to protect and defend the Constitution, needs anybody to tell them, whether you are a Democrat or Republican, what our responsibility is to protect the American people. Nobody needs a reminder of what the threat of terrorism is to our country. But we do need to work together to keep our focus on where the war on terror really is. If we clear up this matter, bring this war to an end in Iraq, we can give the war on terror our fullest attention. 
   Let us stop this war without end. I urge a ``yes'' vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EXPRESSING SORROW OF THE HOUSE AT THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE CHARLIE NORWOOD, MEMBER OF CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF GEORGIA -- (House of Representatives - February 14, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and having this Special Order to honor the life and service of our colleague Congressman Norwood. 
   It is with great sadness that we received the news first of his illness and then of his passing. We had hoped to have an occasion such as this before he died so he could hear the praise of his colleagues on the floor. I know that many conveyed their good wishes to him personally. 
   He left us in a very dignified way. He decided that he would be, as he lived, surrounded by his family at home so that he could die in peace. 
   Congressman Norwood, as we all know, as our minority leader mentioned, he had his own particular style, plain spoken, very eloquent, and he was a passionate public servant. He served our country and his own community in Vietnam in service to our country and in the Congress of the United States. 
   Again, in this Congress he did his best to serve his constituents, his conscience, and his country. 
   Again, he faced the end of his life and his sickness with great bravery and dignity. 
   Our thoughts and prayers, I have conveyed to his wife Gloria, but I say again on this floor that our thoughts and prayers are with Gloria and his two sons, Charles and Carlton, and his four grandchildren. I know that I can speak for all Members of Congress when we convey our sympathy to them. I hope that it is a comfort to them that so many people mourn their loss and are praying for them at this sad time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-62) -- (House of Representatives - October 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and thank him for his tremendous work on  behalf of health care for all Americans in our country and in this case for our children. I commend Mr. Pallone for his leadership as well, and the distinguished chairmen, Mr. Rangel and Mr. Dingell. 
   I salute the bipartisan vote that we had in the Congress to send the SCHIP legislation to the President of the United States. It was strong and bipartisan. It was about the children. And I also salute the strong vote in the United States Senate. I commend Senators Hatch and Grassley for lending their weight and bipartisanship to this important legislation. They joined Senators Rockefeller and Baucus on this important issue. 
   Madam Speaker, as we all know and has been spoken already, today the President of the United States missed an opportunity to say to the children of America your health and well-being are important to us, so important that we are making you a priority. Today, the President said ``no'' to bipartisan legislation that would have extended health care to 10 million American children for the next 5 years. 
   The President said ``no'' to giving assurances to America's working families that if they work hard and play by the rules, we are their partners in raising the next generation of Americans and investing in the future. 
   In his speech and his veto statement, the President indicated we were doing something in this bill that we were not, that we were expanding eligibility. No, we were just enrolling all of the children who are eligible. In fact, we didn't have enough money to enroll all of them, but as many as could be afforded by a bill that could receive bipartisan support. 
   The President said that we are moving toward socialized medicine and that he supports private medicine. Well, so do we, and this is about private medicine. It is about children being able to get insurance so they can have health care. The fact is that 72 percent of the children on SCHIP receive their health care through private insurance programs. 
   I think the strongest indication of the President's commitment to this initiative came when he was Governor of Texas. At that time the State of Texas ranked 49th in its participation in SCHIP in meeting the needs of the children of Texas. 
   SCHIP started as a bipartisan initiative with a Democratic President, President Clinton in the White House and a Republican Congress which came together in a bipartisan way in order to provide for the needs of our children. Once again with the reauthorization of the bill, we have come together in a bipartisan way to provide for the needs of our children. 
   Sadly, following true to form, this form in Texas, 49th in the country, and how could Texas be 49th in the country with all of the pride that Texas takes in its stature, its size, its commitment to the future, its large number of beautiful and diverse children, that it would allow 48 States to be ahead of them in meeting the health needs of America's children from poor working families. 
   What I know will happen today is that we will vote for a time certain in 2 weeks for us to bring up the override of the veto. At that time I hope that with the 43 Governors across the country, Democrats and Republicans alike, with bipartisan overwhelming support in the House and Senate, with every organization from AARP to YMCA and everything alphabetically in between, including the Catholic Hospital Association, Families USA, and the American Medical Association talking about private medicine, and the list goes on, that Members will listen, at least listen to those who care about children, who have standing in caring about children because I believe every person in this Congress cares about children, and I think it would be important for us to hear the voices of those who on a day-to-day basis try to help families who need some assistance in meeting the health needs of their children. 
   So, my colleagues, this is, as Mr. Hoyer said, a defining moment for the Congress of the United States. The President has said ``no.'' This Congress must not take ``no'' for an answer, and I urge my colleagues to vote ``aye'' on a time certain when we can take up the override of the President's veto of the State Children's Health Insurance Program, an initiative to provide 10 million children health care, health insurance for 5 years. The difference between us and the President is 41 days in Iraq. For 41 days in Iraq, 10 million children can receive health care for 1 year.     
   Let's get our priorities in order. Let's recognize that the strength of our country, in addition to being defined by military might, is defined by the health and well-being of the American people, starting with our children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (GENETIC INFORMATION NONDISCRIMINATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 01, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act. 
   I would like to thank Congresswoman LOUISE SLAUGHTER for her outstanding leadership on this issue. For 13 years, she has worked to pass this bill protect Americans from genetic discrimination. She's both the powerful chair of the Rules Committee, and a microbiologist, so she knows what she is talking about. 
   The sequencing of the human genetic code is one of the great scientific accomplishments in the history of the world. It has the potential to treat and prevent disease. It is evidence of science's almost-biblical power to heal. 
   But with this scientific breakthrough comes a responsibility to protect Americans from the misuse of their genetic information. Today, the Congress will begin to fulfill that responsibility by passing this legislation. 
   This legislation prevents health insurers from adverse coverage or pricing decisions based on a person's genetic predisposition toward a disease. It ensures an employer cannot make adverse employment decisions based on what is in a person's genetic code. It also makes it illegal for an insurer or employer to request or demand a gene test. 
   Because of this legislation, Americans will be free to undergo genetic testing for diseases such as cancer, heart disease, diabetes, and Alzheimer's, without fearing for their job or health insurance. There is life-saving information in those tests. And for scientists, there is information that allows for huge breakthroughs. 
   This legislation is supported by the vast majority of the American people, 93 percent of whom do not want employers to have access to their genetic information. 
   This is such good policy that this legislation is supported by more than 500 organizations, including a broad coalition of civil rights and religious organizations. Health advocacy groups ranging from the American Academy of Pediatrics to the March of Dimes to the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation have endorsed it. 
   In the Congress, it has broad bipartisan support. It also has the support of the President. 
   Let us not wait another day to pass this legislation so it can move to the President's desk for his signature and become law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (RENEWABLE ENERGY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION TAX ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, for his very generous remarks, and for his tremendous leadership. Once again, he is providing an opportunity for this Congress to come down on the side of America's families instead of a special interest. Once again, he has come down at a place that talks about energy independence and security for our country. 
   One year ago, actually a little longer, in January of 2007, Mr. Rangel brought to the floor legislation similar to this. What it did was to repeal the subsidies for Big Oil and to use the funds for research into renewable energy resources  and incentives, tax incentives for that purpose. The bill passed the House overwhelmingly. It again passed as part of our bipartisan energy bill, but it did not survive the Senate because the President threatened to veto the bill if these subsidies to Big Oil were repealed. Imagine that. And so the energy bill, as much of a triumph as it was by having new CAFE standards for the first time in 32 years in the bill, did not have this very important other part, which would be the tax incentive for renewable energy resources. 
   Again, I thank Chairman Rangel for his persistence and for bringing this legislation to the floor now to give us this very special opportunity. 
   When Mr. Rangel first brought the bill to the floor last January, since then the price of gasoline at the pump has gone up 75 cents; 75 cents since we first took up this legislation. Imagine what that means to a household income. It is 17 cents, the price at the pump has increased 17 cents just in the past 2 weeks. Just yesterday, oil prices reached another new record at more than $101 per barrel. This is at a time when oil companies are making record profits. 
   Listen to this, my colleagues. Last year, ExxonMobil earned $40.6 billion in profit; $40.6 billion in profit. The largest corporate profit in American history. And yet, the administration refuses to repeal billions of dollars in subsidies to Big Oil. 
   This bill repeals those subsidies and invests in clean renewable energy that will put us on a path toward energy security and energy independence in a fiscally responsible way, by repealing subsidies to Big Oil, only to Big Oil, already making record profits. 
   With the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act that we are considering today, we have the opportunity to invest in clean, renewable energy and energy efficiency and grow our economy, creating new jobs, lower energy costs, strengthen national security and reduce global warming. 
   This legislation, and it is very important because there are so many people across the country who are being innovators, who are being disrupters, who are making change, and this change centering around energy is very, very important, and this legislation is vital to them. This legislation strengthens and extends the production tax credit which will spur deployment of wind, biomass, geothermal, hydropower, tidal, and landfill gas. It extends the solar and fuel cell investment tax credit and offers tax incentives for residential solar, wind, and geothermal technologies. It creates a new production tax credit for cellulosic ethanol and extends the biodiesel production tax credit. 
   It expands the tax credit for gas stations that install alternative fuel pumps, such as the E85 pumps. 
   It includes tax incentives to promote greater efficiency for homes and businesses and creates a new tax credit for plug-in hybrid vehicles. 
   It creates a new category of tax credit bonds to fund local initiatives to promote the deployment of green technologies. I know this has been said before. I reiterate this because this is very, very important and represents real change for our country. 
   This bill helps create broadly based prosperity with an $18 billion investment in the future. It will spur the production of clean renewable energy resources and provide business with the certainty necessary to make long-term plans to build viable and sustaining markets for these technologies. This is all about answers in the marketplace. 
   It will ensure that we keep the jobs that were created with the renewable tax credits and create hundreds of thousands more, the next generation of good-paying, green collar jobs that will be right here in America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2009 -- (House of Representatives - July 31, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman. 
   I have watched with interest the debate this evening, and I am so proud of the work that you, Mr. Edwards, are doing on this issue to honor America's vets and, Congressman Wamp, you as well. 
   I thank the chairman of the Veterans' Committee for bringing up this important issue of our Filipino vets. For years we have been pleading our case. Mr. Obey has listened patiently and tried to find a way for us to meet the needs of these people who served our country so well, who helped achieve the victory. 
   Promises were made; promises were not kept. And I know it is not possible to do something this evening, but I wanted to come to the floor to associate myself with the remarks of our  distinguished chairman, Bob Filner, who has worked relentlessly, as we all know, persistently, on this important issue. 
   We recently had a visit from the President of the Philippines, where she was very interested in the progress of this issue. 
   So, again, I associate myself with Mr. Filner's impassioned plea on this subject. Thank you for your leadership for our veterans on an ongoing basis. I am very proud of the leadership of this subcommittee. Under the chairman's leadership, we have been able to give the biggest increase in veterans' health funding in the 77-year history of the Veterans Administration, and just recently in the supplemental we were able to have the GI Bill for our veterans, thank you to our veterans, and when they come home we send them to college. Now this bill goes even further. 
   So I thank you and Mr. Wamp, both of you, for your leadership on this subject, and yield back the time to the distinguished chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, and thank him for his leadership on behalf of our veterans, all of our veterans, and in this case at this moment our Filipino vets. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (AMT RELIEF ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - December 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentleman, Mr. Neal, chairman of the subcommittee for yielding and also for his great leadership on issues that regard strengthening the middle class and growing the middle class in our country. 
   I also want to associate myself with the remarks of Mr. Neal when he extended his compliments to Mr. McCrery. He is a wonderful Member of Congress, and I am sorry to hear of his announced retirement. He will be missed here. 
   I listened attentively to Mr. McCrery's comments and want to speak to them because I think they pose the question that this House has to decide upon this evening very clearly. Mr. Rangel and Mr. Neal have given us the opportunity here tonight to send a clear message to the American people that the leverage in this country has changed to the middle class now instead of protecting the assets of the top 1 percent in our country. 
   Mr. McCrery says to give a tax cut, to prevent a tax increase we are going to increase taxes. Hello? He said, Hello? Hello, Mr. McCrery; yes, we are going to give tax relief to 23 million Americans, 23 million Americans, and approximately 5,000 to 10,000 Americans will be paying the tab. And they will be paying the tab because this legislation closes a loophole. We are closing a loophole. 
   These hedge fund CEOs who have taken their profits offshore to avoid taxes, this is called tax evasion, and this loophole closes that. So yes, tax relief for 23 million families, 10,000 or fewer people paying the price. 
   What is the alternative? As Mr. Neal mentioned, to borrow. Happily, my colleagues, for those of you who may not know, I got my seventh grandchild this weekend. And as it is with grandchildren, you always think of the world in which they will live and what we are doing, the fiscal soundness, in the country in which they will live. 
   So what we are saying to this newborn baby, we have a choice here tonight. We can either close the loophole of tax evasion for the wealthiest people in America in order to give tax relief to 23 million families in America, 5,000 to 10,000 get an increase, 23 million get tax relief, or we can say to the little baby and all little babies born across America and all their children, you are going to pay the tab because this money will be borrowed, probably from a foreign government, possibly from China, $50 billion. Fifty billion dollars. Put that on your tab, little baby, because you are going to be paying that price for a long time. 
   So it is either the American taxpayer, future generations, suffering if we go the Republican route, or it will be fairness, fairness, a new principle in tax policy in our country. The choice is clear. We choose tax relief for 23 million families with 10,000 or fewer people paying the tab. The wealthiest people, producing billions of dollars, billions of dollars once their loopholes are closed in order to foot the bill or passing this on to our children. 
   I wonder if our colleagues would be willing, when we talk about AMT, the alternative minimum tax and paying for it, or any other issue when we try to pay for it, if they would be interested when they suggest that we not pay for it, if they would be willing in the same vote to vote to increase the debt ceiling, because that is exactly what you are proposing. Let us not pay for this. Let us increase the national debt in order to give comfort to people who are evading their taxes by going offshore to the tune of billions of dollars. 
   So I think what the Ways and Means Committee has done is masterful. It is a mystery to me why it isn't bipartisan, and I hope that the bright light that we can shine on it tonight of fairness will encourage the Senate to support this legislation. 
   Not to pay for the AMT middle-class tax relief is really a hoax on the American people. I know that in the course of the debate my colleagues will make that clear. I thank you. 
   We have had many proud days in this Congress, when we passed SCHIP, the health insurance for 10 million American children, when we passed many pieces of legislation that related to our children, their health and education and the economic security of their families, the environment in which they live, a world at peace in which they can survive, but none of them has been as proud a day for me as when the Democrats stood tall for the middle class giving them tax relief, having it paid for so that those little children do not have to inherit the debt. 
   Once again, let's make this the children's Congress and vote for this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-80) -- (House of Representatives - December 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
   I thank Mr. Hoyer for his leadership on this very important legislation. He has worked very hard to try to achieve a level of bipartisanship on this legislation that could override the President's veto. In the United States Senate, there is a substantial bipartisan majority large enough to override the President's veto. I hope that we could achieve that in this House. We are not going to take up that vote tonight, as has been indicated by Mr. Hoyer. That debate and that vote will take place on January 23. 
   It is just very interesting to hear the reasons why the President of the United States said veto to the children of America. Veto in Latin: I forbid. I forbid the children of America, the children of working families who play by the rules and want the best for their children, who are struggling to make ends meet and who need health care and the health care that keeps them in the workforce and off of welfare and off of Medicaid. 
   Madam Speaker, it is particularly interesting to hear in this debate on the omnibus bill where there is talk of hundreds of billions of dollars more for the war in Iraq. For 40 days in Iraq, we can insure 10 million children in America; 40 days in Iraq, 10 million children in America. This is not an issue. This is a value. This is an ethic of the American people. The Democrats and Republicans, people of no party affiliation, everybody cares about the children of America. Over 80 percent of the American people support the SCHIP expansion that we want to do to double the number of children. 
   So when the President says we have not met his objections, he is moving the goal post. In his first veto message, he said he is concerned about the fact that people making $80,000 would be eligible for SCHIP. Not so. The only way they could be eligible is if the President of the United States himself gave them a waiver. The President has given waivers to families making 300 percent of poverty. The President himself has given that waiver. And now he is complaining about that level of income for families, hardworking families to receive SCHIP. 
   The President said he is concerned that there are still adults in the program. The Democratic response, bipartisan, strong, with 45 Republican votes, said that the adults would be phased out. The reason some of them are in there in the first place is that in order to get the children into the program, Governors had thought that it would be important to bring families into the program, and the President of the United States, President Bush's policy allowed that to happen. So he is turning his back on his own policy. He is turning his back on these children by saying their families should be off of SCHIP. 
   So when the President says he is opposed to the bill because it raises taxes, then we get to the heart of the matter. This bill is paid by an increase in the cigarette tax, and this is really why the President is vetoing the bill. The President is saying that rather than raise the cigarette tax, he would prefer to prevent an additional 5 million children in our country from getting access to quality health care. 
   The President has also said in other comments about this legislation, everyone in America has access to health care; they can just go to the emergency room. That was probably one of the most ill-informed, with stiff competition for that honor, but nonetheless probably one of the most ill-informed statements that could ever be made by anyone dealing with public policy and access to health care. 
   So again, I think all the Members of Congress who voted for this in a very strong bipartisan way in the House and the Senate can take great pride in setting a high watermark for what this Congress should be doing for children of working families in America. 
   I salute Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Dingell, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Stark for their exceptional leadership. I also salute Mr. LaHood for what he tried to do to bring bipartisanship to all of this. I commend Senator Grassley and Senator Hatch for their courageous leadership in the Senate, in leading the way to a veto-proof majority of Democrats and Republicans in the United States Senate. 
   Whether you are talking about Easter Seals or the March of Dimes, the Association of Catholic Hospitals, AARP, AMA to YWCA, to everything alphabetically in between, everyone supports SCHIP except the President of the United States and those in this body who will side with him on this vote. 
   What a sad day. What a sad day that the President would say, rather than insuring 5 million children, I don't want to raise the cigarette tax. What a sad day when we would spend in 40 days in Iraq what it takes to insure 10 million children in America for 1 year. But we are not going to let this veto stand. We will act upon it and we will continue to fight the fight until 10 million children at a minimum in America have access to quality health care under the SCHIP program. It is the wish of the Governors. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. CON. RES. 70, CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - June 05, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentleman, the Chair of the Budget Committee, for yielding, and I thank him for bringing this excellent document to the floor, a budget which will help us protect our country, grow our economy, give middle income tax cuts, and do so in a fiscally sound way. 
   Mr. Speaker, as we all know, our budget is a statement of our national values. At least it should be. Now for the first time in our New Direction Congress, last year and this year, for 2 years straight, we have put forth a budget resolution, the first time a budget resolution has been put forth in an election year by the Congress since the Republicans took over. Now the Democrats are in charge and we have had 2 years of responsible budgeting. 
   I listened with interest to our colleagues and their views on this budget. They certainly are entitled to their opinion, but they are not entitled to their own set of facts. I want to just quote from some of the responsible independent budget organizations, some of them conservative-leaning organizations, when it comes to their false claim about this budget increasing taxes. 
   The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget says, ``The conference agreement does not raise taxes.'' 
   The Hamilton Project of the Brookings Institution says very clearly, ``The budget would not raise taxes.'' Indeed, your budget, Mr. Spratt, indicates that one of your priorities is making up-front cuts in taxes for alternative minimum tax relief that ultimately would be paid for without increasing the budget deficit. 
   The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities says, ``Some claim that the budget plan of the conferees would constitute `the largest tax increase in history.' This claim is inaccurate. This year's budget plan does not include a tax increase. It actually calls for a $340 billion reduction in revenues.'' 
   The problem that our friends on the Republican side have is that these tax cuts are for the middle class, not just for their friends in the upper 1 percent bracket. These tax cuts address the marriage penalty, address the 10 percent tax bracket, address the child tax credit. The middle class and those who aspire to it benefit from this budget. 
   This is a fiscally sound budget, and for that we are all in Mr. Spratt's debt. This budget has to be balanced in terms of its spending and its priorities, and, indeed, it is a statement of our values. 
   I would like to see anyone in this room who supports veterans say they cannot support the budget provisions in this legislation. In this bill, for our veterans it provides an additional $3.7 billion for veterans health care and services, which is why this budget has the strong support of major veterans groups. 
   When it comes to energy, an issue of major concern to households across America, this budget provides $7.7 billion for renewable energy, energy efficiency and other energy initiatives, which is $2.7 billion more than just last year. 
   In innovation, let's stop having these stale debates about trade or no trade. Let's educate, innovate, compete and prevail in the global marketplace. This budget provides nearly $2 billion to fully accommodate the commitments made in the America COMPETES Act, which was voted on by an overwhelming number of Republicans to give us a huge vote in the Congress and signed by the President. This is to spur innovation and invest in basic scientific innovation. 
   Again, by setting the right priorities and making tough choices, our budget also cuts taxes again for the middle class and those aspiring to it and protects 20 million households from the alternative minimum tax. 
   In any year, creating a budget is a difficult challenge. In an election year, it is even more challenging, because of all of the competing priorities that  want to be in the budget. But this year we have a budget that is in balance in terms of its values and is in balance in terms of the track that it puts us on. 
   Thank you, Mr. Spratt, for putting us on track, with no deficit, for the budget to be in balance by 2012. It is fully compliant with pay-as-you-go rules. It is a budget, again, of the statement of our values, fiscally responsible, pay-as-you-go. It has tremendous merit, and it should have the support of every person in this body. 
   I urge a ``yes'' vote on the budget.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (IRAQ WAR RESOLUTION -- (House of Representatives - February 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and for his exceptional leadership in the national security of our country. 
   My colleagues, for 3 days and nights, more than 350 Members of Congress have come to the floor to speak their conscience about the war in Iraq and the President's escalation proposal. I commend my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for the tenor, for the most part, and the substance of their remarks. 
   There is one proposition on which we can all agree: Our troops have performed excellently in Iraq. They have done everything asked of them. And as the resolution states, Congress and the American people will continue to support and protect the members of the United States Armed Forces who are serving or who have served bravely and honorably in Iraq. We owe our troops a debt of gratitude for their patriotism, for their courage, and for the sacrifices they are willing to make. 
   As a sign of our respect for them, particularly those who have lost their lives in the war, and for their families, I request that we observe a moment of silence. 
   Thank you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (RECOGNIZING SEPTEMBER 11 AS A DAY OF REMEMBRANCE -- (House of Representatives - September 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank him for bringing this resolution to the floor, and I thank Mr. Hoyer and Mr. Boehner for cosponsoring this very important resolution to remember what happened on 9/11 6 years ago. 
   On that terrible day, our country received an assault that was personal, and it was vicious. Our country responded with unity and with clarity about our resolve to fight terrorism. On a personal basis, for the families who were affected, I want to thank them, the families of 9/11, for turning their grief and their sorrow into action. They inspired our country to form a 9/11 Commission, to have the 9/11 Commission recommendations passed into law and signed by President Bush this summer. For that, all of us who care about the security of our country and the safety of our people owe those families a deep debt of gratitude. We also owe them the sympathy that their lost ones, their loved ones, will always be in our hearts. 
   Earlier today, Mr. Speaker, I went to Ground Zero. I saw the rebuilding that is going on at that site. It is not without great sadness that one visits that hallowed ground. It is not without remembering when some of us visited the first time 6 years ago following the tragedy. At that time, it was total silence, no speaking, no photographs, just a somber evaluation of the destruction that had been wrought and about the lives that had been lost. Today, Ground Zero is rebuilding. It is rebuilding to remember, with a memorial to remember; and it is rebuilding to say to the terrorists that they have not won. 
   The main goal of terrorists is to terrorize, to instill fear. They don't care about lives. They don't care about buildings. They just want to make people afraid. They want to change the way we run our country, do our business, live our lives and honor our freedoms. But if that was their goal, they certainly have failed. Whether it is at the Pentagon, where a wreath will be laid tomorrow, or it is in Pennsylvania, where we will mourn that loss forever, or whether it is in New York City at Ground Zero, the American spirit is alive and well. Again, they have lost this fight because we will not change who we are. That is what they resent. That is what we will not relent on. 
   So to those families, thank you. We will always, again, carry your loved ones in our hearts; but thank you for turning grief into power, into law, into a safer America. To those courageous people who rushed in, whether it was the emergency services, the police and fire, whether it was just volunteers, people off the street going in trying to help, whether it was construction companies going in trying to clear the area, to them we also say thank you for their courage at Ground Zero. 
   But we owe them more, as well. So I hope that in our resolve to remember and to rebuild, to honor our freedoms and to honor our people, we will understand that we must honor a responsibility we have to those who tried to  save lives at Ground Zero, who may have lost their health because of it. So in my trip to New York at Ground Zero and at City Hall, I talked to the mayor and the Governor about how we can work together in a bipartisan way to see what is fair and what can be done now so that fairness will prevail for these people, but that the message will be clear. God forbid if we are ever faced with another situation that we have a compact with our people that if we stand together, we will not stand alone if we are affected by another tragedy. It is very sad. 
   I thank Mr. Hoyer and Mr. Boehner for putting together this very excellent resolution. Following the vote later this evening, we will leave the Chamber and go down the steps of the Capitol to have a vigil on the eve of 9/11. As the distinguished majority leader, Mr. Hoyer, mentioned, 6 years ago, spontaneously, Members, Democrats and Republicans alike, came together and at his suggestion we sang ``God Bless America.'' He is too modest. We will do that again tonight. We will sing that song with all the sincerity in the world. Moved by its beauty, but also committed to its words, we know that God has truly blessed America with our men and women in uniform who are fighting terrorism, with our first responders who are our first line of defense in our community in ensuring homeland security and with all Americans joined together to never forget what happened on 9/11 and never forget that we are committed to our freedoms. 
   So don't forget, my colleagues, following the vote on this resolution, in about another hour, let's all join together. It will be one of the first memorials to 9/11 this year, once again, on the steps of the Capitol. With that, I commend Mr. Boehner and Mr. Hoyer. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' HEALTH, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - April 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, thank you very much. I thank the gentleman for yielding and commend him for his exceptional leadership in bringing this important legislation to the floor. I also acknowledge the leadership of Mr. Murtha and Mr. Skelton for all that they are doing to make our country safer and to support our troops. 
   Mr. Speaker, the war in Iraq is the greatest ethical challenge facing our Nation. This is so because our troops are being sent into battle without the training, equipment. And the strategic plan for success because the administration is not honoring our commitment to our veterans and because the Iraqi war has strained our military, and therefore weakened our ability to fight the war on terrorism. 
   By placing an unacceptable strain on our military, this war is undermining our ability to protect the American people. Instead of making the American people safer, the war in Iraq has weakened our ability to protect our Nation from the threat posed by international terrorism, I repeat. 
   As Major General Petraeus said, right now we are not prepared. We are not prepared for the threat this Nation faces here at home. And, because in this business you cannot be half ready or half prepared, you are either ready or you are not. 
   We have put our citizens at greater risk. We have put their lives at greater risk, their property, our economy, our way of life, and that is just unacceptable. 
   Instead of strengthening our hand, the President's policies in Iraq have weakened our reputation in the world and diminished our ability to lead the international effort against terrorism, which again is the real threat. 
   With U.S. focus on Iraq, the war in Afghanistan has intensified because of the resurgence of the Taliban and al Qaeda in the absence of the fullest effort on our part there. 
   As Major General John Baptiste said, Here is the bottom line. Americans must come to grips with the fact that our military alone cannot establish a democracy. We cannot sustain the current operational tempo without seriously damaging the Army and the Marine Corps. Our troops have been asked to carry the burden of an ill-conceived mission. End of quote, Major General John Baptiste. 
   Our troops have done everything that they have been asked to do and excellently. We salute them for their courage, their patriotism, and the sacrifices they and their families are making. Instead of being honored as the heroes they are when they come home, our wounded veterans are being forced to cope with a system that is not equipped to care for them. Preparation was not made. 
   Americans have been shocked by the revelations of the appalling care at Walter Reed. As Senator Max Cleland, a great patriot, a decorated Army veteran, said, Walter Reed is the ugly face of the Iraq war. It is a face that the American people need to see because this administration from the beginning never planned to deal with casualties, never planned for the consequences of this war. 
   Last fall, the American people voted for a new direction in Iraq. They made it clear that our troops must be given all they need to do their jobs but that our troops must be brought home responsibly, safely and soon. 
   The President responded to this clear call for winding down the war in Iraq with a policy of escalation in Iraq that has been tried three times previously and failed and, additionally, has burdened our already strained military. 
   The problems addressed in this bill are problems of the President's own making. From the start of the war, the President has failed to recognize and to request in his budget the funds needed by our troops serving in Iraq, as has been indicated by the distinguished chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Mr. Obey.     
   This is the seventh emergency appropriations bill that Congress has had to pass to make up for the President's failure, seven emergencies. What is the surprise? Why aren't they understanding the cost of this war in lives and health, in reputation, in dollars, and the readiness of our military? 
   Furthermore, the President's budgets have failed to provide adequately for the medical needs of our troops wounded in Iraq and for other veterans. This bill supports our troops, honors our commitments to our veterans, rebuilds our military, and holds the Iraqi government accountable. It winds down the war by providing for the responsible redeployment of our combat forces based on benchmarks endorsed by the Iraqi government and by President Bush. They are his own benchmarks. 
   Oddly, though, even though they are the President's own benchmarks, holding the administration accountable to benchmarks has been criticized by the administration. They are criticizing their own benchmarks. Yet both Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and retired Major General Paul Eaton, formerly in charge of training of Iraqi security forces, have noted the value of timelines in persuading Iraqis to make the political compromises needed to end the violence. 
   Secretary Gates noted, we are all familiar with this, it bears repeating, ``The strong feelings expressed in Congress about the timetables probably has had a positive impact ..... in terms of communicating to the Iraqis that this is not an open-ended commitment.'' 
   General Eaton said, ``This bill gives General Petraeus great leverage for moving the Iraqi government down the more disciplined path laid out by the Iraq Study Group.'' 
   My colleagues, the war in Iraq has lasted longer than World War II and resulted in the lowest level of American military readiness since the Vietnam War. It has cost thousands of American lives, tens of thousands, scores of thousands of Iraqi lives, plus tens of thousands of our soldiers to suffer grievous injuries, and will cost well over $1 trillion if the war ended today. 
   The sacrifices borne by our troops and their families demand more than the blank check the President is asking for, for a war without end. The sacrifices demand a plan for bringing the war to an end. This bill contains that plan and provides the President for every dollar he asked for the troops, and, indeed, thank you, Mr. Murtha, much more. 
   I urge my colleagues to support it. I urge the President to sign the bill so that we can focus on winning the war against terrorism, which is the real threat to the American people. That is our responsibility, and we fully intend to honor it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EXPRESSING SENSE OF THE HOUSE REGARDING SYRIA'S CONTINUED INTERFERENCE IN THE AFFAIRS OF LEBANON -- (House of Representatives - October 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, the United States has a long and deep history of supporting the sovereignty and independence of the Lebanese people. That is why we must condemn in the strongest terms possible continued Syrian and Iranian interference in Lebanese affairs. 
   The Lebanese parliament is currently engaged in the process of selecting a new president, a task unfortunately complicated by the meddling of outsiders, most notably Syria and Iran, and their terrorist proxy in Lebanon, Hezbollah. Syrian and Iranian interference in Lebanon must be condemned by the international community in the strongest possible terms and it must immediately end. 
   The resolution before the House chronicles the tragic toll exacted on Lebanon and its people by its neighbors. It is a tale of a peaceful people seeking a better future who again and again have seen their hopes dashed due to the cruel and opportunistic machinations of Iran and Syria. 
   I recently met for the second time this year with Sheikh Saad Hariri, the leader of the majority in the Lebanese parliament, whose family has given so much for the freedom of the Lebanese people. Mr. Hariri made an eloquent appeal for help from the Congress of the United States and other parliamentary bodies to expose the interference of non-Lebanese groups in the selection of Lebanon's next president. I commend the bipartisan leadership of the House Foreign Affairs Committee for acting quickly so the House could go on record against these tactics before the next meeting of the Lebanese parliament later this month. 
   The politically-motivated violence that has been so much a part of Lebanon's recent history has not dampened the desire of the Lebanese people for self-determination. 
   The Cedar Revolution was an eloquent and powerful testament to that fact; a fact which deserves the respect of all nations. Passage of this resolution puts the House squarely on the side of the freedom-loving people of Lebanon and I urge its adoption.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 19, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, for yielding. 
   I want to join my colleague, Mr. Obey, the distinguished chairman of the Appropriations Committee, in acknowledging the great work of Rob Nabors and all of the staff involved in putting this bill together today. 
   I want to join him in acknowledging the leadership of the distinguished minority leader, our majority leader, Mr. Hoyer, the chairman, Mr. Rangel, for his important work on unemployment insurance, Mr. McDermott, who just spoke, for his important work getting the bill ready. Mr. Lewis, to you and to Mr. Cantor and all involved in all this. Mr. Murtha, to you as well, and Mr. Skelton, to you as well. 
   We were able to come to this compromise because we were ready. As Mr. McDermott said, earlier in the year we had a bill ready for unemployment insurance. It wasn't going to be signed by the President. We had to put it off until another time. Two weeks ago tomorrow, the unemployment rate in our country shot up by half a point from approximately 5 to 5.5 percent. It sent a very stern message to the Congress of the United States and to the President that we must act. 
   Following that, on the floor last week, on two occasions, we had a very strong bipartisan vote in favor of unemployment insurance. So when Mr. Rangel went to the table to talk about compromise, it was clear that we had to reflect the will of the American people, and he was ready, he was ready with the legislation. And I'm pleased that Mr. Boehner was ready to accept that. 
   When we started talking about the final versions of this bill in the past couple of weeks, little did we know that the skies would open and rain would fall and the Midwest of our country would be deluged, and there would be a need to make some adjustment in this bill for disaster assistance to the Midwest and to replenish the FEMA fund to make up for funds spent now. We were ready. And I don't think there was any compromise on that subject; we all agreed that that had to be done. 
   I am particularly pleased that in the legislation there is a signal sent that this Congress cares about investments in science, it cares about the future, not as much as I would like, but nonetheless, I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for having that included. And I thank my colleagues for accepting that. 
   I want to join in all the commendations, again, to those who helped bring this compromise to the floor. I am very pleased that it has the GI Bill, finally. It became clear that this is what we had to do, what we owed our young people to say thank you to them by sending them to college. Mr. Chet Edwards has been a champion on this issue. I will come back to that in a moment. 
   But, Mr. Speaker, I'm sorry that I cannot fully participate in all of the comradery that is accompanying this legislation that we bring to the floor because of the huge amount of money that is in this bill to fund the war in Iraq without any conditions, without any limitation on time spent there. I'm glad that we have something about no permanent bases, yes, but this is the first time that we will be sending a bill--well, we sent it to the Senate with conditions and they struck it. We have no choice. This is not about a failure of this House of Representatives; it's about what we cannot get past the next body and onto the President's desk. 
   Mr. Speaker, about a week ago, I spoke at the opening of the groundbreaking for the Institute of Peace. I know that you have been involved in that over the years. And I said that day, on a warm June day like today, it was reminiscent of one 45 years ago when President John F. Kennedy delivered the commencement address at American University. 
   In the last summer of a life that ended far too soon, President Kennedy spoke of the need to seek peace even in the midst of the Cold War. He said, ``The United States, as the world knows, will never start a war,'' Kennedy told the crowd assembled. ``We shall be prepared if others wish it, we shall be alert to try to stop it, but we shall also do our part to build a world of peace where the weak are safe and the strong are just.'' That was President Kennedy's philosophy of his foreign policy. 
   Contrary to that policy, President Bush started a war based on a false  premise. He sent our troops into a situation that he didn't know what he was getting into. The philosopher Hannah Arendt once said, she observed that nations are driven by the endless flywheel of violence, believing that one last, one final violent gesture will bring peace. But each time they sow the seeds for more violence. 
   Five years later, we are still engaged in the war in Iraq, 2 years longer than we were in World War II, and that has come at a very great cost. The costs are clear, of course, and we all mourn 4,100 of our troops who have lost their lives in battle, tens of thousands of our troops injured, thousands of them permanently. I met with some of them with my colleagues, Mr. Dicks, Mr. Inslee and Mr. McDermott, at the Seattle VA Hospital last Friday. And before that, Mr. Murtha and I visited our troops in the hospital as well here in Washington, D.C. 
   Over Memorial Day, I visited our troops in Iraq with some of our colleagues. It was my sixth trip into the theater. And what they asked me is what they always ask: What's going to happen to us when we go home? And for a long time on those visits I didn't have an answer that I could be very, very pleased to tell them. But now, because of the leadership of Mr. Edwards, and others, we're able to say that when you come home, you will be met with the biggest increase in the Veterans Administration health budget in the 77-year history of the Veterans Administration, and that means in the history of our country, an even bigger investment this year. 
   And after tonight, in a bipartisan way, we can proudly say--and Mr. Young, who has done more than you? You have just been wonderful, and I salute you as well. We can proudly say to our troops, to our young student veterans, that when they come home, we will say thank you by sending them to college; $7 for every dollar spent on the GI Bill following World War II. We owe these troops nothing else. 
   Now let's go back to the cost of that war. We talked about those who lost their lives, we talked about those who are permanently injured. And it's such a sad story. The cost to our reputation in the world is enormous. The cost in dollars, the Heritage Foundation said $2.75 trillion. The Heritage Foundation, that's their figure; nearly $3 trillion projected to be the cost of this war. 
   And so it's hard to understand when we say to the President, we would like to insure 10 million children in America, and he says we can't afford it, so I vetoed the bill. And the Republicans stuck with him on that veto--not all, many voted in a bipartisan way. Forty days in Iraq, 10 million children insured in America for 1 year. We can't afford it? $2.75 trillion, the cost of this war. 
   But what is worrisome--I know to Mr. Skelton, to Mr. Murtha, and I'm certain to Mr. Young, although he has not given me license to speak for him--is the cost of the military capability of our Nation, lives, limbs, reputation, dollars, opportunity costs at home. But this is about keeping the American people safe. That's what we take an oath of office to do, to provide for the common defense. And our ability to honor our oath of office to uphold the Constitution--in the preamble it says ``to provide for the common defense''--is greatly diminished because this war has diminished the capability of American military forces to protect our interests wherever they are threatened in the world. 
   So let us think and hope that this is the last time that there will ever be another dollar spent without constraints, without conditions, without direction. Why should we trust the same judgment that got us here in the first place in this war? 
   So while I'm pleased that we have some spirit of civility here tonight about coming to a conclusion on this bill to bring it to the floor, and I enthusiastically will vote for the domestic piece of this, I'm not urging anyone to do anything, I just want you to know why I would be voting ``no'' on the spending without constraints. 
   We owe our troops more than sending them into war on a false premise, without the equipment and training they need, without a plan for success, without a strategy to leave. This war has not made the region more stable, it has not made our country safer. It has undermined our capability to protect the American people. It should come to an end safely, honorably, responsibly, and soon. 
   Mr. OBEY, Mr. Speaker, I submit the following: 
   Explanatory Statement Submitted by Mr. Obey, Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, Regarding the Further Amendment of the House of Representatives Relating to Supplemental Appropriations for Fiscal Years 2008 and 2009 
   Following is an explanation of the further amendment of the House of Representatives (relating to supplemental appropriations for fiscal years 2008 and 2009) to the Senate amendment numbered 2 to the House amendment numbered 2 to the Senate amendment to H.R. 2642, the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008. 
   In this statement, the provisions of the further House amendment are generally referred to as ``the amended bill''. 
   The further House amendment provides that, in lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted by the Senate, language be inserted providing supplemental appropriations for military construction, international affairs, disaster assistance, and other security-related and domestic needs, as well as language providing for accountability in contracting, improved veterans education benefits, temporary extended unemployment compensation, and a moratorium on certain Medicaid regulations. The amendment also strikes lines 1 through 3 on page 60 of the Senate engrossed amendment of September 6, 2007. 
   The text of the amendment is printed in the Rules Committee report (H. Rpt. 110-720) to accompany House Resolution 1284. 
   Unless otherwise noted, all appropriations in the amendment are designated as emergency requirements and necessary to meet emergency needs pursuant to section 204(a) of S. Con. Res. 21 and section 301(b)(2) of S. Con. Res. 70, the congressional budget resolutions for fiscal years 2008 and 2009. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (FREE FLOW OF INFORMATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 16, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairman for yielding, and I appreciate his strong leadership in protecting and defending the Constitution of the United States. He leads us well in honoring our oath of office that we take. 
   I commend the cosponsors of this bipartisan legislation, Mr. Boucher and Mr. Pence, for their leadership and commitment to working in a bipartisan way on an issue central to our democracy. 
   Thomas Jefferson once wrote, ``Our liberty depends on the freedom of the press, and that cannot be limited without being lost.'' Freedom of the press, protected by the first amendment, has been a cornerstone of our democracy, one that we cherish and promote around the world. 
   A free press keeps our Nation informed and holds those of us in government accountable. It is critical to freedom of speech and expression in our country. Freedom of the press is fundamental to our democracy and it is fundamental to our security. 
   Speaking truth to power is vital to our democracy today, as it has been throughout our history. 
   Mr. Speaker, the recent contracting scandals in Iraq, the appalling care of our wounded soldiers at Walter Reed Hospital, and the hidden Medicare drug prescription estimates a few years ago are several of the many examples where press coverage shaped our debate and our actions. These stories are central to accountability, the accountability necessary to make our Nation stronger and to be better stewards of the taxpayers' dollars. 
   However, the essential work of the press has been severely hampered by the lack of a consistent Federal standard or a federally recognized privilege concerning the disclosure of confidential sources by journalists. As a result, in recent years, more than 40 reporters have been subpoenaed for the identities of confidential sources in nearly a dozen cases. 
   Former Solicitor General Ted Olson, who served under President George W. Bush, wrote recently in The Washington Post, ``Journalists reporting on high-profile controversies cannot function effectively without offering some measure of confidentiality to their sources. Their ability to do so yields substantial benefits to the public in the form of stories that might otherwise never be written about corruption and abuse of power.'' 
   Nearly all States have some form of press shield protecting the confidentiality of journalist sources; however, that protection is lacking at the Federal level and in the Federal courts. 
   It is for this reason that I have long supported a Federal press shield law, without which freedom of the press is threatened. The Federal Government's policies and actions should protect and preserve the press's ability to speak  truth to power. And this legislation does so with appropriate national security safeguards, striking a careful balance between liberty and security. 
   Freedom of the press has long been an issue of importance to many of us in this body. When I was the ranking member of the Intelligence Committee, I encouraged President Clinton to veto the Intelligence Committee authorization bill one year because it made it easier to prosecute journalists. We fixed those provisions and passed a bill that both protected our Nation and protected our fundamental freedoms. 
   Mr. Speaker, we seek today to protect the freedom of the press that has served our Nation so well. We also seek to make clear to confidential sources that they will be protected in most circumstances when they bring forward public evidence of waste, fraud and abuse in government and in the private sector. 
   As we protect and defend our Nation, we must now protect and defend the Constitution by enabling our press to be free, as our Founders envisioned. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (HONORING THE FIRST RESPONDERS AND SUPPORTING THE VICTIMS OF THE SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA WILDFIRES -- (House of Representatives - October 30, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding and for bringing this legislation to the floor. I want to commend the cochairs of our delegation, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren and Congressman David Dreier, both from California, being the cochairs of our delegation, and all of our colleagues who come to the floor today and join us in expressing our appreciation to our men and women in uniform, our first responders, emergency services personnel, and our firefighters who conducted themselves in such a brave, brave and tireless manner to protect the people and the homes and businesses of California. 
   Today, we thank God that the winds have finally died down and our brave first responders were able to contain the largest fire in the Golden State's history. As I said, our first responders, our firefighters, were courageous and tireless. More than 11,000 personnel, including thousands of firefighters from across California and neighboring States, and thank you to our neighboring States for their participation, and 2,500 of our brave National Guardsmen and -women worked through long days and nights to battle the dangerous flames. 
   In doing so, as I said, they saved lives, homes and businesses. For that, we will be forever grateful. 
   Today in California, five fires still burn. As these fires are quenched, the hard work of restoring the regular order of residents' lives begins. We can now begin the accounting of our staggering losses: seven dead and more than 100 injured; 500,000 acres burned; 1 million residents forced to evacuate; 1,400 homes destroyed across seven counties. 
   But as the victims of the fire know, the tragedy can't be expressed in those numbers. It is in the lost baby photos and treasured mementos gone forever. It is in the fear of knowing that in an instant life can take a tragic turn. 
   I salute Governor Schwarzenegger and the Governor's Office of Emergency Services for their efforts and leadership in protecting the people in the area and containing the fires. 
   I am very pleased that President Bush responded to the request of the Governor and the California bipartisan delegation in declaring what was happening in California as a major disaster. 
   Today, we vow that our response to this fire will not end once those flames  are extinguished. The California congressional delegation will work in a bipartisan way with the entire Congress, with the Governor and the President to ensure short-term and long-term needs are met. 
   To those who have suffered personal losses, whether it's the loss of a loved one, personal injury, loss of their homes and their communities, as Speaker of the House, I extend the deepest sympathy and the fullest support of the House of Representatives. We stand with you today and in the days of rebuilding to come. 
   Once again, I acknowledge the leadership of Mr. Clay and Mr. Duncan and thank them for giving us this opportunity to express our appreciation to our firefighters and our first responders in California. 
   Thank you very much, gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (RENEWABLE ENERGY AND JOB CREATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 21, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I proudly rise in support of the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act. I am enthusiastic about it because it will cut taxes for millions of middle-income families and grow the U.S. economy, it will invest in renewable energy technologies to create high-paying green jobs, it will make us more energy independent, and it will remove incentives in the Tax Code that encourage shipping jobs and investments overseas. 
   I would like to acknowledge the extraordinary leadership of the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Mr. CHARLIE RANGEL. He has brought a bill to the floor that makes key investments in our families and our future. And I thank the gentleman from Washington State, Mr. McDermott, for his leadership and for yielding me time. 
   This is how the bill will cut taxes. Here are seven reasons why everybody in this Congress should vote for this bill. Any one of them should be enough. 
   First, it provides 30 million homeowners with property tax relief. 
   Secondly, it helps 13 million children by expanding the child tax credit. 
   Third, it benefits 11 million families through the State and local sales tax deduction. 
   Fourth, it helps 4.5 million families better afford college with tuition deductions. 
   Next, it saves 3.4 million teachers money with a deduction for classroom expenses. Imagine now when our teachers go into classrooms that are not fully equipped. They have to pay for that equipment themselves. This at least says if you do that, you will get a tax deduction. 
   It provides more than 22,000 military families with tax relief under the earned income tax credit. 
   And it ensures U.S. competitiveness by expanding the research and development tax credit. 
   That is how it cuts taxes. There are seven reasons right there, any one of which I think is sufficient to vote for this bill. 
   When it comes to gas prices, Mr. Speaker, as we debate this legislation American families are paying record prices at the pump. Yesterday the cost of a barrel of oil passed $129 for the first time in history. Today I believe it went past $130. This legislation invests in the future and the ingenuity of the American people to create and deploy cutting-edge renewable technologies that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and this is how it does that. 
   It strengthens and extends the production tax credit which will spur the deployment of wind, biomass, geothermal, hydropower, tidal and landfill gas. 
   Next, it transitions biofuel beyond corn by creating a new tax credit to promote the production of cellulosic biofuels. 
   Next, it expands and extends the solar and fuel cell investment tax credit and offers tax incentives for residential, solar, wind and geothermal technologies. It provides tax incentives for coal electricity plants that capture and  sequester carbon dioxide. It includes incentives to encourage energy efficient products, such as plug-in hybrid cars and incentives for energy conservation, both in commercial buildings and residential structures. And it creates a new category of tax credit bonds to fund local initiatives to promote the deployment of green technologies. 
   This is a comprehensive approach, the missing part of the energy bill that we passed last year because it did not have the tax credits. Now we do. This industry can take off. We can have private sector initiatives to grow our economy, create good-paying jobs here at home, green jobs, and have the green economic revolution that is so important to our future. 
   And this is all being done in a fiscally sound way. No new deficit spending. It is paid for. This forward-looking legislation invests in renewable energy, creates hundreds of thousands of good-paying green jobs, spurs American innovation, and cuts taxes, cuts taxes, for millions of Americans. And it does so, as I mentioned, in a fiscally responsible way. 
   To invest in our future, this bill closes loopholes allowing corporations and executives to avoid paying certain taxes by shipping jobs and investments overseas. The New Direction Congress thinks we should focus tax benefits on creating jobs and encouraging investments here at home. 
   Despite the strong case for rescinding taxpayer subsidies for big oil companies making record profits, opposition by the Senate Republicans to these offsets makes their inclusion untenable for the bill being debated today. But we will come back to that.     
   Today's bill represents a concerted effort to enact a bill into law promptly, and thus relies on revenue offsets that enjoy strong bipartisan support. 
   I urge my colleagues to join Mr. Rangel and members of the Ways and Means Committee and Members of our House on both sides of the aisle who care about an energy future for America that reduces our dependence on foreign oil. It is a national security issue, it is an economic issue, it is an environmental and health issue, it is an energy issue, it is a moral issue for us to preserve God's beautiful creation, this planet, and to pass it on to the next generation in a responsible way. 
   I urge my colleagues to support the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (MEDICARE IMPROVEMENTS FOR PATIENTS AND PROVIDERS ACT OF 2008--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 110-131) -- (House of Representatives - July 15, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding, I commend him for his extraordinary leadership on this subject. 
   Madam Speaker, I have not been able to watch the entire debate, because I was involved in meetings, but I hope it was made known to all who are following this debate how historic this is that we have Mr. Dingell as part of the management of this bill and bringing this bill to the floor. He comes from a strong tradition of access to affordable, reliable health care for all Americans. 
   His father had it as his life's work in the Congress. Mr. Dingell was a young Congressman at the time he sat and presided. He sat in the chair and presided and gaveled the passage of the Medicare bill. I don't know if that has been discussed here today, but I want to be sure that all who follow the record of Congress know of the long history, the family tradition and the tremendous leadership that Mr. Dingell has provided in this regard. 
   I also want to commend Mr. Pallone from the Energy and Commerce Committee for his work in this important legislation; Mr. Stark, the Chair of the committee of jurisdiction in the Ways and Means Committee. Thank you, Mr. Stark, for your leadership. I also commend Mr. Rangel for the important work that he did to make this vote possible today. 
   People across America saw us pass this bill before the Fourth of July break, and it was celebrated by seniors who were concerned, and with people with disabilities, who were concerned about the impact of this however modest reform of Medicare. After the break, the Senate took up the bill once again. They failed with 59 votes the first time. You need 60 in the Senate, as you know. 
   The whole country was jubilant and applauded when Senator Kennedy came to the floor, a fighter for America's seniors, a fighter for people with disabilities, a fighter for our children,  a fighter for working families in America. He left his own physical challenge behind to come to the floor of the Senate all the way from Massachusetts to be the 60th vote. 
   It was such an historic moment, and nine Republican Senators changed their votes on the strength of Senator Kennedy's vote. It was 59 until he voted, and then he made the 60th, and then it became 69, and it was pretty exciting. People cheered, and everyone was tear filled and happy that this happened, affordable, reliable, health care for America's seniors and those with disabilities passed. 
   Then the President said that he would veto the bill. It was such a downer. 
   Here we are again today to come back to have an overwhelming bipartisan support in the Congress of the United States, in the House of Representatives, to say to the American people we understand the challenges they face. All of the seniors organizations and disabilities groups, of course, support this legislation, but just about every health-care providing group in our country supports this legislation as well, except one, and that is some in the health insurance industry. I guess the President is voting with them and not with America's seniors and those with disabilities when he vetoes the bill. 
   I am very proud of the work of, again, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Dingell, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Stark. I thank them for their leadership. You have given us an opportunity to vote for the American people, not only as their representatives, but on their behalf, and we are all grateful to you for that. I urge a vote to override the veto.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (10,000 TEACHERS, 10 MILLION MINDS SCIENCE AND MATH SCHOLARSHIP ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding. I commend the distinguished chairman of the Science Committee and the ranking member for their leadership in bringing this legislation to the floor with strong bipartisan support. This is indeed a great day for the Congress because we are here to talk about the future. I always say to people when they come, You visit Washington, you see all these monuments to people who lived a long time ago; but when you come to the floor of the Congress, what we are here to do is to make the future better for the next generation. 
   Central to that is a strong economy for our country. We have had a bipartisan commitment to an innovation agenda, a commitment to competitiveness to keep America number one. We know that innovation begins in the classroom, and that is why the legislation on the floor today is so important. 
   For some of us of a generation when I was a student, President Kennedy talked about putting a man on the Moon. It seemed impossible at the time. 
   When he said it, when he made his announcement, he said the vows of this Nation can only be fulfilled if we are first, and therefore we intend to be first. Our leadership in science and in industry, our hopes for peace and security, our obligations to ourselves and others as well, all require us to make this effort. It was with that our country made a strong commitment to science and technology, and within 10 years a man was on the Moon and safely returned. 
   Here we are again in this new century, all these many years later, recommitting to an innovation agenda. We have to talk about how we grow our economy to create new jobs here at home for the 21st century. We certainly have a commitment to trade, and that is important to us. 
   We can only succeed in the international global economy if we are competitive and if we innovate. We cannot innovate without the investment in education, the investment in science and technology. 
   Our effort for an innovation agenda began nearly 2 years ago outside of Washington, meeting all over the country with leaders and CEOs in many fields, whether it was biotech, high-tech, the academic community, venture capital, entrepreneurs, young people and telecommunications sector people who are creating jobs for the 21st century. We held forums in Silicon Valley, in Seattle, and in Boston, in Chicago, northern New Jersey, North Carolina's Research Triangle, El Paso, Texas, to name a few. 
   Using the expertise and advice that we heard from the outside, emphasizing a focus on public/ private partnerships, emphasizing a focus on the entrepreneurial spirit that is the hallmark of our country, we adopted an innovation agenda that will help create a new generation of innovators, an educated skilled workforce in the vital areas of science, math, engineering and information technology. 
   Thank you, Chairman Gordon, for your extraordinary leadership in this area and bringing this legislation to the floor. I also want to commend Chairman George Miller for his leadership and focusing on STEM as well. 
   The agenda will help to make a sustained Federal research and development commitment that promotes private sector innovation, spur affordable access to broadband technology, achieve energy independence, strengthen our national security, protect our planet by developing emerging technologies for clean and sustainable alternatives, and provide small businesses with the tools they need to engage and encourage entrepreneurial innovation and job creation throughout our economy. 
   This is what was important to us. Again, pointing out the importance of education to all of this, I am very pleased to come to the floor to support the legislation that is on the floor today. 
   Once again, I want to thank Mr. Hall for his leadership in this area. I take special pride in the fact that this effort is bipartisan. The President has spoken on any number of occasions, in his State of the Union addresses or in other settings, about his commitment to this investment in the future. 
   Hopefully we can move these pieces of legislation along to his desk for his signature and on to better public policy to promote the United States as  number one with an innovation agenda for the future.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (RECOGNIZING THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE 65TH ANNIVERSARY OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 9066 AND SUPPORTING AND RECOGNIZING A NATIONAL DAY OF REMEMBRANCE -- (House of Representatives - February 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, to live up to the principles on which this great nation was founded, we must stand for freedom for all Americans, in wartime and in times of peace. 
   On February 19, 1942, Executive Order 9066 was signed, ushering in one of the darkest periods in our nation's history. During World War II, more than 120,000 Americans of Japanese descent were removed from their homes and placed in internment camps. Under baseless fears of Japanese Americans disloyalty, families were ripped apart and entire communities uprooted. 
   History has shown that this action, as well as restrictions on Americans of German and Italian ancestry, was not only wrong, but also indefensible. The National Day of Remembrance is an opportunity to learn from the lessons of our past as we work for a better future. I join Representatives Honda, Becerra, Wu, Scott, Abercrombie, Matsui, Bordallo, Hirono, and many of our colleagues for a National Day of Remembrance on February 19. 
   In these difficult times of war, as we face the threat of terrorism, the lessons of that dark chapter are especially relevant today. As we protect and defend the American people, we must protect and defend the Constitution and the civil liberties that define our democracy. 
   I join my colleagues, especially the Members of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, who fight for justice and equality every day, to ensure that history is never repeated again. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (RECOGNIZING THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE FOUNDING OF THE MODERN STATE OF ISRAEL -- (House of Representatives - April 22, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for his kind words. I am pleased to join Mr. Boehner and other cosponsors of this legislation, and thank Chairman Berman and Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen for their leadership in bringing this resolution to the floor, and for leading us in our strong friendship with the State of Israel. 
   I thank Mr. Berman for following so ably in the footsteps of Mr. Lantos as he follows the tradition of Chairman Lantos whose loss we feel every day. 
   Mr. Speaker, this weekend, families around the world, including my own grandchildren, gathered around the Seder table to retell the Biblical story of freedom and hope that is Passover. 
   The closing words of the Passover haggadah evoke the age-old yearning of the Jewish people to return to Zion. Today, in Congress, we mark the fulfillment of those aspirations in observing the founding of the modern State of Israel. By recognizing the 60th anniversary of Israel, we reaffirm the bonds of close friendship and cooperation between the United States and Israel. 
   Again I thank Chairman Berman and Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen for their leadership in giving us this opportunity today. I am pleased to join Republican Leader BOEHNER as lead cosponsors of this legislation, as I am pleased to join him in leading a delegation to Israel in a few weeks to be part of the 60th anniversary observance. 
   Mr. Speaker, the creation of the State of Israel, as Mr. Berman said so eloquently, stands out as one of the greatest achievements of the 20th century and as a beacon of hope to the world. President Truman's role in recognizing the new state just 11 minutes after its proclamation is a source of pride for all Americans. It is also a symbol of the strength of the friendship between our two countries. 
   I note that this congressional recognition is a little earlier than a month before Israel's independence day, but this allows us to get ready and to have a few weeks of festivities to bring in the May celebration. 
   In this body we sometimes have political differences, but today and every day we speak with one voice united with Israel. As we support Israel, we recognize that the national security of Israel is in our national interest.     
   A week ago, Noam Shalit, father of Gilad Shalit, came to my office. Gilad was captured from his army base in Israel near the Gaza border on June 25, 2006. For almost 2 years, Gilad has been held in captivity. Our thoughts are with him and his family, as well as with all of the other missing Israeli soldiers, such as Ehud Goldwasser and Eldad Regev. We will continue to work for their release from captivity. 
   Mr. Speaker, every leader from the region who comes into my office, or just other people that I find worthy of knowing about this, I show the dog tags of Eldad, Ehud and Gilad as a constant reminder in the Speaker's Office of our commitment to them and to their freedom. 
   In America's partnership with Israel, we have both given support and we have drawn strength. We share a common history, nations founded to be beacons of democracy, forged by pioneers, and fulfilled by immigrants in search of a better tomorrow. We also share a common cause, a safe and secure Israel, living in peace with her neighbors. 
   Mr. Speaker, I urge our colleagues to speak with one voice and support this resolution recognizing the 60th anniversary of the State of Israel. In doing so, we not only commend Israel, we also bring luster to this House by associating ourselves with that great State of Israel. 
   Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlelady from Florida for her generosity in allowing me, the Speaker, to speak out of turn. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CALLING ON THE GOVERNMENT OF CHINA TO END ITS CRACKDOWN IN TIBET -- (House of Representatives - April 08, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank him for his leadership on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, the ranking Republican on the committee, for their leadership in bringing this resolution to the floor. It isn't without a tear in the eye that we bring this to the floor and remember our colleague, Congressman Tom Lantos, and how important this resolution would have been to him. 
   Twenty years ago when I was a new Member of Congress, Tom invited some of us to a meeting that I will never forget. It was with His Holiness the Dalai Lama. At that time he presented to us his proposal for autonomy for Tibet. That is over 20 years ago he has been preaching autonomy, and it is on that basis that we wanted him to have the opportunity to have full negotiations with the Chinese Government. They had said if he doesn't reject the idea of independence, that cannot happen. Well, he rejected independence 20 years ago, much to the dismay of those who want independence. 
   But, in any event, Tom Lantos opened the door for many of us to meet with His Holiness the Dalai Lama. Twenty years later, in the Capitol of the United States, under Tom's leadership and of that Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen, we were able to present to His Holiness the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest honor that this body can bestow. I am proud to say that President Bush stood there side-by-side with His Holiness presenting our Congressional Gold Medal to him. No President before had been so courageous, and I appreciate and am proud that President Bush did that. 
   Following that, we talked about taking a trip to India to talk about global warming, that our Energy Independence and Global Warming Task Force, which Mr. Markey and Mr. Sensenbrenner, who spoke so eloquently earlier, were in the lead on. 
   When we planned the trip, we had accepted His Holiness' invitation to visit him in Dharamsala, without any thought that it would be at a controversial time. As fate would have it, we made our plans in December and January. When we got there in the middle of March, it was following the crackdown in Tibet of the peaceful demonstrators in Lhasa and in other parts of Tibet by the Chinese Government. It was stunning really to see the reaction of the Chinese to the simple observance of the 49th anniversary of the Dalai Lama being forced out of Tibet by the Chinese. As the monks demonstrated and protested, the Chinese government cracked down. 
   While we were there, it was interesting to hear that the Government of China was saying that His Holiness was the instigator of violence in China,  that he had the ``heart of a jackal'' and all kind of animal references. We all love our animals, but they were not appropriate to His Holiness. We all know His Holiness to be the personification of nonviolence in the world, a bridge builder for peace and human understanding, as we said in our presentation of the Congressional Gold Medal to him. 
   So we thought it must be our fate, it must be our karma, that we would be in Dharamsala at that time. As was indicated by some of our colleagues, Mr. Inslee mentioned that some monks had traveled for 5 days over Himalayas to Dharamsala to tell us about the treatment they had received. 
   Some of the people we met with, Mr. Smith, had been in prison for many years in China. One woman who was in her eighties had been in prison for over 25 years. We heard of the torture that was exacted upon them as recently as a matter of days before we were there. So the torture that you described that you heard about in your committee continues to this day, and we very tearfully received that information from the prisoners. 
   But the point is that in Tibet you are arrested and repressed for what you believe; not even for acting upon your beliefs, but for what you believe, and that is something that flies in the face of everything we stand for as a country. That is why I was so pleased that the President stood there and showed bipartisan spirit, Democrats and Republicans coming together, as Mr. Smith mentioned. We have worked on this issue for many years and in a very bipartisan way in terms of China. 
   Another place where China has influence that Mr. Smith and Mr. Wolf have been leaders has been in the Sudan. But for the Chinese's absolute insistence that they will not sanction the Sudan at the U.N., we could perhaps have an improvement in the human rights situation and the political situation in the Sudan. 
   Many of us took a trip, many Members have been there, I led a delegation there with Mr. Clyburn to Darfur a couple of years ago and we saw firsthand the genocide that was going on there. It was horrible to see. We went to several camps. In one camp, 100,000 refugees were there. We saw the little children. The tiny ones really still had some brightness in their eyes. The older ones, they had seen too much. 
   In this camp, in the evening when it would be cool, if the father went out to get firewood, he would be killed. If the mother went out, she could be raped. In any event, the children could be kidnapped. They had been displaced from their villages with compliance of the Government of Sudan.     
   All we need is strong international leadership to end that situation. China stands in the way. When we are talking about Tibet and when we are talking about the Olympics and we are talking about Tibet, we have to remember Burma as well and the house arrest also for all these many years. 
   We have to remember what is happening in Darfur. I was reading in the paper the other day as the torch was going through Paris that one of the marchers, the carriers of the torch said that what was happening with the protesters was very unpleasant. I thought, you think that's unpleasant? Maybe you should be in the sub-human conditions that the refugees are in Darfur. If you think that's unpleasant, maybe you should be in a prison in Tibet for your faith and His Holiness, the Dalai Lama. 
   You think that's unpleasant? Maybe you could still be in prison from the Tiananmen Square massacre. Some people are still in prison from that time. 
   Mr. Smith knows well the fight we had at the time because shortly after, a couple of years after Tiananmen, we were still fighting for the release of the prisoners of Tiananmen. We had about a $5 billion a year trade deficit. 
   We thought that that would give us so much leverage with the Chinese Government that surely if we threatened the most-favored nation status, as it was called then, that they would yield and release these prisoners because it meant $5 billion a year to them. 
   Well, we didn't win. We didn't prevail in that situation. 
   As I say, it was a Republican President and a Democratic President. We didn't get any better policy from either of them when it came to China. They told us that granting most-favored nation status, they changed the name to permanent normal trade relations because it sounded better, would, in fact, improve the political situation in China and improve our trade relationship with China. 
   When these people are saying it's unpleasant, I think it's unpleasant to think that a $5 billion a year trade deficit is now $5 billion a week, $5 billion a week. That is a quarter of a trillion dollars a year trade deficit with China. 
   Has it improved our trade relationship? I don't think so. Has it improved the human rights situation in China? I don't think so. 
   Somewhere along the way we lost our way. We said at the time, some of us, if you choose to ride this tiger that is China, only China will decide when you can get off. China won the Olympics. Some of us supported resolutions in opposition to that, but they won the Olympics. 
   I don't support a boycott of the Olympics. I think our athletes who have trained should be able to go there and compete. I think it should be treated as a sports event. Any time it tries to rise to the occasion of harmony, one world, one dream, a unifying factor, that is where it falls short, because the Chinese cannot on the one hand take the political upside of the credibility given to them at any welcoming ceremony and refuse to hear the other side of the political view that they are unworthy of making that claim. 
   As we speak tonight as we are gathered here in this Chamber, in my City of San Francisco human rights activists are preparing for the torch to come through our city tomorrow, a city very committed to human rights. I was very proud that yesterday they were able to display a ``One World, One Dream: Free Tibet'' banner across the Golden Gate Bridge. It's just frightening to think of how they were able to accomplish it, but they got their message across with, probably in my view, the most beautiful backdrop in the world for all the world to see. 
   Tomorrow, as the torch goes through the city, people will voice their views on it. But, still tonight, Desmond Tutu is leading a prayer vigil in San Francisco in protest of what is happening with that torch going through. 
   Probably the most insulting of all, though, is that China insists that the torch go through Tibet, that it go to Mount Everest and through Tibet on its way back to Beijing. That's the biggest insult, I think, of all. The world should not allow that to happen. What's right about that? 
   When I was in Dharamsala, I had the privilege of addressing the crowd gathered in the square. I said at the time that the situation in Tibet challenges the conscience of the world. Indeed, the situation in Darfur challenges the conscience of the world, two places where China can change, make a difference. I also said that if we, the freedom-loving people throughout the world do not stand up for human rights in China and Tibet, then we lose all moral authority to talk about it any other place in the world. 
   It is many years of activism on this subject, and lots of documentation, but, as Mr. Smith mentioned, we know so many of the people firsthand, such as Harry Wu, who had been imprisoned. Why this is important tonight is because what the Chinese did, the most excruciating form of torture that an oppressor can exact on a political prisoner is to say to him or her nobody even knows you are here. They don't even care about you anymore. Society has passed this issue by. It's no longer important. Your family is out there suffering, you are here forgotten, but the world does not remember you. 
   Well, we are here tonight to say that the world does, a continuation of the work that Mr. Smith has referenced and others have referenced tonight about our calling to the attention of the world the names, the actual names of people who have been imprisoned for their beliefs, their religious beliefs, their political beliefs. This the resolution is very simple, and when we vote on it tomorrow, I hope we have an overwhelming vote. 
   What it says to the Chinese Government, as they prepare for the Olympics in harmony, ``One World, One Dream: Free Tibet,'' is that they end the  crackdown in Tibet, that they enter into substantive dialogue directly with His Holiness the Dalai Lama, that they allow independent monitors, journalists and others into Tibet and they also allow medical personnel. As was mentioned, people who have been beaten by the Chinese cannot receive medical assistance and they need that life-saving attention. That's what we are talking about here. 
   As for the accusation that that jackal, His Holiness the Dalai Lama, the instigator of violence in Tibet, started all of this, His Holiness called for and our delegation in Dharamsala associated ourselves with his call which was for an independent outside investigation as to how that all started. If they are going to accuse him, then they must be prepared to have an investigation to prove their point or to be proven wrong. 
   When we were there, I just want to close by saying, because it was very moving for us, when we got off the airplane and we were driving to Dharamsala for miles and miles and miles and miles, and when we got to Dharamsala to the center of town, we were greeted by many Tibetans flying American flags. We take the pledge in the morning, and any time we see the flag, it is an emotional experience for us. But to see these people who have had to struggle so much for freedom pay homage to our flag was quite a remarkable thing. 
   Here is one sign, which was my particular favorite. It said, ``Thank you for everything you have done for us so far.'' But all the American flags, the Tibetans flags, and, just again, it was a forest of flags there. 
   Mr. Holt referenced the children, when we went to the children's school, thousands of adorable children, many of them separated from their families, because that's the only way they could be raised in a Tibetan culture which is now restrained. Here are these children, they drew, they had thousands of these. I brought many of them home, an American flag on one side and on the other side a Tibetan flag, ``Free Tibet, Free Tibet.'' It goes on, ``Long live His Holiness the Dalai Lama.'' 
   ``Long live the friendship between the United States and Tibet,'' a friendship that began when Franklin Roosevelt sent His Holiness, when he was a very little boy, a watch. That watch had the rising of the sun, the months of the year, the phases of the moon, and it did tell time too. It was a very special fit, a gold watch. His Holiness has said that he took that watch with him when he left Tibet, imagine, a piece of America in that flight to freedom. 
   It is our wish that under the provisions of this legislation and the voices being heard all over the world now that those negotiations will take place between the Chinese Government and His Holiness the Dalai Lama. I, like many, have asked about the opening ceremonies. You don't want to boycott the Olympics, what about the opening ceremonies? 
   I think we should, since the Chancellor of Germany, Angela Merkel, has put that on the table, it should stay there. Our President should hold back any decision about going to those opening ceremonies until he sees what progress could be made, what leverage we could use to have those negotiations take place so that before too long and while His Holiness is still in good health he can return to Tibet and, indeed, the Tibetan people in their autonomous state of Tibet can be free. 
   I am very proud of this resolution. I couldn't be prouder of all the statements that were made this evening with all the passion and interest and history that went with it. I think it is a tribute to His Holiness, and I hope the vote tomorrow will be unequivocal about that. I am certain it will. I also they think that it is a tribute to our friend, Tom Lantos, who had been so faithful to this cause. 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Smith. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (MOURNING THE PASSING OF PRESIDENT GERALD RUDOLPH FORD -- (House of Representatives - January 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and applaud him, Mr. Davis of Illinois, and the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Davis), for bringing this resolution to the floor to honor a great man, and I rise today to join them in paying tribute to the life and leadership of President Gerald Ford. 
   I would like to also recognize Mrs. Betty Ford and the wonderful children, Michael, Jack, Steven, and Susan, who with their love and support helped to make President Ford's leadership possible; but they made a contribution in their own right. 
   Betty Ford really changed the way people in America talked about their health and the challenges in their lives. Every family in America respects her, every family in America is in her debt for, again, changing how people speak about their physical and other challenges. Mrs. Ford, we all give you our condolences and our respect and admiration for your leadership as well. 
   Having also served as House minority leader, as President Ford did, I have  great respect for the fair and reliable leadership that President Ford displayed throughout his service in the House. He was effective and respected on both sides of the aisle. He recognized that however much we may disagree on political questions, we serve the people of the Nation, the great institution, the House of Representatives. 
   He later became President, and another President, Thomas Jefferson, said: ``Every difference of opinion is not a difference of principle.'' Gerald Ford knew that. Gerald Ford followed that. He assumed office during one of the greatest times of challenge for our Nation and provided the American people with the steady leadership and optimism that was his signature. 
   The outpouring of emotion and affection displayed by the American people last week and the week before reminds us that they desire the kind of leadership President Ford embodied. In this hour, we need and pray for President Ford's character, courage, and civility to affect us. He healed the country when it needed healing. This is another time, another war, and another trial of our American will, imagination, and spirit. I ask our colleagues, let us honor his memory not just in eulogy but in dialogue and trust across the aisle. 
   Once again, our condolences to the family. I hope it is a comfort to the Ford family that so many people mourn their loss and are praying for them at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EXPRESSING SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING NEED FOR ADDITIONAL RESEARCH INTO HYDROCEPHALUS -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Con. Res. 74 which has been introduced by my colleague from California, Congressman Mike Thompson, and co-sponsored by Democratic and Republican Members alike. 
   H. Con. Res. 74 encourages additional support for research into the prevention and treatment of the neurological condition hydrocephalus. It is a chronic medical condition that, like other conditions affecting a relatively small number of people, receives inadequate attention and resources, which delays research that could achieve great breakthroughs. Passage of H. Con. Res. 74 will demonstrate the support of the Congress for aggressive research to find improved methods for detecting and treating hydrocephalus not only among children, but within the increasingly large number to adults who are affected by late onset of the condition. 
   I am especially proud that the Hydrocephalus Association is headquartered in my congressional district in San Francisco, and that the couple whose pioneering efforts have encouraged and supported so many people with hydrocephalus and their families are San Franciscans--Emily and Russell Fudge, as is the Association's Executive Director, Dory Kranz. 
   Under their leadership, together with the board composed of leading physicians and researchers, parents and people with hydrocephalus, the Hydrocephalus Association has raised public awareness of this condition and the enormous impact it has on over one million Americans. Because of the medical advances and the advocacy efforts promoted by the Association, most of these children and adults are able to lead full and productive lives and make enormous contributions to our society. 
   These successes have inadvertently complicated the efforts to advance research, diagnosis and treatment. The typical surgical treatment--the insertion of a shunt to carry away excessive cerebral fluid from the brain--was developed over 50 years ago. Because shunting has alleviated many of the more grave aspects of pre-shunt hydrocephalus, many believe it represents a cure. But it does not. Shunt surgery and the frequent repairs, which are well known to those with hydrocephalus and their families, are not only serious operations, but cost a billion dollars a year, much of which might well be averted with development of advanced treatment strategies. 
   Promoting additional research through increased federal support is the goal of this resolution. Those advances will benefit not only those with hydrocephalus, but will help to reduce excessive costs in our health care system, and allow hundreds of thousands of people with hydrocephalus to live even fuller lives freed from the anxieties and costs associated with shunt failure and related complications. 
   Seven of the institutes of the National Institutes of Health--including the Office of Rare Diseases--sponsored a major national conference in September 2005 on ``Hydrocephalus: Myths, New Facts, Clear Directions'' which has encouraged aggressive action in the areas of research and treatment. Now it is time for the Congress to join the campaign to expand our understanding of the causes and modernize the treatment of hydrocephalus. I call upon my colleagues to support H. Con. Res. 74 to encourage our nation's leading medical institutions and researchers to expand their focus on achieving breakthrough research in the diagnosis and treatment of hydrocephalus. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (RECOGNIZING ANN RICHARDS' EXTRAORDINARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO TEXAS AND AMERICAN PUBLIC LIFE -- (House of Representatives - February 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Thank you very much, Congressman Davis, and thank you for bringing this opportunity to the fore for us to sing the praises of the great Governor of Texas, Ann Richards. I am proud to join you today, Mr. Davis, in honor of Ann Richards, a true pioneer and one of Texas' great daughters. 
   Ann Richards expanded the realm of what is possible for women. As she loved to say: ``A woman's place is in the dome.'' She is certainly smiling down on us today. As more women than ever rise to elective office, we owe a great debt to Ann Richards for helping to blaze the trail. 
   So important was she to the women in Congress who serve here now, as part of my swearing-in festivities, I had a tea honoring Ann Richards in which we reviewed a film of her life in which her beautiful granddaughter, Lily, made a presentation about her grandmother, from which we all drew strength and inspiration about this woman, a true, true pioneer. Ann Richards will be remembered for her devastating wit and gigantic heart, which led her to make real and lasting improvements for all Americans. 
   From health care, to education, to opening the doors of government to all, Ann Richards was one of our Nation's most fierce champions for expanding opportunity. Just as Ann was an advocate for all of America's children, she was particularly proud of her own. Ann's daughter Cecile Richards was an essential member of my team when I became leader and has since become President of Planned Parenthood of America. I know Ann was equally proud of her three children, Daniel, Clark and Ellen, and her eight grandchildren, I mentioned Lily. She was proud of all of them. 
   I hope it is a comfort to her entire family that so many people here in the Congress, indeed in the country, remember Ann with great enthusiasm and are grateful for her leadership. She has been gone a number of months now, but it is a loss that we sorely feel. It is a memory that we greatly cherish of a great woman, a leader in our country, and a person. 
   As I say to all of us in Congress or in elective office, all of us owe Ann Richards a great debt of gratitude. She is the gold standard for statesmanship, man or woman. Again, we are especially proud of the leadership she provided as a woman leader in our country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (GENERAL LEAVE -- (House of Representatives - January 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding and thank him for his leadership on behalf of insuring America's children and also commend the distinguished chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Mr. Dingell, for his leadership on this important subject. 
   Madam Speaker, I want to acknowledge your exceptional presiding over this debate. You have presided over most of the debate for SCHIP, if not all. I think you are approaching, depending on what happens in the course of this debate, 100 hours of presiding in a very dignified fashion, and I want to acknowledge that because of the importance of this issue. Thank you, Madam Speaker. 
   All year we have been talking about the subject of how we make America healthier, how we bring many more children who are eligible to be enrolled in the State Children's Health Insurance Program. We've had the debates. We've had the outside advocacy of the March of Dimes, of Easter Seals, of the AMA, of the AARP, of Families USA, the YWCA, of the Catholic Hospital Association. Almost any organization that you can name that has anything to do with the health of the American people has endorsed the legislation that we have before us. That is important to the children, to their families, to their communities, to the economic stability of their States which have to provide health insurance for these children. 
   In the last few days, we have all been working together in a bipartisan way to come up with a stimulus package. The recognition that we need a stimulus package points to the need further for this SCHIP legislation to become law. Let's make our working in a bipartisan way on the stimulus package a model for how we approach other issues as well. 
   This SCHIP package has had strong bipartisan support from the start, in the House and in the Senate. In fact, the Senate has a veto-proof majority. Senator Hatch and Senator Grassley have been major architects of this legislation, two very distinguished Republican leaders in the United States Senate.  
   The issue comes down to what is happening in America's households today. Unemployment is up; housing starts are down. The price of gasoline and food and health care is up; the stock market is down. So the indicators, some that are felt very closely and intimately by America's families and some that are felt by our economy, all point to the need for us to take a new direction. And that new direction says what can we do that is fiscally sound, that meets the needs of the children, that has bipartisan support, and, again, strengthens our country by improving the health of our people? 
   One of the things that we can do is, again, take the lead, and many children who have come here to advocate on behalf of all children in our country, whether it was through the March of Dimes or Easter Seals or any other organizations, and that is to vote to override the President's veto. Let's remove all doubt in anyone's mind that this Congress of the United States understands our responsibility to children, understands our responsibility to the future. We've had the debate. We know the facts. We know the figures. It's just a decision that people have to make about what is inside of them about what their priorities are. And I hope the message that would lead this Congress is the message that we care about children and we care enough about them that we will vote to override this veto. 
   I thank the gentlemen again for their leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (FAREWELL REMARKS OF THE HONORABLE DENNIS J. HASTERT, MEMBER OF CONGRESS -- (House of Representatives - November 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. 
   Thank you, my colleagues. I accept that recognition as a recognition of the role of Speaker of the House, a role that DENNIS HASTERT performed with great distinction, and I rise to salute his leadership, Mr. Speaker. 
   My colleagues, you have heard me say on a number of occasions in relationship to DENNIS HASTERT that in the Congress, as Members of Congress, we hold the title ``Honorable'' by virtue of our office that we hold. But in the case of DENNIS HASTERT, he holds the title of ``Honorable'' not just for the office he holds, but by virtue of his character, his leadership, and his contributions to our country. 
   About a year and a half ago in June we all observed a celebration for Speaker DENNIS HASTERT when he became the longest-serving Republican Speaker of the House. 
   Long may his record stand. 
   That milestone was testament to the great respect he commanded not only in the Republican Conference but in this Congress as a whole and in our country. Thank you, DENNIS HASTERT, for your record of achievement. 
   I want to acknowledge someone who had a role that I once had, minority leader, who is with us today and honors us with his presence and again is a tribute to the leadership of DENNIS HASTERT, Minority Leader Bob Michel. 
   Many of you know but I think it always bears repeating that DENNIS HASTERT has long had a commitment to our country, first as a teacher: for 16 years, a teacher of our children, and a coach, as he reminds us. 
   He then went on to the State legislature in Illinois where he served for 6 years. And then in 1986 he came to the Congress of the United States where he has served with great distinction and with many accomplishments, and he enumerated some earlier. 
   In 1999, this Congress elected him the Speaker of the House. The Speaker of the House. He brought to that office the values of the heartland of America and the wishes and the voice for the people of Illinois' 14th Congressional District, and we have all benefited from that. 
   Although we have from time to time on occasion differed on issues, I remember once, we all agree on the importance of public service, the kind of public service that has been the hallmark of Speaker Hastert's career, whether in the classroom or in the Congress of the United States. 
   Today I want to join my friend, DENNIS, in saluting Jean for sharing DENNIS with us for all these years and for her role as a teammate to him and his contributions to our country. And thanks to Joshua and Ethan and to your entire family. 
   Mr. Speaker, and by that Mr. Speaker I am speaking to Speaker DENNIS HASTERT, I know I speak for everyone in this House when I thank you for your service, for many things, which I could enumerate, but I want to mention one in particular which I have mentioned to this House before. 
   We all were part of history when Rosa Parks became the first African American woman to lie in state under the Capitol dome. It was a great day for Congress and for our country. It simply would not have happened without the leadership of Speaker DENNIS HASTERT. 
   As you can imagine, Mr. Speaker, it is always a pleasure for me to say I know I speak for every Member of this House, but I know I do when I say thank you for your leadership, congratulations on a great career. I know great things are yet to come. 
   Best wishes to you and your family. Godspeed in your future. God truly  blessed America with your service to our country. 
   Thank you, Mr. Speaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (RESTORE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - November 15, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, as one who has long served on the Intelligence Committee, I understand full well the threats to our national security. I understand full well the need for us to have legislation that strikes the proper balance between liberty and security. I think this legislation does just that. And I commend Chairman Conyers, chairman of the Judiciary Committee; and the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, Chairman Reyes, for their important work and their leadership in presenting this legislation to the floor for consideration. 
   The bill is important and accomplishes the goal of striking the balance between security and liberty in the following ways: it defends Americans against terrorism and other threats; it protects Americans' civil liberties; and it restores checks and balances. 
   The bill protects Americans by providing the Director of National Intelligence with the flexibility he has requested of Congress to conduct electronic surveillance of persons outside the United States. No warrants are required whenever foreign-to-foreign communications are captured regardless of the point of collection or anywhere in the world. 
   It protects our civil liberties in a number of ways. The DNI has agreed that when Americans are targeted for surveillance, a warrant is required. We have now included certain criteria that the government must take into account in considering whether a warrant is required. This will help prevent inappropriate warrantless surveillance and ``reverse targeting'' of Americans under the guise of foreign intelligence. 
   The bill restores checks and balances. This is very, very important because it, again, is part of our oath of office to protect the Constitution of the United States. The bill rejects groundless claims of ``inherent executive authority.'' 
   There are those who claim that the President has inherent authority from the Constitution to do whatever he wishes. Long ago our Founders rejected that concept in founding our country. We must do that as well and continue to make that clear. 
   The legislation also makes clear that FISA is the exclusive means for conducting electronic surveillance to gather foreign intelligence. The government must seek approval from a FISA Court. So we are talking about the Congress of the United States passing legislation, as it did in the late seventies, passing this legislation today which is in light of the new technologies and new reality in the world, and recognizing the authority of the third branch of government: the courts. 
   This legislation includes extensive reporting to Congress with respect to the interception and dissemination of communications among Americans and from Americans. This is very important because we want to minimize the use of that information and keep it for the purpose for which it is collected. 
   Most significantly, the bill does not provide immunity to telecommunications companies that participated in the President's warrantless surveillance program. We cannot even consider providing immunity unless we know exactly what we are providing immunity from. And even then, and even then, we have to proceed with great caution. 
   It is important to note that the bill sunsets on December 31, 2009, the date the PATRIOT Act sunsets, so the next administration and the next Congress can review and reassess the program. 
   This legislation is supported by organizations dedicated to protecting our national security and protecting our civil liberties, including the Center for National Security Studies, the Center for Democracy and Technology, and many other groups that work to protect privacy rights. The bill protects both national security and civil liberties, reaffirms our constitutional system of checks and balances, and deserves the support of this House. 
   Mr. Speaker, all of us want our President to have the best possible intelligence, our President and our policymakers, so they can do the best possible job to protect the American people. But no President, Democrat or Republican, should have the authority, to have inherent authority, to collect on Americans without doing so under the law. This legislation establishes that principle; and it establishes it in a very focused way in keeping with the need for flexibility for the Director of National Intelligence, in keeping with honoring our oath of office to the Constitution. I urge our colleagues to support this important legislation. 
   I, for one, am very, very proud of the work of Mr. Conyers and Mr. Reyes and thank them for their leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EXPRESSING SORROW OF THE HOUSE AT THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE JUANITA MILLENDER-MCDONALD, MEMBER OF CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA -- (House of Representatives - April 23, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank our dear friend, Congresswoman Watson, for bringing us together around this very sad and necessary resolution today. 
   On behalf of all Members of Congress, I rise to pay tribute to Chairwoman JUANITA MILLENDER-MCDONALD, who passed away Saturday night. I offer deepest sympathy to her family, who loved her so dearly, her husband James McDonald, Jr., her five children and her five grandchildren. 
   As the first African American to chair a committee in Congress, JUANITA MILLENDER-MCDONALD was a trailblazer, always advocating for the full  participation of all Americans in the success and prosperity of our country. She was a strong defender of the right of every eligible voter to have full access to the polls and a tireless proponent of fair elections that ensured that every vote would be counted. 
   As chair of the House Administration Committee, Chairwoman Millender-McDonald's deep commitment to diversity was manifested in her actions when hiring and contracting within the House of Representatives. She enjoyed her role as the ``Mayor of Capitol Hill,'' and was known for asking tourists in elevators, ``Are you finding everything okay,'' and listening closely to their response. 
   After her family, the people of California's 37th District were always first and foremost in Chairwoman Millender-McDonald's mind and her work here in Congress. She saw it as a priority to make sure they had every opportunity. She worked to strengthen the economy and jobs there, and she saw it as a priority to secure the two ports adjacent to her district. 
   Chairwoman Millender-McDonald was an advocate for justice around the world. She spoke out forcefully against the genocide in Darfur, and was a powerful advocate for the rights of women everywhere. As a former cochairwoman of the Congressional Caucus for Women's Issues, she worked for gender equity here at home and throughout the world. 
   The loss of Chairwoman JUANITA MILLENDER-MCDONALD is a personal one for many of us here. She was always optimistic and determined to make a difference. The dignity with which she faced her illness was an indication of the determination with which she always served the people of our country. 
   We have all lost an effective leader and spokesperson, and many of us have lost a dear friend. When we look around this Chamber, it is almost impossible to imagine it without JUANITA here fighting the fight, and doing so looking magnificent. The dignity, the grace, the beauty, the thoughtfulness that she brought to the tasks at hand were a model for others. Young people would come to the Capitol and observe her in action and learn from her. 
   We also learned from her how to have dignity at the end of life. Many of us knew that she had had bouts with illness, but we really didn't know how serious it was and how close she was to, as she said, her daughter told me, going home. Valerie said to me last night, ``She said I want to make all of these arrangements so that I can go home.'' 
   I hope it is a comfort to Chairwoman JUANITA MILLENDER-MCDONALD's family and friends that so many people mourn their loss and are praying for them at this sad time. Many of us will travel to California to say good-bye to JUANITA, if I may speak to her in that familiar way. It has been an honor to call her colleague, I know we all agree on that, and for many of us it was a privilege also to call her friend. 
   Good-bye, my friend. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2009 -- (House of Representatives - March 13, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
   May I begin by thanking the gentleman from South Carolina, Mr. Spratt, the chairman of the Budget Committee, for his masterly work in bringing this budget before us. It is fiscally sound. It is a responsible blueprint to build our economy, moving us forward and strengthening our national security. The Democratic budget, which is the budget for our country, puts the future first. It is about future generations, and it moves us to surplus by 2012. 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the fiscal soundness of this budget. 
   While being fiscally sound, the budget is also a plan again to get our country moving. It is a budget for the future by putting family budgets first, helping make affordable everything from energy to groceries to college education, helping families avoid foreclosures, and lowering, lowering, taxes. It provides for us to have middle-income tax cuts. This is about America's families and their economic security. 
   It invests in the future by investing in renewable energy to make America more energy independent and secure and to create green jobs. It is a blueprint for a green revolution in our country. 
   It creates a new generation of innovators by investing in math, science, engineering and technology, to keep good-paying jobs here in America. In total, we provide $7.1 billion more than last year for education and job training. 
   It rebuilds America's crumbling infrastructure, which again is an engine of job creation, and makes health care more affordable for families and veterans. VA health care will receive a $3.6 billion increase to care for the men and women who have defended America. 
   I read this list of provisions in the bill to show that this budget is really a statement of our values. It shows to the American people that we indeed care about them and the budget that we write is relevant to their lives. These are priorities that leading economic experts have said will put our Nation on solid economic footing. 
   Our budget is also a plan for a stronger America that begins to restore military readiness and better protect Americans against terrorism. Many of you know that the distinguished chairman of the Budget Committee is also the second-highest ranking Democrat on the Armed Services Committee, so he brings to this budget process a full knowledge of our national security needs, a full commitment to our military and their families, and dedication to our veterans which has been unsurpassed. 
   In this bill in terms of national security, ours is a plan to make Americans safer and stands in stark contrast to the President's priorities in Iraq. That misguided war has badly strained our military, distracted us from the fight against terrorism, and damaged our reputation in the world. In fact, the funds committed to that war, some say $3 trillion, huge amounts of money, not only are an opportunity cost for investments here at home in our own education and reconstruction and military readiness, but the deep debt that we are incurring because of the war in Iraq is damaging to our economy. We cannot continue to borrow to pay for the war in Iraq and not see it have an impact on our economy, and that is in addition to the rising cost of oil prices that are related to the war in Iraq as well.  
   We begin in our national security to reestablish America's strength by rebuilding our military, investing in equipment and training that our military requires, and making caring for our troops, veterans, and military families a top priority. 
   Our plan stands in stark contrast to the President's priorities and the Republican budget, which would undermine health care for seniors and working families by cutting Medicare and Medicaid over half a trillion dollars over the next 10 years and charge veterans and military retirees more than $18 billion in new fees over 5 years. Our budget does not do that. The Republican budget puts the burden of additional fees on our veterans. 
   The Republican budget eliminates essential funding for State and local law enforcement and cuts EPA grants that would help protect our planet and our health.     
   On inauguration day 2009, President Bush will move out of the White House. But, unfortunately, his fiscal legacy will remain unless we can reverse that. 
   The Bush administration turned a projected $5.6 trillion surplus, I heard our distinguished majority leader talking about this earlier, into a $3.2 trillion deficit. That is historic, that is a historic fiscal turnaround of epic proportions, nearly a $10 trillion swing in fiscal soundness. The President leaves a record of breathtaking fiscal recklessness. 
   Budgets are more than just accounting documents. Budgets, our Federal budget, I believe, should be a statement of our national values. What we believe in our Nation should be reflected in the allocation of our resources, in our budget. 
   With this budget, the New Direction Congress and under the leadership of Chairman Spratt is saying that we value families and their economic future, we will fight to insure their hard work is rewarded, and that the American Dream is renewed. 
   With this statement of our values, we are saying that we do value our valiant men and women in uniform. We will insist that they receive the tools and training they need to perform their mission, and that when they return home, they will come to high quality health care. 
   And we were saying in this statement that we value our children. We will invest in their education, their health care, and their future, and do this without leaving them a legacy of debt. 
   My colleagues, we must make clear that the American values are the values of this House. We should have a statement of the values of the American people in the budget that we put forth, and we do today, to invest in our children's health and education and strengthening families, to provide for the national security of our country by rebuilding our military and respecting our responsibility to our veterans, by investing in the future and innovation and new energy technologies and the education that goes with it. We must make clear that this is a budget plan for a stronger America, for stronger families, for a stronger economy, and a stronger military. 
   I urge my colleagues to support with great pride the budget put forth by Mr. Spratt in the Budget Committee this evening. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 2419, FOOD, CONSERVATION, AND ENERGY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - May 14, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I want  to congratulate the distinguished chairman of our Agriculture Committee for his important work in bringing this legislation to the floor today. I also want to commend Mr. Goodlatte for his leadership as well, so we can come to the floor with bipartisan legislation that will help lower food prices, invest in energy independence, support conservation, and recognize the importance of specialty crops. 
   I want to commend Mr. Kind also for his leadership. It is very important for us to reform the farm subsidy programs in our country. I think where we have a disagreement is I think this bill is a good first step in that direction. I don't think we will ever see another bill that will look this way. And when we come to the place where our situation is addressed again in a bipartisan way on the next farm bill, I think your work will be repaid. But I hope, Mr. Kind, that you take some satisfaction in the fact that from your leadership and advocacy, this farm bill is moving in the right direction. I too am not satisfied that it does enough in terms of farm subsidies, but I want to talk about what it does do. 
   And what it does do is much better because of the leadership of Mr. Goodlatte, our distinguished chairman Mr. Peterson, the work of the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee who just did a phenomenal job. Chairman Rangel did a phenomenal job on his aspect of the bill. And Mr. Pomeroy, who serves on both the Ways and Means Committee and the Agriculture Committee, was a wonderful bridge in terms of these initiatives. I also commend Congresswoman Herseth Sandlin for her leadership, and all of our colleagues who are here today, including Mr. Holden who is number two on the Ag Committee. All across America, we are proud of the work that has been done. 
   In California, we are proud of the work of Dennis Cardoza, a member of the Ag Committee, representing some new ideas about fresh fruits and vegetables and how they should be part of this initiative. We on the coast, to my colleague Mr. Scott, we wanted to see some initiatives about fresh fruits and vegetables and specialty crops, and they are contained in here. And I commend Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro for her incredible work on the nutrition piece of this. 
   As part of the Agriculture Committee, Mr. Baca was a leader in terms of the nutrition piece, and Congresswoman DeLauro as Chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture was an important voice and strong leader and advocate for increasing the nutrition initiatives in this legislation. If there was one reason for Members to vote for this bill, it would be to support the nutrition piece of it, but there are other reasons as well. 
   I talked about how it could lower grocery prices. Time magazine recently had this on its Web site, four ways the farm bill could lower grocery bills. First with the disaster relief, a $3.8 billion program for farmers hit by drought and flooding could speed up compensation, allowing them to bring crops to market faster. 
   Cuts in ethanol subsidies. Demand for corn-based ethanol has increased corn prices. This bill cuts the producers' tax credit and creates a subsidy for more efficient cellulosic ethanol made from stalks, grass, and wood rather than from corn. 
   Food stamps. Payments to those on assistance will be more responsive to inflation. The minimum monthly benefit will increase from $10, where it has been since 1977, and may I say, probably since they put this out. 
   The final bill has strong support for the food pantries, food banks throughout America. Now if you go to a food bank, you will see a sign that says you can only come one time a month to pick up food because the shelves are bare in those food pantries. This bill will go a long way to filling those shelves. So for emergency food assistance, this program would supply food banks and pantries and could add up to $100 million more in funding per year as more Americans affected by the sluggish economy visit its distribution centers. 
   Some people in our country are concerned as our economy is in a downturn, they are concerned about losing their jobs. Many people are concerned about losing their homes; but almost everyone is concerned about losing his or her living standard. The purchasing power of middle-income families has been reduced while costs have gone up for necessities like gasoline and groceries and health care and education. The issue of gasoline and groceries are addressed somewhat, one more than the other, in this legislation. 
   In terms of energy, high energy costs are a contributing factor to our high food prices, which is why the Food and Energy Security Act, which this is, will help reduce gas prices and ensure that America's family farmers fuel America's energy independence. Think of this. We are talking about energy independence, and with this legislation we take a step for America's farmers to fuel America's energy independence, following up on the work we did last year in the energy bill. 
   It makes a $1 billion investment in energy independence. In addition to that, it takes a critical step in transitioning from biofuels, from corn as I mentioned, and creates a new tax credit that will provide a $400 million investment in cellulosic biofuels. These efforts will ensure that we send our energy dollars to the Midwest instead of to the Middle East. 
   In terms of conservation, the bill recognizes that those who work the land, America's farmers and ranchers, are great stewards of the land. The farm bill improves access to and funding for initiatives that take environmentally sensitive lands out of production. It encourages environmentally friendly practices on working lands, and it invests $5.4 billion to preserve farm and ranchland, improve our air quality, our water quality, and enhance soil conservation and wildlife habitats on working lands. 
   Others have mentioned the issue of specialty crops. For the first time, the farm bill makes an historic investment in specialty crops, especially important to my State of California, and as I have said, those of us living on the coast as well as in the rest of America. It provides $1.3 billion in mandatory spending. This investment was made possible by the leadership of Congressman Dennis Cardoza of California who has worked to ensure that the producers who account for more than half of all crop value in the United States are now represented in our farm policy. Producers who provide one-half of all crop value in the United States are now represented in our farm bill. 
   Specifically this bill invested $365 million in specialty crop block grants, $230 million to create a new dedicated research program for specialty crops, $377 million to create a new initiative for early detection prevention and eradication of emerging pest and disease. I know that Mr. Thompson of California has a special interest in this aspect of the legislation. 
   The bill takes a critical step toward reforming farm programs, not enough I agree, Mr. Kind, by eliminating payments to the ultra-rich and closing loopholes that for decades have allowed some to evade farm-payment limits. This is the most significant reform in farm policy in more than 30 years. This Food and Energy Security Act will ensure that future farm bills will never again look like this. 
   Thanks to the efforts of Chairman Peterson and many others who have made this historic investment in energy independence and nutrition assistance, this bill's effects will also be felt far from farm country. As George Washington our first President whom we visit every day when we come to the Chamber said, ``I know of no pursuit in which more real and important services can be rendered to any country than by improving its agriculture.'' Well, we were an agrarian society then, but there is still a great deal of truth in that statement today. 
   With this legislation we will help families facing high food prices; fuel our Nation's energy needs with American-made, renewable energy; and be better stewards of the land and protect our environment. In addition to all of that, we will have fresh snacks, fresh fruit and vegetable snacks for our children in the schools. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this new direction in American farm policy. I urge an ``aye'' vote. Again, I salute Mr. Peterson and Mr. Goodlatte for their leadership. It is wonderful for us to have this bipartisanship on the floor today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (JUBILEE ACT FOR RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND EXPANDED DEBT CANCELLATION OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 16, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I thank him for his kind words of recognition to the Pelosi amendment. And I thank him for his tremendous leadership on debt forgiveness, not only now, but for a number of years. 
   I remember watching the master at work to see Mr. Frank work with the then Clinton administration in the year 2000 when we were trying to get the millennium debt forgiveness. He, along with Congresswoman MAXINE WATERS, have really made a tremendous difference in all this. And they have talked about some of the differences made in the countries, Congresswoman Waters did earlier. 
   God bless us in this House to be able to serve with Congressman Bachus. He has just been such a wonderful leader in the House; his value-based policies, sensitive to the needs of people in the world, and how that relates to the security of our country, and how this is important from the standpoint of security and compassion, but it makes good, practical economic sense as well. You're a wonderful leader in this regard, and it is an honor to call you colleague, SPENCER BACHUS, distinguished ranking member of the committee. 
   This has been a bipartisan initiative from the start. I appreciate the letter that was sent out by Chairman Waters and Spencer Bachus, Barney Frank, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Judy Biggert, a senior member of the Financial Services Committee, as well as Carolyn Maloney from that committee, advocating for this Jubilee Act to be passed today and spelling out exactly what it does as Mr. Bachus did so very clearly just a moment ago. And so with all the recognition to those on the committee and those who have worked on this issue, thank you for bringing us to this moment on this day. 
   And I was very pleased and accept Congresswoman Waters' acknowledgment of our insisting that it be brought up today because today is the day we welcomed the Holy Father, Pope Benedict, to Washington, D.C. Many of us have just returned from the White House, where we were very proud of the welcoming ceremony presided over by President Bush and Mrs. Bush to welcome Pope Benedict and to be stirred by both of their words, the words of our President and also of the Holy Father. 
   In his remarks, the Holy Father talked about truth and justice and freedom. He talked about respecting the dignity and worth of every person, regarding each other as brothers and sisters, all God's children. He made a beautiful and inspiring speech. And really his speech was reflected in the remarks that Spencer Bachus made here in that same regard of what our responsibilities are to our brothers and sisters. 
   Today is the Holy Father's birthday. And as the President said, he is spending his birthday with friends. And in friendship, we bring this Jubilee Act to the floor today. 
   This is not the first resolution to welcome His Holiness to America. Last week, we all voted in strong support in a bipartisan way for Congressman McCotter's resolution of welcome to the Holy Father. Yesterday, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren had legislation on the floor relating to religious workers' visas and their ability to work in the United States, which is an issue of importance to His Holiness. And now today, this very important resolution. 
   The former Holy Father, Pope Paul II, said, ``If you want peace, work for justice.'' There has always been a connection here. With this debt forgiveness, it enables countries to do many more things to promote justice in their countries, whether it's the eradication of disease, the alleviation of poverty, eliminating some of the factors that contribute to the fury of despair that leads to violence that makes the world less safe. 
   Again, this was a high priority, this debt forgiveness, for John Paul II when he was Pope, and he led the Cardinals in America Conference of Bishops to advocate for this. But it has not just been a Catholic initiative, it has been an interfaith initiative in the country, in the world, and certainly in this Congress. 
   So it's very exciting, on this Holy Father's birthday, as we welcome him to America, we do so in a way, as Mr. Bachus said, that just gives the authority to negotiate for these improvements in the forgiveness of debt so that we can, again, do what is right for respecting the spark of divinity that exists in every person in the world, that we can try to bring some justice to it, we, who have so much, for those who are also God's children need our help, and give them hope. 
   People say to me, where is hope? I say, hope; it's right where it's always been. Hope sits right there comfortably between faith and charity. We are people of faith who believe in the goodness of people. And we have faith that the charity that that will evoke or bring forth will help honor the hope that people have in the world. 
   So this is a great occasion, again, to welcome His Holiness, to stand up for all the people in the world, and to do what he called upon us to do this morning, he called upon us, he said, ``we must have the courage.'' 
   Today, I hope that we have a unanimous bipartisan show of courage to do what is right. Again, I thank Mr. Frank, Mr. Bachus and Congresswoman Waters for their relentlessness on this issue and the opportunity that they give us to give hope today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EULOGY HONORING FATHER ROBERT DRINAN -- (House of Representatives - February 05, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, a little over a week ago our country suffered a great loss with the passing of Father Robert Drinan. He was a great man. He was a great humanitarian. He was a priest and he was a Member of Congress. 
   When asked to talk about Father Drinan, it is impossible not to speak in the superlative in every case. And also the words that I would like to use are to quote a great man, Father Drinan himself. 
   At his funeral, which I had the privilege to eulogize Father Drinan, I said that when Saint Francis of Assisi, who is the patron saint of my City of San Francisco, when St. Francis of Assisi was asked what a person had to do to lead a good and virtual life, he said, Saint Francis did, ``Preach the gospel. Sometimes use words.'' 
   Father Robert Drinan preached the gospel, sometimes from the pulpit, sometimes from the floor of this House for 10 years as a Member of Congress, and sometimes from the classroom at the Georgetown University School of Law. But he always preached the gospel through the power of his example. 
   Father Drinan lived and legislated according to an expansive view of the gospel, believing that it had something to teach us about the whole range of public policy, from war and peace to poverty and justice, to how we treat our children and our parents. It was because of his faith that he was one of our great champions for human rights. He believed that there was a spark of divinity in every person, and he acted upon that belief. But he did so selflessly. 
   When the Soviet dissident Anatoly Sharansky was freed after 8 years in a Siberian labor camp, it was because of years of advocacy by many. Yet, at a reception welcoming him to the United States that was held in this Capitol, Sharansky, surrounded by supporters and admirers, looked to the back so he could find and thank the man who was his major champion, Father Drinan. That was Father Drinan, eager to help, slow to accept credit. 
   I was particularly honored that earlier, it was the beginning of January actually, Father Drinan celebrated a mass at my alma matter, Trinity College, before I was sworn in as Speaker. He said that mass in honor of the children of Darfur and Katrina. And he prayed there that ``the needs of every child are the needs of Jesus Christ himself.'' Those were Father Drinan's words. 
   He challenged us by saying, ``Imagine what the world would think of the United States if the health and welfare of children everywhere became the top objective of America's foreign policy! It could happen, and it could happen soon, he said, if enough people cared.''  
   He continued, ``Let us reexamine our convictions, our commitments and our courage.'' He emphasized courage. ``Our convictions and our commitments are clear and certain to us. But do we have the courage to carry them out,'' he asked? ``God has great hopes for what this great Nation will do in the near future. We are here to ask for the courage to carry out God's hopes and aspirations.'' 
   He inspired us with those words, and as he led us in prayer that day, Father Drinan said, ``We learn things in prayer that we otherwise would never know.'' 
   That day in church at his funeral, and since then, we are praying for the courage of Father Drinan. That may have been Father Drinan's last sermon from the pulpit, but afterwards, he sent me a letter asking that I place that sermon in the Congressional Record. And I commend to all of you his call for ``peaceful revolution'' to all who read our Record. He quoted John F. Kennedy, who said that we could make that possible with our actions. 
   These words join the many courageous words Father Drinan said on this House floor. He came to Congress to oppose the war in Vietnam. They join his powerful words on the day, last May, when Congress had the privilege of honoring him with the Congressional Distinguished Service Award. He received that award, along with our former Ambassador to the Vatican and our former colleague in this House, Ambassador and Congresswoman Lindy Boggs. 
   In his service, it was repeated during the communion service, ``Where there is charity there is Christ. Where there is charity there is God.'' Ubi caritas Deus ibi est. And on that day, in the Capitol, when we honored the two of them, charity was present and so was God's goodwill. 
   They also, Father Drinan's words that we have submitted to the Congressional Record, join the words he shared with his students. He was a priest, he was a politician, he was an American patriot who loved our Constitution and fought for our civil liberties, and he loved his students as a teacher. 
   When he left here because Pope John Paul II, when he became Pope said he had to choose between being a priest and being a Member of Congress, he said, ``I am a priest forever,'' and he left the Congress. 
   His successor, I know, is a source of great hope to the people in his district. Congressman BARNEY FRANK will be leading the special order in honor of Father Drinan shortly. 
   But as a teacher, as I say, he loved his students, his law students. And just before graduation of one class, Bob Hickmont told me this, who was one of his students, Father Drinan offered advice to a group of Georgetown law students. He said, ``As I look out at all of you, with your new and expensive law school educations, I would urge you to go forth into society not as mere legal tradesmen, but as moral architects. Design, create and build a better and more equitable society and use your skills to help those who are otherwise not being served.'' 
   Father Drinan, this statement and others of your statement are entered into the Congressional Record. Again, those words, with those of your 10 years in Congress, will serve as an inspiration for all who follow the proceedings of Congress and all who ever knew you. 
   Again, to his family, the Drinan family, to Helen and all of the family, his sister-in-law, Helen, I hope it is a comfort to them that so many people mourn their loss and are praying for them at this sad time. And I extend my deepest sympathy to his family. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 24, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding, the distinguished chairman of the Appropriations Committee. 
   Thank you, Mr. Obey, for your brilliance in bringing the legislation to the floor that we have today so we can express ourselves on the direction of this war, and at the same time, we have the opportunity to meet the emergency needs of the people of America, the Hurricane Katrina survivors, our farmers suffering from natural disasters, children without health insurance, our veterans. Thank you for the strong commitment you and Mr. Murtha and others have made to military health, to veterans health and to BRAC. After 10 years of indifference, we are raising the minimum wage for millions of our hardest-working Americans. And with the passage of the provisions in the first piece of this bill, the first amendment, we strengthen our country and address the health and well-being of millions of Americans who have been ignored again for too long. The new direction of Congress is keeping its promise to them. 
   Mr. Speaker, we have two amendments before us, and I just spoke about one of them. The other resolution, the other amendment about the war, the President's request plus the Warner resolution, is really an inkblot. We are all familiar with the Rorschach test; you look at it and you see what you see. Some will see one thing; some will see others. Some will see an opportunity, for the first time, for the Republicans to say that accountability is needed on the part of the President of the United States and on the part of the government of Iraq. And so there are these benchmarks. But these benchmarks by no means meet the obligation that we have to our men and women in uniform if they can be as easily waived as they can be in this resolution. 
   The resolution that the Republicans put forth, I am really glad that they finally admitted that there is a need for accountability. But what they haven't done is met that need with something appropriate. This is like a fig leaf. This is a token. This is a small step forward. Instead, we should have a giant step forward into a new direction. So when I look at this inkblot, I see something that does not have adequate guidelines and timetables; something that does not have adequate consequences; and something that does not have my support. Democrats are proposing something much better. 
   Instead of a missed opportunity, we had hoped that the President would have accepted our proposals, which we sent to him over and over again, over and over again, meeting his request, and even doing more for our troops, for our veterans, and for strengthening our  military in ways beyond the President's request. 
   We now have our troops engaged in a civil war. There are reports that the Department of Defense has declared what is happening in Iraq to be a civil war. The American people do not think that it is necessary for us to be refereeing a civil war in Iraq. They want our focus to be on fighting terrorism, retraining the Iraqis, protecting our diplomats and our forces there, and that is exactly what Democrats have proposed. Instead, we have a situation where, in refereeing and engaging in combat in the civil war in Iraq, as the President has us doing there, we have lost thousands of Americans. The number is hard to measure, but everyone agrees, easily over 100,000 Iraqis. The cost to our reputation and our military readiness is incalculable, but it is huge. 
   We think there should be a new direction. We think what we should be talking about here today is a different vision for stability in the Middle East and how our role in Iraq contributes to that. The generals, including General Odierno, recently stated that any strategy for success in Iraq must begin with the redeployment of our troops out of Iraq. That is a general, a retired general, and his voice is echoed by other generals as well. That, again, is what we are proposing, a change of mission, a redeployment for a different purpose, fighting terrorism, which is the threat to our national security. 
   The focus on Afghanistan must be reemphasized as that situation becomes more tenuous. 
   If we went down the path that General Odierno suggests and which Democrats have proposed over and over again, we would have a drastically reduced need for American troops in Iraq. Our troops have performed their duties excellently, excellently. Every opportunity we get, we must honor them for their patriotism, their courage and the sacrifices they and their families are willing to make. Time and again, we do this. And as we go into Memorial Day Weekend, we do it again. And we convey our condolences to those who have lost a family member in Iraq, in Afghanistan or any of the other wars we have been engaged in. 
   And we have honored our veterans not just with words but with actions. In the last couple of weeks, under the leadership of Chairman IKE SKELTON, Democrats put forth our Department of Defense Authorization bill. And in that bill, it was dedicated to troop readiness, with training and equipping our troops so that we don't send them into harm's way at a disadvantage. 
   Mr. Skelton's bill also calls for a 3.5 percent raise in military pay and a $40 survivor benefit to survivors of those who were lost in battle. Do you know what the President said about that in his statement of administrative policy? That that increase was unnecessary. 
   While yesterday, we had representatives of the veterans' organizations, especially the survivors, telling us that a $40 increase doesn't nearly go far enough to be commensurate with the sacrifice. We could never match the sacrifice, but we should at least make a respectable attempt at it. And for the White House to say a $40-per-month increase for survivors of those who gave their life in battle is unnecessary, unnecessary to whom? So if you want to talk about supporting the troops, how about supporting the troops, our veterans and their families? 
   Around the same time, Chairman Spratt brought to the floor the Democratic budget. This budget has a $6.7 billion increase for our veterans; $6.7 billion more than the previous budget; historic in its increase, making veterans a priority, an investment in those who sacrifice so much for us, an investment in honoring our commitment to our veterans. And just this week, Chairman CHET EDWARDS of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs put forth the largest increase in the VA in the history of the Veterans' Administration, 77 years. This is to make up for some promises not kept, but it is also to say, in our spending priorities, even within the context of PAYGO, no new deficit spending, no increases in the deficit; we put veterans at the top of the list and our military at the top of our list. 
   This isn't about whether we support our troops. Of course, we support our troops. We all demonstrated that over and over again.     
   But it is about opposing this war. 
   This is not the end of the debate. We have to be here to bring this bill to the floor so we can go forward. But this debate will go on. There will be legislation on the floor in the next several months to change the mission once again from combat to fighting terrorism, training and diplomatic and force protection. Again, that would require a greatly reduced U.S. force in Iraq, and coalition force as well. 
   We will have legislation to repeal the President's authority for the war in Iraq, to repeal the authority that the President has for the war in Iraq. We will have that vote. 
   We will have votes on Mr. Murtha's defense appropriations bills: one of them the regular order defense appropriation bill; another one, the supplemental that has been requested by the administration. 
   Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor today sad that the opportunity we have has been missed. There is a recognition that we need accountability, because the American people are demanding it. At least 70 percent of the American people say we have to have accountability. So instead of putting accountability into the bill, we make a gesture at it. We could have taken a giant step in a new direction. Instead, we are taking a baby step. But, as I said, this is not the end of the debate. 
   As we think about all of this, I would like to recall the words of a philosopher. Hannah Arendt once observed that nations are driven by the endless flywheel of violence, believing that one last, one final gesture will bring peace. But each time they sow the seeds for more violence. 
   That is what President Bush is doing in Iraq. That has been the deeply flawed policy of President Bush. 
   Again, Democrats are proposing a new direction. I urge my colleagues as we go forward, however you see the inkblot, however you decide your vote, to join in listening to the American people in the coming days, weeks and months, and bring this war to an end.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (AUTHORIZING ADDITIONAL FUNDS FOR EMERGENCY REPAIRS AND RECONSTRUCTION OF INTERSTATE I-35 BRIDGE IN MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA -- (House of Representatives - August 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
   I thank you, Mr. Oberstar, you and Mr. Mica, for your leadership in bringing this important legislation to the floor in such an expeditious manner so we can remove all doubt in anyone's mind in Minnesota that we are there for them. 
   A disaster of this kind, I know, coming from California where we have had our earthquakes and others coming from places that had been struck by one disaster or another, that people wonder if the compact between themselves and the government is real, and today you are telling them that it is so. We can extend all of the sympathy in our hearts to the people who have lost their loved ones or who have been injured or have just been struck by the tragedy in such an extraordinary way, but we also have to not only extend compassion but present assistance. And for that I want to thank you Mr. Oberstar, and Mr. Walz, Congresswoman McCollum, Mr. Ellison. My sympathy to you and your constituents for all that you are suffering, Mr. Peterson, as well from the State of Minnesota and our Republican colleagues from the State of Minnesota as well. 
   Sometimes in the course of events, there comes a coming together of a person and an event that is almost God given. And I think that is this case, Mr. Oberstar. No one in the country knows more than you do about the infrastructure of our country, the needs that we have out there, and the solutions that are the best ones. We are sad that your State was stricken, but maybe it is fortuitous for the country because it hit home for you. The spotlight is on your State. The spotlight is on your committee as we reach out with this $250 million for the highway emergency fund. I think that the opportunity that is there and the knowledge, wisdom, solutions that you know better than anyone will serve our country very well. 
   I really appreciated the remarks of the gentleman from Alaska. We do have to make an investment in our infrastructure. In this case, no maintenance is the most expensive maintenance, as the people in Minnesota found out as some of their loved ones paid with their lives. So we have to figure out a way to pay as we go, no deficit spending, but understand that a capital budget is necessary to invest in the infrastructure of our country. It is what we owe the American people. It is about our environment, by relieving congestion. It is about quality time for families to spend less time on the roads. And as we learned, of course, and always knew but what was driven home in Minnesota, it is about the safety of our people. 
   Imagine, to be a mom or dad and to have a loved one leave home, a husband or wife, sister or brother, leave home in the morning or sometime during the day, of all the things you can protect your children from, of all the anticipation that you can have, you would never think, What if the bridge goes down? We want to remove that fear from America's families.     
   I know, Mr. Oberstar, that you are in a position to do so. I'm sure you will let us know how we can all help. And, Mr. Mica, you as well. This is bringing us together this evening in a very special way. I hope it is a comfort to the families who lost their loved ones that so many people in our country feel this as a personal loss and are praying for them at this very difficult time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (IMPROVING FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE TO DEFEND THE NATION AND THE CONSTITUTION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - August 03, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank him for championing civil liberties in our country for such a long, long time. I want to express my admiration and respect for you, Mr. Conyers, as the distinguished Chair of the Judiciary Committee. And to the distinguished Chair of the House Intelligence Committee, Mr. Reyes, congratulations to you for this excellent work. It is difficult, because we have to balance security and liberty. Two great patriots have brought this bill to the floor. Mr. Reyes, you have served our country in many capacities to secure our country, and you are doing so in your capacity as Chair of the Intelligence Committee. 
   Madam Speaker, in my service in Congress I have had the privilege of  serving on the Intelligence Committee longer than anyone, 10 years as a member directly and now my fifth year ex officio as leader and now Speaker of the House. 
   I considered it a service to our country that was important to our national security. I salute the men and women who serve our country in the intelligence community for their bravery and for their patriotism. 
   Congress has always for many years had a special interest in intelligence. We all recognize that we want our President and our policymakers to have the best possible intelligence. We want to do so in a way, though, that again balances liberty and security. We want to use every tool at our disposal to collect the intelligence that we need, again, to protect the American people, but we must do so under the law. That is what we are talking about here tonight. 
   In 1978, it was recognized that Congress had a role, the checks and balances, in determining how our intelligence was collected, analyzed and disseminated. Those are the three aspects of intelligence. Tonight, we are talking largely about collection. 
   In 1978, when the FISA law was passed, we were in a different era. It is clear that as it established Congress' rights in this arena and the checks and balances necessary to protect the American people, we also have to recognize today that technology is vastly different than it was at that time. So Congress has always stood willing, in a bipartisan way, to make amendments to the FISA act that would reflect the change in technology. 
   If anything in what we do should be nonpartisan, it is intelligence. It should be analyzed in a way that has no political approach to it, and the laws governing it should be written in a nonpartisan way. 
   That is why so many of us worked so closely, the distinguished Chairs of the committees of jurisdiction, Judiciary and Intelligence, including the majority leader, who just spoke, we worked closely with the Senate leadership, with the administration, trying to work in a bipartisan way to meet the needs of the American people. 
   As Mr. Hoyer indicated, and I won't go into it in detail, this involved a series of communications, both in person, on the telephone and otherwise, with the Director of National Intelligence. He presented to us, as I believe Congresswoman Harman has indicated and the chairmen have indicated, he presented us his three must-have provisions in the FISA law, and we wrote a bill that reflected, in fact echoed, the request of the Director of National Security. 
   When we sent that to him, he came back and said, I have additional changes that I am requesting, and we accommodated them as far as we could under the balance of liberty and security. 
   As Mr. Hoyer said, when we asked in the presence of the majority leader in the Senate, the Speaker of the House, the Chairs of the intelligence committees, House and Senate, and Armed Services from the Senate, the Director of DNI, that group of people gathered said that our bill would make us significantly safer. It was a positive contribution, as the leader said. Not that he endorsed the bill, because by then the administration had a different approach. 
   It made it seem for some time, why we were going back and forth with this, trying to accommodate the DNI. I know that he was negotiating in good faith. I hope that he will accept what we are proposing in that same good faith. 
   Some of the things that have been rejected since those conversations, but I hope will reappear in the Senate bill, are to diminish the role of the Attorney General in the decision-making on this. We have always said that there would be a third branch of government, the courts, to issue the warrants. The discretion in this situation is now given to the Attorney General. 
   Without any reference to the current Attorney General, and there will be some who might question his judgment, I don't want Alberto Gonzales to have this much power, but in a Democratic administration, I would not want that Attorney General to have this much power. It should be a different branch of government. 
   So we have seen them come up with these pieces of legislation that substitute the Attorney General for the FISA courts. It is just totally unacceptable. 
   While we are trying to address the emergency concerns of the Director of National Intelligence, we know we will have a bigger bill down the road to go into some other issues of concern, but without the same urgency. That is why this legislation must be sunsetted, because no matter how you look at it, it gives extraordinary power to the administration beyond the intent of the FISA law, and certainly outside the values of our Founding Fathers, to balance liberty and security. 
   Having made the changes to our proposal that respond to each of the Director's concerns and having him describe our proposal as a significant improvement in his current capabilities, I would have expected that he would be leading the charge for this bill's passage.     
   That is not happening, but that does not mean that this bill is inadequate. The judgment of the Director of National Intelligence stands. He knew to whom he was speaking that evening, and he was clear in his assessment. 
   All of us in Congress want to do everything within our power to protect the American people from terrorism. As I say, as a 15-year member of the Intelligence Committee, both as a member and ex officio, I know full well and sadly the threats to our country. I know full well the capabilities that we have and some that we need. Every person, as Congresswoman Harman said, every person in this body is fully committed, is fully committed to collecting the intelligence that we need to protect the American people. But we must do it under the law, and sometimes that's where we differ. 
   You will hear our colleagues stand on this floor and say, terrorist to terrorist in foreign lands, the Democrats don't want you to collect on them; and they want to make you have a warrant to do it. 
   When I hear my colleagues say that, I think either they don't know or they don't care about the truth. Because that is patently untrue. And it has always been a mystery to me about this House of Representatives that somebody can misrepresent the facts, some would call, I don't like the word ``lie,'' but if you said they were lying, your words would be taken down. And yet misrepresentations about the intentions of Members of this body are being made here tonight that simply are not true. 
   So let's put that aside and talk about how we can work together to honor the needs of our people, to recognize the changes in technology and to honor the oath of office that we take here to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States as we protect and defend the American people. 
   I urge a ``yes'' vote on this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3773, RESTORE ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 17, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and commend him for his excellent management of this rule affording us the opportunity to bring this important legislation to the floor. 
   I commend Chairman Reyes and Chairman Conyers for their leadership  in protecting and defending the American people by putting forth the best way to collect intelligence under the law. 
   Mr. Speaker, as we say over and over again here, and each one of us who comes to serve in this body, indeed, everyone who serves our country takes an oath of office to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. It's a thrill to take that oath of office. 
   As we protect and defend the American people in the preamble, it says to form a more perfect Union, Mr. Jackson has been a champion on that, to provide for the common defense. In that preamble, that's a high priority for us. We have a responsibility to protect the American people; that makes everything else possible in our community and in our society. 
   But as we protect and defend the American people, our oath of office calls upon us to protect and defend the Constitution and our civil liberties. The legislation before us today does just that. It's about protecting the American people from terrorism and other national security threats. 
   I, for a long time, have served on the Intelligence Committee, both as a member, as the ranking member, and also ex officio as leader and now as Speaker. I believe very firmly in the role that intelligence gathering plays in protecting the American people. We want to prevent war. We want to prevent harm to our forces. Force protection is a very, very high priority for us. Protection of our forces. And we must now meet this horrible challenge of fighting terrorism in the world. It has been a challenge for some time. In order to do that, we have to have the laws in place in order to collect that intelligence under the law, and that is what this legislation does. First, it helps us defend our country against terrorism and other threats. Secondly, it protects the privacy of the American people, which is important to them and a responsibility for us. And third, this legislation restores a system of checks and balances and how we protect and defend our country and provides for rigorous oversight by Congress of this collection. 
   In the 1970s, when the FISA law was passed, it was conceded that Congress had a role in determining how intelligence was conducted, how the executive branch conducted the collection of intelligence, the executive branch, Congress, making laws to govern that, two Houses, two branches of government. And in the FISA bill that was passed at that time, the role of the third branch of government was defined, the FISA Courts. That system of checks and balances has served our country well. With the advance of technology, additional challenges arose, and this legislation meets those challenges. Any suggestions to the contrary are simply not factual. What the Director of National Intelligence has asked for in terms of collection he has received in this legislation, and he has received it under the law. 
   The legislation restores checks and balances in other ways. It rejects groundless claims of inherent executive authority. Under that, we might as well just crown the President king and just say he has access to any information in our country, and he may collect that outside the law. 
   And this legislation reiterates that the law enacted by Congress, FISA, Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, is the exclusive means for conducting electronic surveillance to gather foreign intelligence. The principle of exclusivity is a very, very important principle, and it is enshrined in this legislation.     
   The bill also sunsets by December 31, 2009, at the same time the PATRIOT Act sunsets, so the next administration and another Congress can review whether the new program appropriately meets national security and civil liberty objectives. 
   This bill does not provide immunity to telecommunications companies that participated in the President's warrantless surveillance program. As I have said many times, you can't even consider such relief unless we know what people are asking for immunity from. Congress is not a rubber stamp; we are a coequal branch of government. We have a right to know what conduct the administration wants us to immunize against. 
   Working side by side, the Intelligence Committee and the Judiciary Committee have produced an excellent bill. It has been heralded so by those organizations whose organized purpose is to protect our civil liberties in light of our responsibility to our national security. It has been heralded by those who follow and hold as a value the privacy of the American people. It has been heralded by those who understand that one of our first responsibilities is to provide for the common defense. Our Founders understood it well, the balance that needed to be struck between security and liberty. They spoke eloquently to it in their speeches. They enshrined it in the Constitution. Let us protect the American people under the law. 
   Please, my colleagues, support this very important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007 -- (House of Representatives - May 10, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. Once again, as I have done over and over again, I thank him for yielding, for bringing this important legislation to the floor, and for his extraordinary leadership. 
   I also want to commend Mr. Murtha for his leadership as well in shaping this path to stability in the Middle East and bringing an end to the war and bringing our troops home safely and soon. 
   I also want to acknowledge Mr. Skelton, the Chair of the Armed Services Committee. He has been busy at work on his authorization bill, but he very much helped shape this proposal. I commend him and many other Members here who have made this path to stability in the Middle East possible.     
   Since January, a majority of the Members of this House have been working to change course and change the mission in Iraq. Our goals are clear: Strengthen our military; bring stability to the region; and make the American people safer by ending the war, allowing our attention to be refocused on defeating international terrorism, and at the same time, honoring our commitment to our veterans which, as we have seen unfold in recent months, has been sadly neglected. 
   Today, we will take the next step in that effort in this legislation by: Providing for our troops fighting a war in Iraq that the President initiated, but for which he has refused to pay in his annual budget requests; honoring our commitment to our wounded veterans of Iraq, Afghanistan and other wars who struggle to get the medical care and benefits they deserve from a system overwhelmed, underfunded and unable to respond effectively; demanding accountability from the Iraqi government on whose efforts a national reconciliation depends, but whose accomplishments in this area have been negligible, disappointing and unworthy of the sacrifice of our troops on the ground in Iraq. 
   And this legislation ends the blank check for the President's war without end. It does provide a path to stability in the Middle East by changing our mission in Iraq and enables us to focus on the threat of terrorism. 
   Chairman Obey's bill satisfies each of these requirements and meets the immediate needs of our troops, but allows Congress to decide in a few months whether the situation on the ground in Iraq justifies using the remaining money to redeploy our forces or continue the war. 
   The President's own benchmarks, these are the President's own benchmarks for measuring progress in Iraq, will be the centerpiece of that evaluation. You would think that the President would embrace this legislation. It has his benchmarks. It asks for a progress report. Perhaps he thinks there will be no progress so he is afraid of that report. And then a vote in the House as to whether to continue the war. The President's own benchmarks  for measuring progress in Iraq again will be the centerpiece. His benchmark. This is the kind of regular and responsible review of the war Congress should have been conducting since the mission began more than 4 years ago. 
   Regrettably, but not surprisingly, the President has threatened to veto the Obey bill. Unfortunately, the President has taken us down this road before. The President has brought us to this point by vetoing the first Iraq Accountability Act and refusing to pay for this war responsibly. He has grown accustomed to the free hand on Iraq that he had before January 4. Those days are over. 
   The American people have made it clear that they want a new direction in Iraq, one that is going to bring this war to an end. They have lost confidence that the President can or will produce a plan to do that. Even some members of the President's own party have finally realized he has lost credibility with the American people. 
   The President said today that he would accept benchmarks. But what he fails to accept is accountability for failing to meet those benchmarks. Benchmarks without consequences are meaningless. 
   It is interesting to me that in the President's No Child Left Behind legislation, he establishes standards for America's school children. If those children do not meet those standards, there are serious consequences for them, for their families, for their schools and for their school districts. And yet, while holding America's school children accountable with consequences, the President refuses to hold the Iraqi government responsible with consequences while our young people in Iraq are dying. 
   The President said again today he would accept these benchmarks, we hope that he will and reconsider the thought of veto. This is a bill he should like. It has his benchmarks. It asks for a progress report. He must have some confidence in what he is doing and then leave it up to the Congress to make a judgment in July. What could be fairer than that. 
   Congress has offered the President recommendations for change in Iraq. In rejecting them, he has offered nothing in return except a demand for more of the same, a blank check for a war without end. 
   The American people expect more and deserve better. A war which has ended so many lives, weakened our military at a great risk to our security and costs so much money, costs so much in reputation for America throughout the world, cannot continue indefinitely. I don't know why the President doesn't understand. This war cannot proceed indefinitely, and that is the course he has us on. 
   Any engagement that we have militarily should meet the test of: Does it make our country safer? Does it strengthen our military? And does it bring stability to the region that we are engaged in? The President's policy fails on all three scores. 
   This bill offers more ideas for winding down this war. I urge the President to consider these ideas and those which may be proposed by the Senate and work with us in conference to produce a bill that meets the needs of our troops and the expectation of our country. We owe it to the American people to try to find our common ground so we can end this war, and we will do that. But we will stand our ground if it is a blank check for a war without end. 
   We look forward to continuing our conversations with the White House, with the Senate, to again draw down this war and bring home our troops safely and soon. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HOUSE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - April 19, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding me time and for his leadership in bringing this legislation to the floor. 
   Mr. Speaker, today is a proud day for this House and for the District of Columbia and for our Nation. Today, we will fulfill our obligation to do right by the citizens of the District of Columbia. 
   Mr. Speaker, I commend the steadfast leadership, the exceptional tenacity, the relentless persistence of the gentlewoman from the District of Columbia (Ms. Norton). Because of her today, America will be greater. 
   I also appreciate the leadership of the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Tom Davis) making this bill one that has bipartisan cosponsorship. Again, without his participation, we wouldn't be here. For his support over a long period of time, we are all in your debt, Mr. Davis.     
   I want to thank also Mr. Conyers and Mr. Waxman for their leadership; STENY HOYER, who has made this a mission in his life. It is a proud day for all of us. 
   Mr. Speaker, I take some personal pleasure in today's proceedings, because when I was born, my father was a Member of Congress. He was on the Appropriations Committee and he chaired the District of Columbia committee. At that time there was no mayor, there was no home rule. He was a strong supporter for the District to attain both. He would never have imagined all those many, many years ago that it would take this long to get a full vote on the floor for the District of Columbia. 
   And of course we would like, Mr. Chairman, to have statehood for the District of Columbia so they could have full representation for their taxation. But today we take this giant step. 
   This bipartisan effort to secure full voting representation in this House should command the support of all. Indeed, 82 percent of the American people support the District of Columbia having full voting rights on the floor of the House. This vote fulfills the promise of our democracy. It reflects what we stand for at home and preach around the world. 
   As the Supreme Court has said: ``No right is more precious in a free country than that of having a voice in the election of those who make the laws under which we, as good citizens, must live.'' 
   Today, we seek to affirm an enduring principle of our democracy, the right to be heard and represented fully. For more than 200 years, the citizens of the District of Columbia have been denied full voting representation. This legislation corrects a serious flaw in our democracy. 
   Mr. Speaker, every single day that this Congress is in session, we take a pledge to the flag and to the Republic for which it stands. And at the end we say, ``with liberty and justice for all.'' That ``for all'' must include the people of the District of Columbia. 
   America is at its best and honors the cause of justice and freedom when all voices are fully represented. And we know that the citizens of the District of Columbia will give their voices to a vision of justice, equality and opportunity for all. They have already had the voice. Now they will have the vote. 
   Now is the time to honor our democracy. We will not rest until full voting representation in the House is granted to the District of Columbia. That is our obligation and our pledge. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (EXPRESSING THE CONDOLENCES OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ON THE DEATH OF THE HONORABLE TOM LANTOS, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA -- (House of Representatives - February 12, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank him for the formal notification of the Congress that he presented earlier to the House of Representatives, and thank him for bringing us this opportunity to express our sadness over the passing of our colleague, TOM LANTOS. 
   Madam Speaker and my colleagues, yesterday morning when I received the very sad news of Chairman Lantos's passing, that call was followed very quickly by a call from the President of the United States expressing to me as Speaker, but through me to each and every one of you, his sadness over TOM's passing and his words of praise for TOM LANTOS's leadership. I told the President how appreciative I knew we would all be of his kind words and that I would convey them to this House of Representatives. 
   Madam Speaker, you know that the House, not only the House, the Congress, the country, has lost one of its most talented leaders, and the world, indeed the world, has lost one of its greatest champions for human rights with the passing of Chairman TOM LANTOS. He was a statesman, he was a gentleman, and he will be deeply missed. 
   As the only Holocaust survivor ever elected to Congress, TOM LANTOS devoted his public life to shining a bright light on the dark corners of oppression. From his earliest days in the House, when he founded with Congressman JON PORTER the Congressional Human Rights Caucus, to his final days as  chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, he used his powerful voice to stir the consciousness of world leaders and the public alike. 
   Because he had lost his mother and so much of his family in the Holocaust, his wife, Annette, his two daughters, Annette and Katrina, his grandchildren and great grandchildren were the center of his universe. 
   Madam Speaker, I told some of our colleagues earlier that TOM and Annette were a team in every way. Whether it was establishing the Human Rights Caucus or working together for the benefit of his district and our country, they were a team. And all who knew TOM knew how devoted he was to his family and to Annette, whom he adored. They worked as a team, bringing great intellect, experience, and compassion to their outstanding work in public service. 
   Annette was alone after the Holocaust as well, and when they married, they had two daughters, Annette and Katrina, who produced this wonderful family of 18 grandchildren. Two daughters, 18 grandchildren. They said to their parents, you lost your families in the Holocaust. We are bringing to you a new family. And how proud TOM was for all of that. 
   Having lived the worst evil known to mankind, TOM LANTOS translated his experience into a lifetime commitment to the fight against anti-Semitism, for Holocaust education, and commitment to the State of Israel. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (ASIAN PACIFIC HERITAGE MONTH -- (House of Representatives - May 07, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in celebration of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. 
   I am proud to represent the city of San Francisco, where we are blessed in our community to have a thriving Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) population. It is home to our Nation's oldest Japantown, one of the largest Chinatowns, and countless other ethnic communities. 
   As one of the fastest growing ethnic groups in our country, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders contribute to our economic prosperity, cultural diversity, and political process. Representing 11 different ethnicities, they have a unique voice, which plays a role in the work that we do in Congress to improve the lives of Americans every day. 
   While the debate about comprehensive immigration reform intensifies across the country, it is recognized by many of my colleagues as a hurdle that particularly affects Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. Whether it is a Chinese student waiting for a visa, or the South Asian worker waiting to be reunited with his family, comprehensive immigration reform is a challenge that must be met. Their experiences reflect that of the first immigrants to our country, who dreamt of a better life for themselves. Within the AAPI community, there is a beautiful diversity that reflects the ideals of family values, hard work, and a wonderful optimism that our nation was founded upon. 
   Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders also face the tragic challenge of combating hate crimes. Last week, the House of Representatives passed legislation that strengthened the ability of local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies to solve a wide range of violent hate crimes based on religion, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, national origin, or disability. Although a hate crime may affect the life of one victim, its impact reaches deep into the community. All Americans have a right to feel safe in their community. Sadly, we remember Song Sun Lee, Stephen Kam Yan Li, and Robert Stanford, all recent victims of hate, whose lives were unjustly cut short. 
   As we work on legislation to improve lives for the future, we must remember the challenges from the past. World War II set the stage for courageous acts of heroism, but at the same time generated acts of grave injustice and discrimination. I salute the Filipino Veterans who fought bravely during World War II and join them in their fight for full veterans' benefits. I recognize the courage of the remaining comfort women and will work to ensure that their rights are protected. 
   I am pleased to stand here with my colleagues who also recognize the efforts and accomplishments of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in this country. I thank Chairman MIKE HONDA and the rest of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus for their continuous efforts to ensure that the millions of voices of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders are heard. 
   As we celebrate, let us continue well past Asian Pacific Heritage Month to value and appreciate the contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders living in the United States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (THANKS AND WELL WISHES TO ROB NABORS -- (House of Representatives - December 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I want to join my colleagues and sing the praises of Rob Nabors. 
   We are blessed in the Congress with magnificent staff on both sides of the aisle who serve the American people very well, none more excellent than Rob Nabors. 
   It is with great congratulations that we send him off to the new administration to work for President-elect and then President Obama but not without some sadness in losing him here in the Congress. 
   Rob, thank you for your service to our country, for your excellence in your work, and for the friendship that you have provided to many of us and for the courage and fortitude you have exhibited in working under the great leadership of Chairman Obey. Thank you, Rob Nabors, again. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (AUTO INDUSTRY FINANCING AND RESTRUCTURING ACT -- (House of Representatives - December 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentlelady for yielding. 
   I rise in support of this important legislation and commend Chairman Frank for his persistence in bringing a very focused, disciplined bill to the floor and thank Mr. Bachus for his leadership as well. 
   As Speaker of the House, I am pleased to rise to quote another Speaker of the House, Sam Rayburn, a legend in our country, certainly in this Congress. He served here with great distinction, as many of us know from the history books and some of us saw as students, and he said the following. He said: When I was a child, I lived way out in the country. I'd sit on the fence on Sundays and wish to God that somebody would ride by on a horse or drive by on a buggy, just anything to relieve my loneliness. Loneliness, he said, consumes people. That's why I'm so glad to see that today farmers have cars. And he goes on to say what that progress meant in the life of developing a sense of community. 
   Since the days when the Model Ts first rolled off Henry Ford's assembly line owning a car has been part of the American dream. I know when I was young and when the new models would come out it was a very festive occasion. It has been for a long time. I just haven't kept up with all the cars. But today, the American automotive industry is imperiled due not only to recession and a credit freeze, but because it has been on the wrong track for long-term competitiveness and job creation. 
   Today, we are considering legislation not as life support to sustain a dying industry but a jump start for an industry that is essential to our country's economies, economic health. One in 10 American jobs is linked to the domestic auto industry, and it is a key pillar in an American sector critical to our national security and economic competitiveness for decades to come. 
   This legislation is about offering Detroit, and America, a chance to get back on track. This legislation is important. It is built on four principles, and actually it comes down to a question of tough love, tough love for an industry whose success is essential to our economic success, whose jobs are important to our workforce, whose innovation is essential to our progress, and whose manufacturing and technological and industrial base is also essential to our national security. 
   There are four principles in the bill. First, when we ask taxpayers to put up money to fund this restructuring, we must have accountability to the American people. The President will designate a car czar to oversee the industry's restructuring. The taxpayers get a return on their investment or are first in line to be repaid. I thank Mr. Frank for insisting on that provision. No golden parachutes, bonuses, or corporate jets for executives. And the Government Accountability Office and the TARP, that's the Troubled Assets Relief Program, Inspector General will provide independent oversight to protect our investment. Accountability for the taxpayer. 
   Second, there must be shared sacrifice. Everybody, every party to the auto sector must be present at the table. Mr. McCotter rightfully referenced the United Auto Workers making concessions, but they shouldn't be the only ones making concessions. I've called it a barbershop: When one person gets a haircut, everyone must get a haircut. That means those who are shareholders, those who are bondholders must have a cramdown on what return they get on the dollar. Suppliers have to understand the realities of what the market is for these cars. Dealers have to be treated with the respect that all of these elements deserve but with the reality of what the real marketplace is and what the market for the cars are. The auto workers have made concessions already. Perhaps they must be expedited, perhaps they must do more, but everything must be a shared sacrifice, and if one element is going to make the sacrifice, they shouldn't be asked to do so unless everyone shares in that. And the executive suite, the management of the companies, they must be part of that sacrifice as well, and I referenced that in the accountability section. 
   Third, the auto makers must restructure or repay. The companies must restructure to achieve viability, international competitiveness, and they must do this with fuel efficiency and reduced emissions. 
   And this is important for our colleagues who do not support this bill because we share many views. This has to be a tough standard because otherwise we're just putting out money for more of the same, but that is not what this legislation is about nor should it be. If they do not, the car czar can require immediate repayment of a loan if the company has not made adequate progress by February 15 to develop a long-term restructuring plan. The company will get no more Federal assistance if it fails to submit an acceptable final restructuring plan by March 31. 
   The list again, accountability, shared sacrifice, restructuring, and fourth and finally, there must be a commitment to innovation and efficiency.     
   Green is gold. Green is gold. Making a commitment to innovation and fuel economy and better emission standards makes the automotive industry in our country more competitive. People will want to buy their cars. 
   The legislation calls for maintaining a half billion dollars of the innovation funding set aside to help the industry retool to build advanced technology vehicles that greatly improve efficiency and reduce carbon emissions, and replenishing the remainder of the innovation funds in a matter of weeks. 
   Now, let me just say this. I have objected strenuously to using the green funds, the so-called 136 funds, because their purpose in our energy bill last year was very specific. It was for advanced, innovative manufacturing technology. In other words, it was for the retooling and making sure that companies had funds for them to research, develop, and benefit from that funding. The administration insisted that money be used instead for this restructuring period of time. I reluctantly agreed only with the idea that the money would be replenished, because without their advanced manufacturing technology, we are not going to have the progress necessary to compete internationally and domestically, for that matter. And most of that is about the environment. It's about the greening of the automotive industry. 
   I know the automotive industry can do it. Do you know, my colleagues, that in Europe this year the car that took first place in the ratings there was a GM Opel, a GM Opel, a General Motors Opel? Second place went to Ford Fiesta. Over 100 points behind them was Volkswagen. So these are General Motors- and Ford-made cars. Ranking just 1 point behind was Ford, 100 points or more behind was Volkswagen. These are American company-made cars in Europe that they have not chosen to sell in America. 
   Something is wrong with this picture. We know that in Latin America the flex-fuel cars for years have been sold. They were American-made cars, made by American manufacturers. Millions of them. But the industry chose not to advance them here because they made more money off of SUVs and the executive compensation and bonuses were tied to SUVs. Something is very wrong with this picture. 
   So what we are saying here is let everybody come to the table. Everybody get a haircut. Everybody has got to get a trim, maybe a big trim. Only then can we restructure this so that we have a competitive industry looking to the future, as Sam Rayburn looked to the future when he was so excited about seeing cars for the first time, bringing the American people together, American cars that have always been part of the American Dream. 
   So I'm optimistic because I see us with two choices: One is the automotive industry is on the brink, and some are advocating bankruptcy. Some of the people advocating bankruptcy will make money off that bankruptcy. But that takes us down to a deep pit that over a long period of time is detrimental to our economy, harmful to our workers, and certainly does not make us more competitive internationally. 
   Instead we have listened to what the companies have had to say. We said you're not going to see any money until we see the plan. We've seen the plan. It was better than what we saw before. Much more needs to be done. This affords a period of time with half of what they asked for. But we want to see performance, we want to see milestones by certain dates that they are  making this progress. And we want to see a change in mentality in the executive suite in Detroit. 
   What a great community, what a great State, Detroit and Michigan. They have been part, again, of the manufacturing part of the American Dream. We want to throw a lifeline for success. We do not intend to afford life support so that we just have to revisit this issue again at the same status quo. 
   So if you're upset with how the Big Three executives have operated, if you're upset about the fact that we are not competitive internationally, if you're upset that the taxpayer dollar has to be used to be committed to this, you should be very pleased with what this legislation does because it captures your frustration with it all. It sets us on a new path to viability, and it is a test, and we will soon see in a matter of weeks if the executive suites in Detroit are willing to make the choices. Certainly there needs to be retooling of the plants. Certainly there has to be renegotiating of the contracts. There may have to be reconsideration of the management of these companies if they cannot live up to the standard of this legislation and prove themselves worthy of the taxpayers' dollar that is being placed there. 
   So I think that on both sides of this issue we have a great deal of common ground. I just happen to come down on the side of giving a chance, this one more chance, to this great industry, optimistic by March 31 that we will all celebrate the new path that we are going down, but certainly ready, certainly ready to admit if that does not happen because unless it is absolutely clear in the minds of the people that we are talking about, the executives, the shareholders, the bondholders, the suppliers, the dealers, all of whom I respect, and the workers, who are a very high priority for us, unless it is clear to them that concessions and serious concessions must be made or else the alternative is almost unthinkable, they will not make the necessary concessions in some cases. 
   I salute the United Auto Workers for stepping up to the plate, for being the model, for leading the way to say we respect this industry, we want to advance it, and we are willing to take the lead in making those concessions. 
   So this is an important day in the life of America when the Congress speaking for the people, who are rightfully unhappy about all of this money going to companies that are supposed to be in the free market and be competitive, but nonetheless understanding what is at risk for all of us. As keepers of the taxpayers' trust here, if bankruptcy were to occur, the additional cost in unemployment insurance and food stamps and the safety net and the revenue foregone in our tax situation, locally, State, and nationally, would exact much more of a toll than the amount of money that we would be putting forth here. 
   So again I salute Mr. Frank for his leadership. 
   And may I say that at the end of the day yesterday, the legislation that you have before us is the legislation that we conceded on several points to agree to the White House language. This is bipartisan in its nature, and it is the legislation that we said we would go forward with in a bipartisan way that the President would sign. Others have made other changes, adjustments, whatever it is. They say on the Senate side they need this and that. But we operate in good faith. We agree to concessions. And we would hope that the White House would keep its word that it gave us last night about this legislation and encourage the Senate to follow suit and the President can sign the bill so the message will be clear to the markets and to the American people, to the workers and to all concerned with this great industry that we want to share in that sacrifice as well and we stand willing to do it by voting ``yes'' on this important legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (TEMPORARY TAX RELIEF ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - November 09, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for his leadership on the Ways and Means Committee. I commend the distinguished chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, and respect the leadership also of the distinguished ranking member of that committee. 
   Thank you, Mr. Rangel, for your leadership in bringing this important legislation to the floor. It enables us as Members of Congress to plant a flag for fiscal responsibility, to plant a flag for the middle class in our country, and to plant a flag for competitiveness, to keep America number one. 
   Mr. Speaker, this legislation is important because it provides long overdue middle-class tax relief, preventing a tax increase that will fall upon the middle class come this next year. The bill is about tax fairness; it is about fiscal responsibility; and, again, it is about keeping America competitive. 
   When we talk about fiscal responsibility, unfortunately, it always seems necessary, after listening to my Republican colleagues, to set the record straight. 
   The Democratic Party is the party of fiscal responsibility. When President Clinton was President, his four final budgets were in surplus. He left office with our budget on a trajectory of $5.6 trillion in surplus. Sadly, the Bush administration reversed that taking us to over $3 trillion in deficit, a swing. Now we are at a swing of about $10 trillion, a swing that is greater than anyone has ever seen in history in terms of fiscal irresponsibility. 
   And what did the Congressional Budget Office under the Republican  leadership say was the leading cause for that? Tax cuts for the wealthy. Don't blame it on the war; don't blame it on anything other than what it really was: tax cuts for the wealthy. 
   And so today we see a change. Tax cuts for the wealthy under the Bush administration and a Republican Congress paid for by the middle class. Today we reverse that: tax cuts for the middle class, paid for by the wealthiest people in our country. 
   And as we give this tax break, who is getting it? Think of it, 23 million middle-class families are protected from higher taxes due to the alternative minimum tax. Thirty million homeowners will receive property tax relief. Twelve million children will benefit from the expanded child tax credit, and 4.5 million families will get help affording college education. This is in addition to our earlier investment of the largest expansion of college affordability since the GI Bill in 1944. Thousands of our men and women in uniform will receive tax relief under the earned income tax credit. They were prohibited from qualifying for that because our Republican colleagues would not disregard combat pay in that consideration. 
   So fiscal responsibility, tax cuts for the middle class, and competitiveness for our country. This weekend as we go into observing Veterans Day, we all know the great debt of gratitude we owe our veterans for their service to our country, their sacrifice, their patriotism and the sacrifices they and their families are willing to make. 
   What veterans have done over the generations is to protect our democracy. Essential to the success of a democracy, though, is a thriving middle class, in our country and in countries throughout the world, a thriving middle class. And this legislation is in furtherance of supporting that middle class and therefore supporting our democracy. 
   In keeping with our pay-as-you-go rules with no new deficit spending, this legislation will ensure that our children will not inherit a legacy of debt. In terms of competitiveness, this legislation extends the R&D tax credit and new markets tax credits, among other things; but I mention those two because they are directly related to our Innovation Agenda, our commitment to competitiveness to keep America number one. 
   So, again: fiscal responsibility, favoring the middle class, keeping America competitive and number one. Democrats are committed to putting middle-class families first. The choice is simple: tax relief for millions of middle-class families or protecting tax loopholes, the Wall Street loophole, that allows a privileged few to pay a lower rate than America's teachers, firefighters, nurses, doctors, police, and our men and women in uniform fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is about the people who are the backbone of America. 
   The choice is a simple one. Today we Democrats say join us in voting in favor of America's middle class. 
   I urge the passage of this legislation and again commend the distinguished chairman and distinguished Chair of the subcommittee, Mr. Neal, for their leadership. 
   I am proud of the courage that my colleagues have shown to protect our middle class and to do so in a fiscally sound way and in a way that, again, keeps America competitive, honoring the service of our men and women in uniform, to build a future worthy of their sacrifice.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - June 20, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. I thank him for his great leadership as the chairman of the Intelligence Committee. I commend him. 
   I commend Mr. Conyers, the distinguished chairman of the Judiciary Committee, for although he is not supporting the legislation before us today, he certainly had a tremendous impact to improve it. Thank you for your relentless championing of civil liberties in our country, Mr. Conyers. 
   I want to pay special tribute to our majority leader, Mr. Hoyer, for making this compromise possible today. It's a very difficult task, many competing views as to how we should go forward. Mr. Hoyer handled it all with great intellect and great respect for all of those views. Thank you, Mr. Hoyer. 
   Also want to acknowledge Mr. Smith and Mr. Hoekstra and minority whip, Mr. Blunt, for their leadership in giving us this opportunity today. 
   We've heard it over and over again. Our colleagues say this bill is not perfect, this isn't the bill I would write. I prefer this bill, I prefer that bill. 
   Well, I prefer the House bill that passed and was sent to the Senate. It isn't an option for us. I do not, I totally reject the Senate bill which is an option, and that is the comparison that we have to make, the contrast that we have to make today. 
   But in doing so, I think we all understand the important responsibility that we have in this Congress, focused on this debate today. I always take the debate back to our responsibility when we take the oath of office. We take an oath of office to protect and defend the Constitution from all enemies, foreign and domestic. In that preamble to our Constitution, we must provide for the common defense. Essential to honoring that commitment to protect the American people is to have the intelligence, operational intelligence that will help us do that. 
   When I first went on the Intelligence Committee, our focus was on force protection. Our troops in the field depend on timely and reliable intelligence to make the decisions necessary to keep them safe and to do their job. Force protection, force protection, force protection. It is still a primary responsibility of our intelligence. 
   In addition to that, we have the fight on the war against terrorism, the fight against terrorism, wherever it may exist. Good intelligence is necessary for us to know the plans of the terrorists and to defeat those plans. 
   So we can't go without a bill. That's just simply not an option. But to have a bill, we must have a bill that does not violate the Constitution of the United States, and this bill does not. 
   Some in the press have said that under this legislation, this bill would allow warrantless surveillance of Americans. That is not true. This bill does not allow warrantless surveillance of Americans. I just think we have to stipulate to some set of facts. 
   We may have our opinions about the bill, but there have been so many versions of the story of different bills that have come up, the PAA last year, which I thought was totally unacceptable. The Senate bill, also unacceptable. Our House bill, which I mentioned before, which I thought was the appropriate way to go, and now this compromise. 
   As I was talking with Mr. Hoyer in the course of his negotiations, there were certain things that I thought had to be in the bill to make it acceptable, certain threshold issues that had to be there, and they are. 
   In terms of the original FISA bill, it's interesting to note that this bill is an improvement on that in three important ways. 
   First, we all recognize the changes in technology necessitate a change in the legislation, and this legislation today modernizes our intelligence-gathering system by recognizing and responding to technological developments that have occurred since the original FISA Act in 1978. In doing so, we can make the country safer in a more advanced technological way. 
   Second, and this is very, very important, and there's some misunderstanding about this. This bill provides that Americans overseas receive the same FISA protection, including an individualized warrant based on probable cause, as Americans living within the country. This is a very important improvement on the original FISA Act. 
   Third, this bill strengthens congressional oversight. And this is very important, the transparency. Transparency and intelligence don't always go together, but accountability is central to intelligence. This strengthens congressional oversight by requiring that the executive branch provide more extensive information about the conduct of surveillance to both the Intelligence Committee and the Judiciary Committee. This is new, this is better. The more we know, the better, I think, the law will be enforced. 
   If this bill does not pass, we will most certainly be left with the Senate bill. I think that's clear. And this bill is an improvement over the Senate bill in the following ways, just to name a few. 
   First of all, it reaffirms that FISA is the exclusive means of collecting foreign intelligence, and makes absolutely clear that the enactment of an authorization for the use of force does not give the President, whoever he may be, any inherent authority to alter the requirements of FISA. Very important. 
   This is important because President Bush believed, and this was what we were told, that he, as President of the United States, had inherent authority under the Constitution to do almost anything he wanted.  
   And what this bill reaffirms is that the FISA law is the authority for collecting foreign intelligence. There is no inherent authority of the President to do whatever he wants. This is a democracy. It is not a monarchy. 
   Secondly, it is an improvement of the Senate bill. And by the way, no offense to President Bush. I wouldn't want any President, Democrat or Republican, a Democratic President or a Republican President to have that authority. 
   Secondly, the bill provides that, except in rare circumstances there will be pre-surveillance review by the FISA Court.     
   And when I say rare circumstance, I mean very, very rare. 
   Unlike the Senate bill, this legislation retains FISA's broad definition of electronic surveillance and thus guarantees that basic protections of FISA apply to all the new forms of collection authorized by the bill. There had been an attempt, and that's why the Senate bill is inferior in this respect, to just narrow it to certain kinds of collection, and this says it applies to all collection, electronic surveillance. 
   Fourth, it contains specific protections against reverse targeting. This reverse targeting is very, very important to the civil liberties of the American people, and I am satisfied by the specific provisions against reverse targeting. It provides a full and independent review of the President's surveillance program by the Inspector General of the relevant agencies. 
   Of course, there are aspects of this compromise bill that I do not like. I don't believe that Congress should be in the business of interfering with ongoing lawsuits and attempting to grant immunity to telecommunication companies that allegedly violated the law. Those companies have not lived up to a standard expected by the American people. I don't think today is any cause for celebration for them. They come out of this with a taint. 
   I do not believe that the pending lawsuits would have achieved what we would have liked them to do which is what the Inspector General's review would, which is to learn the truth about the President's terrorist surveillance program and give us the information we need to make sure that never happens again. 
   In addition, this legislation makes sure that in the future, the telephone companies must fully comply with Federal statutes. 
   Again, it would have been my preference to vote for the RESTORE Act that the House sent over to the Senate. I do not consider it an option to live with the Senate bill. This is the opportunity that we have to protect the American people through the gathering of intelligence which is essential, as I said earlier, to force protection, to protect our men and women in uniform and help them make the decisions they need to do their jobs and keep them safe and to fight terrorists by learning their plans in advance and squelching them. 
   I want to thank those who have worked so hard to bring this bill to the floor. Again, it's not a happy occasion, but it's the work that we have to do. I think we have to remember getting back to the Constitution. The House, article 1, legislates. We pass the laws. The judiciary interprets the law. The executive branch enforces the law. And what is very important about whatever we pass, especially in relating to subjects relating to our security and our liberty, it's important that the President of the United States enforce this law honoring the Constitution of the United States recognizing the responsibility that we all have to protect the American people and protect the Constitution of the United States at the same time. 
   So again, a difficult decision for all of us. I respect every opinion that was expressed on this floor today. The knowledge, the sincerity, the passion and the intellect of those who support and oppose this have been very, very valuable in making the bill better, if not good enough for some, but certainly preferable to the alternative that we have which is the Senate bill which must be rejected. 
   I'm not asking anybody to vote for this bill. I just wanted you to know why I was. 
   Thank you, Madam Speaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (TOM LANTOS AND HENRY J. HYDE UNITED STATES GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AGAINST HIV/AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, AND MALARIA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - April 02, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding, and recognize his extraordinary leadership on issues that relate to the alleviation of poverty and eradication of disease, which really are a national security interest for our country. They are about the health and well-being, the respect we command throughout the world. 
   I want to commend Chairman Berman. I think this is probably the first piece of legislation to come out of the committee under your leadership as chairman, and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, the ranking member of the committee, for their leadership in bringing a bipartisan, strong initiative to the floor. This initiative is a continuation of the work that President Bush has as a priority in the eradication of AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis. 
   For those of us who have been involved in these issues over the years, whether on the committees of authorization, and Congresswoman Barbara Lee has been on the authorizing committee, and now on the appropriating committee; Congresswoman Waters, in many ways in the House; and you, Madam Chairman, all of us know that for our country to be healthy, for the eradication of these diseases to take place, we must have a global approach to it. Disease knows no borders and boundaries. So, again, while it is the compassionate thing to do, it is in our self-interest to do as well. 
   The distinguished chair, Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton, and I, and others, just had the opportunity to visit a PEPFAR site in India at the Salvation Army, where they were distributing these drugs through a regimen, an organized regimen related to hygiene and the rest to people with HIV and AIDS. We can tell you from firsthand experience; I visited these  sites in south Africa, this trip was to India, that wherever we go, there is great appreciation for what our country is doing, and President Bush's leadership on this subject. 
   I am so pleased that the bill is named for Congressman Chairman Lantos, our friend who left us earlier this year, and Congressman Hyde before that, because they were the original authors of the first historic President's emergency plan for AIDS relief legislation in 2003. That landmark bill authorized $15 billion for 5 years. Working together with the Bush administration and Appropriations Committee, we succeeded in providing lifesaving antiretroviral treatment to almost 1.5 million people, supporting care for nearly 6.7 million people, including more than 2.7 million orphans and vulnerable children; and supporting prevention of more than 150,000 infected infants. We are talking about AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis. Now we must take the next step in fighting AIDS in the poorest countries of the world. The legislation before us will move us from the emergency phase to the sustainability phase in fighting AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3963, CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - October 25, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlelady for yielding, the distinguished Chair of the Rules Committee, and I thank you for bringing this opportunity to the floor where Congress again will have to make a decision about our priorities. The Congress will, I know, in a very strong bipartisan vote, support the children of America because this has always been, as the gentlewoman indicated, a bipartisan initiative. 
   I first want to acknowledge the distinguished chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Mr. Dingell, for his work over the years. I believe his committee had seven hearings on the legislation regarding SCHIP. And the distinguished Chair of the Health Subcommittee, Mr. Pallone, is with us here. 
   I also want to acknowledge the great work of Charlie Rangel, the Chair of the Ways and Means Committee, who has been such a strong advocate for America's children in every way and, in particular, in this. He, too, had his markups on the bill, which improved the bill; and I want to acknowledge him and his distinguished Chair of the subcommittee, Mr. Stark. 
   But my highest praise goes to Republicans. Without the Republicans we wouldn't even have SCHIP. Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah really is the father of this initiative. As he tells us, two families in Provo, Utah, visited him in his office. Both of these families have two wage-earners, both of them making minimum wage, trying to support their families of four each. They pled with him that they could not provide health insurance for their children. Because they were working and they were above the poverty line, they did not qualify for Medicaid, and so their hard work was rewarded, not so, by not having health insurance for their children and that was where this all began.  
   Ten years ago, under a Democratic President, President Clinton, and a Republican Congress, this initiative, SCHIP, State Children's Health Insurance Program, became the law of the land; and God bless that bipartisan effort for making that possible for the health of our children. 
   So Senator Hatch was very much a part of putting this legislation together, and the gentlemen are right, this is largely a Senate initiative. Senator Grassley, the former Chair of the Finance Committee from Iowa, also a distinguished Republican Member of the United States Senate, has worked harder than anyone to make this the law of the land again, to reauthorize this SCHIP, this children's health initiative, by his intellect, and helped shaping the bill, by his persuasion in talking to Members, including his persuasion of many of us who had a far different bill in mind but agreed to the compromises that he has put forth for the good of the children. 
   That bill was vetoed. The original bill was vetoed by the President, as we all know. The veto was not overridden. So here we are again with another SCHIP in the image of the bill that received all of the attention before, but improved upon by suggestions made by our colleagues in the minority, our Republican colleagues. 
   It wasn't that these issues weren't covered in the bill; but the clarity sought by the Republicans, and agreed to by all of us, I think are a definite improvement on the bill, and these fall into three areas. 
   First, there was the question of the now-famous unlimited amount of wealth that a person could have in order to be able to avail themselves of SCHIP. I hesitate to even repeat the charge because it was so untrue and was known to be untrue, because none of the waivers for such action were ever given by President Bush. 
   So that factual statement did not exist, but in any event, the fact is now and I thank our Republican colleagues for insisting upon the clarity that says no one making over 300 percent of poverty, no State can allow people to receive the benefits of SCHIP. So there's a cap, a 300 percent of poverty, as to who may receive the benefit. 
   Secondly, the question of undocumented, those people who are in our country but have not been here that length of time that would qualify. So the undocumented are one category, and the undocumented are not allowed to receive benefits from this initiative. It was clear in the first bill. It's even clearer in the second bill. 
   So the cap on who can receive it, stronger language as to undocumented, and, third, the issue of adults. Adults were in the program because people thought as a lure to families they could get children in the program. Republicans objected to that. There was an exaggeration of the number of adults who are in the program; but, nonetheless, in the interests of the children the new legislation contains a provision that adults, under one circumstance, will be phased out in 2 years and, in another circumstance, in 1 year, so that it's a faster, faster removal of adults from the system. 
   As a mother of five, though, I have to insist that Governors still be allowed to provide health care to pregnant women because we cannot talk about the health of our children, especially getting one out to the earliest, healthiest start, unless we talk about the health of pregnant women. 
   So, again, three areas: the cap, 300 percent; no illegal aliens, to use your term, I prefer undocumented, are able to get benefits; and adults are phased out of the program. The adults were only in the program because the Bush administration gave the waiver to enable them to be in the program; but, nonetheless, that is now out of the question. 
   So we have this opportunity, once again, for this Congress to speak and vote in support of children. This is so important. It's a very positive day for me because when people ask me what are the three most important issues facing the Congress, I always say the same thing--our children, our children, our children: their health, the education, the economic security of their families, a safe and healthy environment in which they can thrive, and a world at peace in which they can reach their fulfillment. 
   And on every one of those scores, this Congress has acted in a strong bipartisan way on behalf of the children. The health, we're talking about today. The education, this Congress in a strong bipartisan way passed the biggest package for college affordability since the GI Bill of Rights was signed by Franklin Roosevelt in 1944, over 60 years ago, and this Congress said we are standing with the children in terms of expanding their opportunity. 
   The health today, the education and many other educational initiatives. I point that one out because it's a start. The economic security of their families, this Congress voted in a very strong bipartisan way to raise the minimum wage, the first time it was raised in 10 years, and with a strong bipartisan vote. 
   Also, in a very strong bipartisan vote, we voted for the Innovation Agenda, the COMPETES Act, our commitment to competitiveness to keep America number one, keep good-paying jobs and businesses in the United States, helping the economic security of our families. 
   And then the environment in which they live, again in a strong bipartisan way, we passed legislation to make the air they breathe, the water they drink cleaner. All of this was done, again strong bipartisan votes, highest ethical standard, no new deficit spending, all of it so that none of the advantages that we were conveying to children would be accompanied with a bill heaping mountains of debt onto them into the future. 
   Part of that also was to operate in the most honest and open way. In a strong bipartisan way, we passed our ethics reform bill so that we are here for the children's interest and not special interests. 
   So this Congress this year has had a strong bipartisan record in support of our children, and I thank both the Republicans and the Democrats for supporting those initiatives. Almost all of that except this SCHIP has been signed into law by the President of the United States. 
   Some mention has been made about the fact that there is a fire in California, and as one who has had the privilege of representing the great Golden State of California for 20 years in the Congress, one who understands we had an earthquake in San Francisco, an earthquake in Los Angeles and now these disastrous fires, we all understand how important it is for Members to be at home with their constituents at a time of a natural disaster, a time of tragedy. But that doesn't mean we don't continue with the work of government. 
   As Mr. Taylor so eloquently said earlier, he was with his constituents in Mississippi while we passed legislation that affected those people here in the Congress, and that was the appropriate way to go. It was then; it is now. 
   As a matter of fact, I spoke to Governor Schwarzenegger the other day and acknowledged his leadership and the rapid response of the California emergency services team, which is the gold standard, a model for the country. I wanted to find out from him what needs he had from the Federal Government. At the time we had emergency designation. Now we have a major disaster designation by the President, and I salute the President for making that designation, and I thank him for visiting California today. 
   According to Governor Schwarzenegger, all of the Federal resources that are available to those affected by the disaster, those resources are accessible to those who can help people with that, but we will be taking a bipartisan delegation of appropriators and others who can help meet their needs and get a better picture of what's on the ground there after the fire subsides. 
   So this is something that is a very high priority for this Speaker of the House, the first Californian to ever serve as Speaker, with great love for our great State.     
   The Governor in that conversation then said, How are we doing on SCHIP? He told me of the calls that he had made, and how important it was to pass this legislation. That's why we are here today. 
   This is important not only to California's children, but children across the country. The Governor knows a million people have been displaced in California in this natural disaster, and 1.2 million in California will benefit from  this SCHIP bill that we are passing in the Congress today. The Governor understands that. He has been a strong supporter of it, and he is helping us to pass this legislation, recognizing that we have to get the job done. Again, I salute him for his leadership, and I thank him for his support on SCHIP. 
   Earlier this year under the chairmanship of George Miller, Congressman Chaka Fattah and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro we had a summit, a children's summit, where we had hundreds of scientists from all over the country who came and spoke about our children again, their health, their education, housing, really, every aspect of their lives. One of the people who spoke there was Dr. James Heckman, who is a Nobel laureate, received the Nobel Prize for his work on economics. He is the Director of the Center for Social Program Evaluation, Harris School of Public Policy at the University of Chicago. 
   What he said that day was that the accident of birth is the greatest source of inequality in American society. He said, a good public policy for our children makes good economic sense. That is from an economist. 
   I know, as a mom and a grandmother that it makes good sense to care for the health of our children. Our Members, I am sure, across the aisle and all of us here know how important the health of our children is. People across America have understood it. 
   Easter Seals was here last week to advocate for this legislation. The March of Dimes was here on the day of the vote last week to advocate for this SCHIP legislation. Every organization from AARP and the AMA, the American Medical Association, to YWCA and everything in between alphabetically, Catholic Hospitals Association, Families USA, are out there beating the drum for the passage of this legislation. 
   Imagine Easter Seals and March of Dimes, within 1 week, both sending hundreds of people to Capitol Hill to lobby for this legislation. It was astounding. 
   I hope today, when our colleagues have to make a decision about this vote, that they will be thinking about the record of bipartisanship on behalf of America's children and families that this Congress already has. Sometimes it is eclipsed by the disagreement that we have on the war, but it is a fine record, and it is stronger because it is bipartisan. 
   I hope that our colleagues will be thinking about the children. Some of these little children, one of them, Zeke Taylor, he wasn't a beneficiary of SCHIP. March of Dimes helped him through his early years when he needed health care. But he wanted other children to have that, because he, at age 8 years old, as the ambassador for the March of Dimes, knew that it was important to him and, therefore, it was important to other children as well. 
   As my colleagues, we are pretty blessed, when you think of it. Think of those of us who will be voting today. We all have health insurance for our children. In my case, it's grandchildren. My children are grown, so it's not a question of that. But you who have children who are still, God bless you, I am so jealous, have your children home, you have health insurance for your children. 
   The people we are trying to reach with this health insurance can't afford it. By the way, nearly, over 90 percent of them make one-fifth of what a Member of Congress makes, one-fifth of what a Member of Congress makes. So we are talking about people who are playing by the rules who are working to lift themselves into the middle class or to sustain their place in the middle class. 
   We are talking about a country who has not as an issue, not as a piece of legislation, but a deeply held value, an ethic, that to be a great Nation we have to take care of the health of our children. It should almost go without saying, but it doesn't, and we need the public policy, as Dr. Heckman said, good public policy for our children. We say it is necessary for their health and well-being. He also says that it is essential to our economy. 
   So there is every compassionate, humanitarian, motherly, fatherly, family reason to be for this legislation, but it also makes good economic sense. By the way, it also makes good national security sense. 
   Again, we have had our moment. We are like a family here. We have had our moments. It's time to put the children first. 
   I urge all of you to support this legislation that is before us for America's children, for all of America's children, to take our country in a new direction for them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2007--VETO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES -- (House of Representatives - October 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Thank you, Madam Speaker. I thank the gentleman for yielding. I commend him for his exceptional leadership on this issue. 
   The issue of health care for Americans has been a signature issue for the Dingell family. Mr. Dingell, the distinguished chairman's father, was the author of legislation for access to health care for all Americans. He continues that tradition. He was in the chair the day and gaveled the vote on Medicare. So thank you for your years of experience and leadership, and, again, your leadership on this important issue of insuring our children. 
   This isn't about an issue; this is about a value. Thank you, Mr. Stark, thank you, Mr. Pallone, for your leadership, and thanks to the distinguished Chair of the Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Rangel, for his important and relentless leadership on this issue. 
   My colleagues, as I listen to the debate today, I hear a lot of subterfuge and distractions; but the fact is that this is a discussion about America's children and it is a discussion about America. There is no industrialized country in the world that anyone respects that does not provide health insurance for its children. We are the exception. This is not a designation to be proud of. 
   But the American people in their wisdom have this not as an issue, but as a value, as an ethic. That is why I am so proud of what has transpired since we took our first vote on this bill. That day I said we could establish ourselves as ``the Children's Congress,'' and we did. Work remains to be done to bring that to fruition. 
   In the meantime, across our country, Democrats and Republicans, Governors and mayors, people who work with children or have the responsibility of delivering a system of health care have been advocating for this reauthorization of SCHIP that we have before us today. Every organization you can name, from AARP to YWCA, and everything in between, the American Medical Association, Catholic Hospital Association, Families USA, every organization you can name is supporting this legislation. 
   I am so proud, because earlier this week Easter Seals representatives covered the Hill with hundreds of advocates visiting Members' offices. We were pleased to hear from the president of Easter Seals, President James Williams, who said, ``Without health care coverage, our early intervention in other programs for children cannot be successful.'' That is why the Easter Seals organization was here.     
   He was very eloquent in his advocacy, but no more eloquent than the young children who were here to tell us their stories. 
   Today, representatives of the March of Dimes, over 400 of them, are visiting offices on Capitol Hill. And Jennifer Howse, president of the March of Dimes, has stated that SCHIP ``is the health insurance lifeline for millions of low-income children who have no other way to obtain coverage.'' 
   Our country has put poor children first; that's called Medicaid. The poorest of the poor children in our country are able to receive health care through Medicaid. 
   I wish you could have heard the stories of some of the parents who told us, Bethany's parents who were in the other day. The press asked them if they were afraid their family would come under attack because they were lobbying for SCHIP. They said we are already under attack, but we are proud to come forward to support this initiative. We are not proud of the fact that we are low income, they said. We are trying very hard to lift ourselves up into the middle class. We work very hard not to be on Medicaid, but to be among the working poor, it is not something that we brag about, but SCHIP is something that we need. 
   So when the President wants to have 4 or 5 million children instead of 10 million children in his initiative, is he the one, the decider, who wants to go to that family and say, Your child is out? Bethany had heart problems from birth. She was 2 years old in July. They have been told by some people as they lobbied, The baby is better now; you don't need SCHIP anymore. Well, she does. 
   They said, We are not just lobbying for Bethany; we are lobbying for all of the children. 
   As far as the March of Dimes is concerned, and I am proudly wearing their pin, they deal with children with birth defects, and it might interest you to know that one of eight children in America each year is born prematurely, around half a million babies born prematurely. Many of those children, I am not saying all, but many of those children have ongoing conditions and preconditions that bar them from  getting any health insurance. Those children need SCHIP. They are in the category that makes them eligible. 
   And that category does not include people earning $83,000 a year. So while some of you may use that as an excuse not to vote for the program, I hope you know intellectually it is not a reason to vote against this initiative. There are currently no children enrolled in SCHIP with family income of 400 percent of the Federal poverty level, $83,000 for a family of four. In fact, 91.3 percent of the children enrolled in SCHIP are in families of four that make less than 200 percent of poverty. And 99.95 percent, just a hair under 100 percent of them, are in families under 300 percent of poverty. 
   So this is a sad thing. We are asking people who are working hard and playing by the rules, they are taking care of their families. They could have stayed out of work and stayed on Medicaid, but that is not what we are encouraging people to do in our country. We are encouraging them to move on and upward. And these families have to come forward and say why they have not attained the American Dream of enough wealth to afford $1,200 a month in health insurance premiums, and that's a big order. 
   I am so pleased, though, that with the work they have done, Easter Seals, Red Cross and all of the organizations I mentioned earlier, and the Governors and mayors, et cetera, that now 82 percent of the American people support this initiative. If I said it before, I want to say it again. 
   And let me also say that there are some myths about SCHIP. Well, I don't think that they are myths; I think they are excuses not to vote for the bill. I mentioned one of them. Another one is about illegal aliens. 
   Clearly, the bill states ``no Federal funding for illegal aliens.'' It says it, but it is also the law of the land. Illegal aliens do not get benefits, so don't use that as an excuse to deprive 10 million children in our country who are eligible for enrollment in SCHIP that they shouldn't get it. 
   This has been a bipartisan effort, and some of what has been said about SCHIP is simply not true. But don't take it from me. Senator ORRIN HATCH, former Chair of the Health Committee in the Senate, now the ranking member, said: ``I believe that some have given the President bad advice on this matter because I believe supporting this bipartisan compromise to provide health coverage to low-income children is the morally right thing to do. If we were truly compassionate, it seems to me, we would endorse this program.'' Senator ORRIN HATCH, Republican of Utah. 
   Senator CHARLES GRASSLEY, former chairman of the Finance Committee, another committee of jurisdiction and now the ranking member said: ``The President's claims about SCHIP are flatly incorrect. The SCHIP bill is not a government takeover of health care. Screaming `socialized medicine' during a health care debate is like screaming `fire' in a crowded theater. It is intended to cause hysteria that diverts people from looking at the facts.'' Senator Grassley, Republican Senator from Iowa. 
   So, my colleagues, we have a decision today to override the President's veto, which would be, in my view, the right thing to do for our children and for our country. It is not about compassion. It is about fairness. It is about fairness. And this is a bill again that has been bipartisan in its development and required enormous sacrifice from the Democrats in the House of Representatives. We had a much higher goal. This is what is achievable for the children. It should have been signed by the President. There is no reason that he has given that is consistent with the facts. 
   And so I urge my colleagues to think about the children, to think about Bethany and think about a little boy, Zeke, who was in my office this morning. He is the ambassador of the March of Dimes for 2007. He is 8 years old, born prematurely at a pound and a half, and now going out and speaking on behalf of the needs of other children. 
   The President is isolated in this. Don't join him in his isolation. Come forward on behalf of the children and let's truly send a signal that we are about the future. I tried to do that when I was sworn in by being surrounded by children. It was a spontaneous moment, but it was one that was clear in its message: We are gaveling this House to order on behalf of the children. 
   There is nothing more important that we have to do in our work than make sure that our children are healthy and safe. Today we have an opportunity to do that. Let's not miss that opportunity. Let's give a vote for the children and against the President's veto.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CELEBRATING THE ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF TITLE IX OF THE EDUCATION AMENDMENTS OF 1972 AND RECOGNIZING THE NEED TO CONTINUE PURSUING EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS -- (House of Representatives - June 18, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, today I join with my colleagues to celebrate the 35th anniversary of title IX of the Higher Education Act, which assured a woman's right to educational equality. And I thank Congresswoman Hirono for bringing this resolution to the floor and for her leadership on this issue. 
   By ending gender discrimination in all education programs, title IX has given women the chance to excel and to take their rightful place as leaders and achievers on campuses across the United States. No longer would young women find their educational options limited by years of engrained discrimination. Thanks to title IX, women can now prepare for their future--whether in the halls of power or corporate boardrooms--in the classrooms and on the playing fields of America's colleges and universities. 
   Today also gives us the opportunity to honor our former colleague, friend, and champion for women's equality--Congresswoman Patsy Mink. As a member of the Education Committee in 1972, Congresswoman Mink helped craft title IX, and engineer its passage. 
   The day that the title IX legislation came to the floor, Congresswoman Mink was called away on a family emergency. She knew it would be a close vote. And she was right. That time, the bill was defeated by only a single vote. But Patsy fought on. Through sheer force of will, Congresswoman Mink forced another vote, an uncommon occurrence made possible by a woman of uncommon strength. And that time, women won. Congress passed title IX. 
   For her determination, the women of America will always owe a debt of gratitude to Congresswoman Patsy Mink. 
   As a mother and a grandmother, I have seen firsthand the results of title IX. Some are more visible, like the growing number of girls on soccer fields and basketball courts, the women of the WNBA, or the famous victory of Mia Hamm and Team USA in the World Cup. 
   Equally important, though less tangible, is the message that title IX sends to women and girls: Your education is crucial and your future is limitless. 
   Young women today believe that they can do anything. And they can. 
   For our children, we must continue to support this belief by fulfilling and sustaining the promise of title IX. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (ECONOMIC STIMULUS ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - February 07, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for his kind words and his extraordinary leadership, which made it possible for us to come to the floor with this bipartisan historic legislation tonight. Thank you, Mr. Rangel, for your leadership. And thank you, Mr. McCrery, for yours. It's quite an evening when we can come together in a bipartisan way for legislation that helps the middle class, helps those aspire to the middle class, gives incentives to businesses to create jobs to stimulate our economy. I thank you for that. 
   I acknowledge the leadership of Chairman Barney Frank, chairman of the Financial Services Committee, for his leadership, along with Ranking Member Bachus for his, because those who are concerned about, and that is all of us, the subprime crisis can see some relief in this legislation because of their leadership. 
   I want to acknowledge another member of the Financial Services Committee, Mr. Kanjorski, and salute him for his leadership dropping the bill even before we took this up this evening for seniors and disabled veterans to be getting the recovery rebates as well, as well as clarification of language regarding undocumented persons in our country getting that benefit. Thank you, Mr. Kanjorski, for your leadership. 
   Before I go on too long, I must salute Leader Boehner. It was a privilege to work with him on this. And Mr. Hoyer and I shared a view of our caucus. We came with consensus to the table. None of us got everything we wanted in the legislation, but we did get a great deal for the American people. We did so in a manner that was timely. We were acting in record time, targeted on the  middle class and those who aspire to it, targeted to businesses, tax incentives to businesses to create jobs, and temporary. So these resources and these tax incentives will be used and spent in a way that will have an impact in the economy. 
   I also want to salute Secretary Paulson for his persistence and his leadership and his receptivity, shall we say, and responsiveness to some of the values that the Democrats were putting on the table regarding those who have not participated in receiving a recovery rebate before, but do so in this bill. 
   This was across the aisle, but it is also across the Capitol. We worked it out in record time, again, with Leader Reid and the Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, on the Senate side, so that tonight we could bring this bill to the floor. 
   It was only about 2 1/2 weeks ago that leadership was on the telephone with the President of the United States. He had just returned from his trip to the Middle East. And we talked about what every homemaker in America has known for a long time, that our economy is going into a downturn. We wanted to prevent it from being more of a downturn, and a stimulus was needed. 
   We had heard from Chairman Bernanke about the state of the economy and that a stimulus was needed and that it should have certain features of being timely, targeted, and temporary. And the President, on that phone call, agreed that we should go forward with a stimulus package in record time. The House put it together and sent it over to the Senate. And I'm very, very proud of that. 
   If I boast of it, it's because it's highly unusual that we can respond in such record time. But we did so because it was urgent for the American people. So often they listen in on the debate on the floor of the House which seems irrelevant to their lives. This is very relevant to their lives because there are many firsts in here. 
   For the first time, those who don't make over a certain income are able to participate in the recovery rebates and the child tax credit. In fact, more than 40 million Americans, 40 million families will be receiving those rebates and tax credits who had never received a rebate or a tax refundable child tax credit before. That's just astounding. 
   It was different from the bill the President originally proposed because his proposal did not have a cap, so some of the wealthiest people in America could get this rebate. Instead, we said, God bless them for their success. We need to put this money in the pockets of those who are living paycheck to paycheck, who are finding it hard or struggling to make ends meet with the price of gasoline, the price of groceries, the price of health care, the price of education, anything that you can name, that costs were going up and the purchasing power of their income was not. 
   And so we believe that the stimulus, the way it is targeted, will put money in the hands of those who will spend it immediately, injecting demand into the economy and therefore creating jobs, the impact that we want the stimulus to have. Same thing with the small business incentives. 
   One of the reasons we were able to move so quickly is because we were ready. We were ready. The reason we were ready with the child tax credit is because Congresswoman DeLauro has worked on this issue for her lifetime in Congress. And of course as chairman of the committee, Mr. Rangel has had this as a high priority. So it wasn't something that we had to go create. It's something that we had in our minds and in our hearts to do for a long time. 
   The tax credits, the incentives for small businesses have been a part of the bipartisan support we have in the House for an innovation agenda so that small businesses and medium-size businesses can take advantage in a short period of time of this incentive that they have to invest and to purchase equipment and the rest. Again, for job creation, good-paying jobs here in America. 
   We were ready because the Financial Services Committee, under the leadership of Mr. Barney Frank and Ranking Member Bachus, had already passed these bills on the floor of the House. Not everything in the bill is included in this stimulus, but these bills have passed the House and had been sent over to the Senate. Certain features are contained in this bill so that there is some relief for the subprime crisis. 
   The list goes on and on. But we had our priorities; they have been our priorities for a while. They are particularly essential now in the time of a need of stimulus. So when the time came and the President said he would sign such a bill, we were ready with our priorities. 
   We fought it out. It wasn't an easy fight, but we knew we had to do it in the shortest period of time. And it wasn't easy. And there were some things that I said to the President on the phone when he congratulated us for going forward that I would have liked to have seen in the bill, like unemployment insurance and LIHEAP and food stamps and the rest. But we will take care of those issues in due course. Every bill cannot accomplish every goal that we have. 
   I want to identify myself with the comments that Mr. Bachus made. This is a fiscally sound bill. There were those who wanted to make it larger with elements that were not necessarily stimulus that we resisted, excellent ideas. They should be revisited in another piece of legislation for another day.     
   But we had been cautioned over and over, and we have cautioned each other. And whatever we did in stimulus, even though it would not have to conform with PAYGO, strictly speaking, that it would not be so overloaded that it would be a deterrent to recovery because we would be taking our country more deeply in debt than was justified by our stimulus package for recovery. 
   So, because of all of this cooperation, hopefully, it will serve as a model. I again want to commend Secretary Paulson for his perseverance and his leadership. And we look forward to soon, in a few days, perhaps, the President of the United States signing this bill. But the Secretary has assured us that with the passage of this bill tonight, even before the Presidential signature, the word will go to the IRS to begin the process of getting these checks out to the families. 
   So I think every Member of this body should take great pride in the bipartisanship of it, in the focus of it, the discipline of it, and what it means: that it is relevant to the lives of the American people. A typical middle-income family, a family of four with two children, will get $1,800. Eighteen hundred dollars. I think that that is impressive. And families making less than that, other families, depending on the number of their children, will get a sizable check in the mail. 
   This says to them we respect your contribution to our country, to our economy, to our society, and, even if you don't make a lot of money and pay income tax, that your contribution to our economy is recognized and acknowledging the FICA tax that you pay. And that's why once more I will reiterate that 40 million American families will participate in the recovery rebates to the tune of about $28 billion infused into our economy through their hands. 
   This is a new direction. I urge my colleagues to support it and am proud to be associated with it. And I thank all for their leadership in making it possible this evening. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (RESPONSIBLE REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ ACT -- (House of Representatives - July 12, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Missouri for yielding, and I want to express the appreciation of so many in this Congress and this country to him for his tremendous leadership. For 30 years, he has been a great champion for our men and women in uniform; for the quality of their lives and their families as they serve our country; for their readiness as they prepare to go to war; for their well-being as they fight for our country; for his appreciation of the sacrifice that they and their families are willing to make. 
   Thank you, Mr. Skelton, for being such a great leader, and thank you for giving us this opportunity today to speak on behalf of the American people, to take a step to end the war in Iraq and to have a vision of a strategic plan for stability in the Middle East. 
   Your bill is excellent and your timing, Mr. Skelton, is perfect, because today the Bush administration released a progress report on the Iraq benchmarks required by the supplemental appropriations bill passed in May. The report makes clear that not even the White House can conclude that there has been significant progress on the Warner resolution benchmarks. 
   This is hardly surprising, given what is publicly available each day in the media: truck bombs killing scores of people in the markets; the supposedly secure Green Zone is rocked by a 30-inute mortar and rocket barrage; despite 30,000 additional American troops to increase security, Iraqi leaders are urging their people to arm themselves for their own protection; legislation to make the Iraqi political process more inclusive is stalled in the Iraqi legislature; and the cost of the war in precious lives and wounded American heroes continues to rise. Since the surge began, we have lost nearly 600 American troops. 
   The benchmarks that are being reported on today were endorsed by President Bush and the Government of Iraq to measure political reconciliation and the promotion of security in Iraq. In the 5th year of the war, the President's strategy has failed to meet those key benchmarks. 
   President Bush continues to urge patience, but what is needed and what the American people are demanding is a new direction. Remaining bogged down in a sectarian civil war in Iraq continues an unacceptable strain on our military and serves as an effective recruiting tool for al Qaeda. Reports about the resilience of al Qaeda in Iraq are alarming, but assessments that the global al Qaeda network is reconstituting its capabilities describes a far greater threat. 
   The war is not making our military stronger to protect our interests, the American people safer or the Middle East more secure. It prevents a refocusing of our efforts on the real war on terrorism in places like Afghanistan, and it hinders the development of a new direction strategy for greater stability in the Middle East. 
   As General Batiste has said, ``Iraq is distracting America from what should be the focus of main effort. It is in America's best interests to rethink our national strategy, deliberately disengage from Iraq, refit and rearm our military, get serious about homeland security, and prepare to win the next phase of the struggle against worldwide Islamic extremism.'' 
   The American people see the danger of clinging to an untenable situation in Iraq. That is why by large margins they favor a redeployment of our troops. Passage of Chairman Skelton's bipartisan bill will reflect the will of the American people and reaffirm the judgment of the House that the redeployment of our troops is a central element and an effective way forward in Iraq. 
   We will repeat that judgment legislatively as often as necessary, hopefully with an increasing level of support from our Republican colleagues, until pressure from the American people causes the President to change his mind and his policies. 
   To those who urge that we wait until September, I say that it has been 4 1/2 years and half a trillion dollars, at least. We have already waited too long. The troops in their third and fourth tours in Iraq, those who have been so grievously wounded and the families of those who have died, deserve far better than that. 
   After more than 3,600 lives have been lost to a flawed strategy, we have a responsibility to create a new direction. After spending $329 million every day, $329 million every day on the war in Iraq, on a war that is not making our country safer, we have an obligation to change course. After 5 years of a failed policy in Iraq, we have a duty, not just to voice our opposition, but to vote to end the war. 
   Chairman Skelton's bipartisan bill offers a step we can take today toward bringing the troops home, to creating a strategic vision for stability in the Middle East and for beginning to rearm our military. 
   Let us pass this bill and those that will follow in the coming weeks and provide the new direction on Iraq that the American people demand and that is so urgently needed. I urge a ``yes'' vote on the Skelton bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 1, IMPLEMENTING RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE 9/11 COMMISSION ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I thank him for making us so very, very proud of his chairmanship, Mr. Thompson's chairmanship of this very important committee. Homeland security is as local as our neighborhoods and our front porches and as national as our interests wherever they are threatened throughout the world. 
   I rise today in strong support of this legislation to make the bipartisan independent 9/11 Commission recommendations into law. With this bill, we will be keeping our promises to the families of 9/11. We will be honoring the work of the 9/11 Commission, and we will be making the American people safer. 
   I salute the steadfast leadership of so many of our colleagues; as I mentioned, Chairman Thompson and the distinguished ranking member, Mr. King. Thank you for your leadership, Mr. King, as well. I also want to acknowledge Chairmen LANTOS, DINGELL, CONYERS, OBERSTAR, SKELTON, MARKEY and NADLER, who played an important role in the conference report, as well as all of your ranking members, Mr. King, on the Republican side. 
   Mr. Speaker, 3 years ago this week the bipartisan and independent 9/11 Commission released its report outlining urgent and achievable recommendations for securing our Nation. Under the outstanding leadership of Chairman Tom Kean and Vice Chair Lee Hamilton, the 9/11 Commission presented a road map to protect the American people from terrorism. 
   In assuming power, Democrats promised a new direction for America, and nowhere was that new direction more critical than ensuring the safety of the American people. That is why on the very first day of the new Congress, our very first legislative act was to pass H.R. 1, the 9/11 Commission recommendations. It was our highest priority, to make the American people safer, and we passed it on the first day in our first legislative act. 
   Today we will pass the final version of this bipartisan bill. We will send it to the President for his signature which we expect he will apply to it. And when we do, we will have done in 6 months what previous Congresses failed to do in nearly 6 years. 
   We could not have accomplished this without the courage and determination of those whose loved ones were lost on September 11. The families of 9/11 turned their grief into strength and advocacy, and that made America safer. 
   Implementing the recommendations will fundamentally change the way the President and the Congress deal with matters related to terrorism, making us more unified and more effective. This is because this bill closes loopholes and weaknesses that terrorists seek to exploit and that leave Americans vulnerable. 
   I know others have addressed these, but in commending the committee in a bipartisan way, I want to highlight some of the important things that make America safer. 
   Federal funding for homeland security will now be focused on those parts of the country that are at the greatest risk. By securing loose nuclear material abroad, this bill will help prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction. That is a very, very important issue. 
   Our bill requires that 100 percent of shipping containers be scanned and sealed abroad before they ever reach our shores and move through our waterways and across the country. Mr. Nadler, thank you for your exceptional leadership and your persistence on this matter. 9/11 occurred in your district, and you have been a relentless advocate for safety for all Americans. 
   It also requires the screening of 100 percent of cargo on our passenger aircraft, a provision again relentlessly pursued by Congressman Markey. 
   We know that lives were lost on 9/11 because our first responders were not able to communicate with each other in real-time. This bill makes a $1.6 billion investment in the equipment for our fire fighters, police and other emergency personnel, the equipment they need to communicate with each other more effectively to protect us and for them to protect each other. 
   These are just but a few provisions of the bill. Others have referenced a more extensive list; each of them is very important. 
   Mr. Speaker, as we learned in the National Intelligence Estimate released last week, the threat of terrorist violence against the United States is growing. Al Qaeda is gaining strength, and Osama bin Laden continues to elude capture. There is not a moment to spare to take the steps necessary to keep the American people safe. 
   With this bill, we are honoring our solemn responsibility to protect and defend the American people. We take that as our oath of office, to protect the Constitution and, in the preamble, to provide for the common defense as a major charge to us. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and the President to sign it. 
   I thank my colleagues again, Mr. Thompson and Mr. King, for bringing this legislation to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (FARM, NUTRITION, AND BIOENERGY ACT OF 2007 -- (House of Representatives - July 27, 2007))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman, the distinguished chairman of the Agriculture Committee for yielding, and I want to congratulate him for this achievement for bringing this important bill to the floor. 
   I rise to tell you why I am supporting this legislation. Before I do though, I want to commend the exceptional leadership of our colleague, Ron Kind, for his work over the years in helping to move us to a place where this farm bill, called the Farm, Nutrition and Bioenergy bill, looks quite different than the bill would have looked without his persistent and brilliant advocacy for conservation issues that are included in the bill. I think that he has moved this Congress and this legislation to a very important place that signals change and shows a new direction in our farm policy.     
   I support the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act because it begins to reform farm policy while investing in energy independence, supporting conservation, strengthening nutrition assistance, and recognizing the importance of specialty crops. That means fruits and vegetables. It recognizes the vital role of our farmers and ranchers in providing food, fiber, and fuel for America and the world. 
   It was a big effort to bring this legislation to the floor. I acknowledge the achievements and the great work of the distinguished chairman. I want to acknowledge Congresswoman Louise Slaughter, the Chair of the Rules Committee, who had to be available very late and very early in the morning to make this discussion possible. I want to commend Chairman Rangel of the Ways and Means Committee and Congressman Lloyd Doggett for their leadership in helping to pay for this bill because this bill has all along, in all of its formation, been intended to be a bipartisan bill, which we had hoped it would be, a bill that met the needs of the American people and that is paid for. And paid for it is, indeed. 
   I strongly support the efforts Chairman Peterson has made in this bill to ensure that America's family farmers fuel America's energy independence. Because of this legislation we will be sending America's energy dollars to the Midwest, not to the Middle East. 
   The 2007 Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act makes an historic $2.4 billion investment in renewable energy, including biofuels and wind power. It boosts renewable energy investments by 600 percent and provides loan guarantees for the development of refineries that process renewable fuels. These efforts will ensure that, again, we send our energy dollars to the Midwest and across America, not to the Middle East and across the sea. 
   Energy independence is a national security issue, it is an environmental issue, it is an economic issue for our Nation and America's families. Thanks to this bill, it will also be an economic opportunity for America's farmers. It will create a rural renaissance that will reenergize farm country and create new businesses and good-paying jobs in rural America. 
   I have seen that firsthand. It has already begun. It is an important initiative that is supported and endorsed in this legislation. 
   So, reason number one, why I am supporting this bill, is energy independence. Not in order of priority but in order of mention. 
   Next, conservation: the farm bill recognizes that those who work the land, America's farmers and ranchers, are also stewards of the land. 
   In the area of conservation, the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy bill improves access to, and funding for, initiatives to take environmentally sensitive land out of production. It encourages environmentally friendly practices on working lands. And it will invest $4.3 billion in new mandatory spending to preserve farm and ranchland, improve water quality, enhance soil conservation, air quality, and wildlife habitats on working lands. 
   Again I commend Congressman Ron Kind for his exceptional work on the conservation issue over time. 
   The issue of nutrition, of course, is fundamental to all of the people of our country. And as a mother, I take special interest in the nutrition aspects of this bill. I want to commend the committee, Democrats and Republicans, our chairman; and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, the chairman of the Ag Subcommittee of Appropriations, who worked very hard to get the most money, made mandatory, and paid for in this legislation. 
   In the effort of feeding the people, and many of them in need, the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy bill invests over $11 billion over 10 years in nutrition initiatives to help low-income families. For the first time in 30 years, thank you, Mr. Peterson, for the first time in 30 years, the bill increases the minimum food stamp benefit and increases and indexes to inflation the standard deduction, ensuring that rising food costs do not erode a family's purchasing power. It also eliminates the cap on child care costs to help the working poor, because in order to get the food stamps, you could only spend so much money on child care. What a self-defeating policy. This bill corrects that. The food stamp provisions in this bill will prevent benefit cuts for more than 13 million working Americans over the next 5 years. 
   That is why the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, Catholic Charities USA, America's Second Harvest, and the Food Research and Action Center all support the nutrition funding contained in this bill. 
   In addition to recognizing Chairwoman Rosa DeLauro's exceptional work in this area, I want to recognize Congressman Jim McGovern for his work in ensuring that the McGovern-Dole legislation, no relation, just a coincidence, Jim McGovern is not the McGovern in the McGovern-Dole. That would be George McGovern and Senator Dole, former Republican leader of the Senate Dole. Their initiative for the international food programs, which help American farmers and farmers in other parts of the world, is a very important way for America to protect our friendship and our values to the rest of the world. In this legislation, the McGovern-Dole initiative is mandatory, and it is funded to $890 million, a big increase, and paid for. 
   As a Californian, I take special interest also that the bill makes a historic investment in specialty crops, providing $1.7 billion in new mandatory spending. This investment was made possible by the leadership of Congressman Dennis Cardoza. And many provisions in his bill, the EAT Healthy America Act, which is a very important bill for us, EAT Healthy America Act, were incorporated in this bill that is before us today. 
   This legislation supports specialty crops, that is, fruits and vegetables, by increasing market access, encouraging and facilitating consumption of nutritious agricultural products, funding research initiatives and increasing opportunities for family farmers in conservation initiatives. 
   Specifically, just so you know what falls under this, the bill invests $365 million for Specialty Crop Block Grants; $350 million to expand the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable School Snack Program to all 50 States, and I repeat that, $350 million to expand the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable School Snack Program to all 50 States; $215 million to create a new dedicated research initiative for specialty crops; $200 million to create a new initiative for early detection, prevention, and eradication of emerging pests and disease; $55 million for organic agriculture. 
   What is important about all of this is many of these resources will be invested in the Northeast, in the Middle Atlantic States, in the Northwest and California, where agriculture is a very important part of the economy but where not very much attention had been paid in the past in the farm bills. This is a big change and signals a new direction in this farm bill. 
   Specialty crop producers, our fruit and vegetable growers, account for nearly half of all cash crop receipts in America and are a part of the farm economy in all 50 States, as I mentioned, especially important, California, the Northeast, Northwest, and Florida. 
   I mentioned that I was a Californian. I was also born in Maryland; so I know the importance of the Chesapeake Bay, and I salute the chairman for the initiative in here in support of the Chesapeake Bay. I see my colleague Majority Leader Hoyer nodding his head in agreement. But I want to acknowledge Chairman Chris Van Hollen, for whom this has been a priority since he came  to Congress, and now he has been joined by John Sarbanes in support of this. And I know it has bipartisan support because Congressman Gilchrest supports these initiatives as well. 
   From Monterey Bay across the country to the Chesapeake Bay, this bill represents a new direction. Let me just say that is why this bill is supported by the Specialty Crop Farm Bill Alliance, a national coalition of more than 120 specialty crop organizations. 
   Before I leave that point, I want to talk about food safety. One of the reasons that many of us are in politics, and I know many moms come to politics, is for our having a safer, clean environment for our children. Clean air, clean water, food safety, these are things we can't do for them, but we depend on public policy to do; and the initiatives in this legislation for food safety are important. They will be greatly enhanced by the legislation put forth next week by the Appropriations subcommittee Chair, Congresswoman DeLauro, in her appropriations bill. But the bills are very compatible in that respect. 
   The farm bill also includes key provisions that invest in rural communities, including economic development initiatives and access to broadband telecommunications services to bridge the digital divide in rural, underserved areas. It also addresses health care, emergency, and first responder needs of rural areas, as well as creating new markets and rebuilding rural infrastructure. 
   And it pays special attention to the area of minority outreach and socially disadvantaged farmers by including an additional $150 million, all paid for, to provide greater outreach, coordination, and technical assistance. 
   Finally, this bill takes a critical step toward reform by eliminating farm payments to millionaires and closing loopholes that for decades have allowed some to evade the payment limits. More needs to be done, but we have gone in the right direction for change and for reform. 
   As I said before, this legislation is paid for. And that is a very, very important part of this. It is part of our PAYGO, no-new-deficit spending. It was a challenge. It has been met. And it has been met in a way that meets our values. 
   The Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act will ensure that future farm bills will never look the same as those of the past. I see one of the co-Chairs of our Rural Working Group here, very important, who is putting forth the initiative on energy independence for rural America, Congresswoman Stephanie Herseth Sandlin. I thank you for your leadership in that regard. And thanks as well to the efforts of Chairman Peterson and many others who have made an historic investment in energy independence and nutrition assistance. This bill's effects will also be felt far from farm country. 
   As George Washington said: ``I know of no pursuit in which more real and important services can be rendered to any country than by improving its agriculture ..... '' That is as true now and it was then. President Washington understood, as this bill's authors understand, that encouraging and investing in American agriculture pays dividends to the entire Nation. In this legislation we will strengthen America's agriculture, but we also will do much more. We will help reignite rural America's economic engine and create good-paying jobs and create good businesses here at home. We will fuel a Nation's energy needs through clean, American-made renewable energy. We will be better stewards of the land and protect our environment. And, by the way, we hope to do much more in that regard when we go to conference. And we will be a more caring Nation by better meeting the needs of the most vulnerable. 
   Those great goals can be achieved with the help of this legislation and with the strong bipartisan support of the House today. 
   I just wanted to take a few minutes to tell you why I am supporting the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act. And, once again, I salute the distinguished chairman for this achievement.     
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (HOUSING AND ECONOMIC RECOVERY ACT OF 2008 -- (House of Representatives - July 23, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. I thank the gentleman for yielding and I thank him for the great intelligence, brilliance, and eloquence that he has brought to this very important debate for the American people. I want to thank him, as Chair of the Financial Services Committee, for his tremendous leadership. I also want to commend Congresswoman MAXINE WATERS as Chair of the Subcommittee on Housing, and acknowledge the excellent work of Chairman CHARLIE RANGEL on the Ways and Means Committee, without whose leadership we would not be here today, and also subcommittee Chair RICHIE NEAL for his extraordinary leadership. 
   Mr. Speaker, I had hoped that this legislation would have been the product of much more bipartisanship, and it seems that it has been between the White House and the Democrats in the Congress. As a fan of Congressman SPENCER BACHUS, I also want to acknowledge him. We have some areas of disagreement here, but I'm pleased that we are able to move forward. 
   Mr. Rangel, Mr. Frank, Mr. Neal, and Chairwoman Waters have brought us a comprehensive package on housing policy reforms that will lift families facing foreclosure and stem the continuing drop in home values across the country. 
   I also wish to acknowledge the contributions of Secretary Paulson. Treasury Secretary Paulson played a constructive role and helped the President reach this agreement after opposing many parts of this legislation. I'm so pleased that the White House issued a statement that the President would not veto this bill. 
   Under Chairman Frank's leadership, the House last year, just 3 months after Democrats took the majority, in the spring of last year, this House of Representatives passed a bill very similar to the one the House is voting on today, and the administration said that it will not oppose. But at the  time, we had trouble getting from the passage of the bill. Mr. Frank and members of the committee, Chairwoman Waters, foresaw, they knew there was a need for legislation. They passed legislation similar to this 15 months ago only 3 months after Democrats took power. 
   Again in May of this year, the House passed virtually an identical GSE reform bill as part of a broader comprehensive package to address the crisis in our housing market. Also in January, in discussion over the economic stimulus package, we proposed inclusion of both the GSE reform bill and the FHA reform bill that are now in this package. Unfortunately, we could not get agreement on that. 
   The bill that the House takes up today, if enacted, will represent the most far-reaching reform of our nation's Federal housing finance system in a generation. Chairman Frank had the foresight to build a bipartisan consensus around the bill that addresses the difficult challenges in our housing markets and communities across America. To help American families avoid foreclosure and jump-start the housing market, this legislation first steers middle class families away from predatory subprime loans and provides them with affordable mortgages; shields middle class borrowers from predatory lending practices and provides foreclosure avoidance counseling opportunities; protects taxpayers, not speculators, by requiring lenders and homeowners to take responsibility; and it offers tax breaks to first-time home buyers. 
   In this bill we are also ensuring that legislation increases the stock of affordable housing by preserving affordable rental housing for seniors and other populations in communities across America; provides tax incentives for the production of rental housing for low-income populations. 
   So while all of the attention is on the GSEs, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the rest, I wanted to be sure that people understood what was happening to help working families in America. 
   I would have liked to have seen a seller-financed down payment provision that would help low- and moderate-income families achieve homeownership, and I hope that that issue will be revisited in future legislation. I would also hope that we can review carefully what the most appropriate government structure is to oversee the GSE, including the Federal home loan banks. The Federal home loan banks were not part of the problem, and I know they have some concern about whether a single individual, an executive director or a governing board would provide better governed insight. I think it would be important for us to review this. 
   On the subject of our veterans, this legislation, and thanking Mr. Frank, is also helping returning veterans achieve the dream of homeownership by increasing the VA home loan limit for veterans in high-cost areas. I'm so proud of that. It is extending the length of time veterans are protected from foreclosure upon their return from service from 3 months to 1 year. 
   The bill does many, many other things, too numerous to mention here, but suffice it to say that we are addressing a crisis of historic proportions, and the bill protects the futures of our families and their housing. 
   Having just returned from the gulf coast region, I would also like to note the significant contributions to this bill of two of our newest Members of the House, both of whom hail from the gulf area, DON CAZAYOUX from Louisiana and TRAVIS CHILDERS from Mississippi. Congressman Cazayoux and Congressman Childers sponsored legislation cutting red tape at HUD so that public housing facilities can receive swift assistance from FEMA after a natural disaster. Their legislation also authorizes funds to combat violent crime on or near the premises of public or federally assisted housing facilities. Their achievement is a testament to their diligence and dedication in representing their districts. 
   As this bill was going forward, I just might say about 2 weeks ago around this time we thought we had a mortgage foreclosure housing bill that we would bring to the floor. It was then that we heard that following weekend, a week-and-a-half ago, from Secretary Paulson that the GSE language provisions needed to be in this bill. That made a drastic change in the legislation making it a much bigger package. 
   While we all understand that the last thing our economy needs is for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac not to be able to make loans and we go forward giving confidence to the markets that Congress will act and the system should be trusted for what Congress is saying about this, I think down the road a bit we should review the hybrid nature of Fannie and Freddie. I know that this bill gives authority to review the compensation of the executives of those institutions, and I think that's very important. 
   Owning a home is an essential part of the American dream. It's not only about what it means to individuals, it is what it means to the community, putting down roots. It's what it means to the economy as we take an interest in our homes and make them habitable. By expanding homeownership opportunities and protecting families against foreclosure, we are helping to keep the American dream of homeownership alive by restoring confidence in the housing market. Our economy can begin to grow and create jobs for the American people again. 
   For this reason, I don't think we could have been better served than by the tremendous leadership and knowledge and perception of the distinguished chairman of the committee, BARNEY FRANK. I thank you for your leadership once again, Mr. Frank, and by the relentless persistence of Congresswoman MAXINE WATERS on behalf of low-income people and homeowners and renters in our country. Thank you for your leadership. 
   Thanks to Mr. Rangel as well. It seems like every bill we're thanking Mr. Rangel because he has such an important part of it. He has so much knowledge of the process, stamina, and working on legislation day in and day out, we're deeply in his debt, and in this case, he was well and ably served by Congressman RICHIE NEAL.  
   Again, this is a major accomplishment for the Congress. I'm glad it's being done in a bipartisan way with the Congress and the administration and hope that it will be signed into law this week. 
   Thank you again, Mr. Frank. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (RELATING TO THE CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5724, UNITED STATES-COLOMBIA TRADE PROMOTION AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlelady for yielding, and I commend her for her very distinguished leadership of the Rules Committee and for bringing this very important rule to the floor today. 
   Mr. Speaker, the reason we are here today is one I wish could have been avoided, and I think it is important to put it in context because I have heard our colleagues talk about the merits of the bill or talk about any precedent on rules, and I have heard them talk about different things. But I think it is important to know what brought us here today. 
   On Monday, I received a call from the President of the United States, always an honor to receive a call from the President. This is after months of our going back and forth with members of the cabinet and the rest about when and if they would send up the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. The President informed me that he would be sending the bill over the next day. 
   I recommended against it. I said, Mr. President, you shouldn't send it for  two reasons. If you send it and we take it up, it will lose. Now you think it is very important to pass a Colombia free trade agreement, and in the Congress we have people who share your view. And we have others who share your view that we should pass it as soon as we address the concerns of America's working people, and others who will never be for it. But let's talk about what the possibilities are for passing it, and those possibilities are greatly diminished if you send that bill to the Congress under these circumstances. 
   Apart from the fact that it would be a breach of protocol, and let's just talk about that. A successful trade agenda depends on joint partnership between the Congress and the administration, as was the case recently in the Peru Free Trade Agreement. Had the administration followed the established protocol of congressional consultation relating to the submission of any free trade agreement, we would not have to take this action today. 
   By his actions on Tuesday, the President abandoned the traditions of consultation that have governed past agreement. In fact, the action the House takes today is more in keeping with the spirit of the rules than the White House's move to force a vote.     
   But, as I said, just from a practical standpoint, Mr. President, you simply don't have the votes. And if we are to try to arrive at a place where the concerns of the American people are addressed, we need more time to do that. 
   I also said what I have said many times to the President. If we are going to be successful in passing a trade agreement, we have to first tell the Americans people that we have a positive economic agenda that addresses their aspirations, addresses their concerns about their economic security. 
   This bill's been around for a while, and matters have only gotten worse in our economy. The former Chair of the Fed has said we're in the throes of a recession. The current Chair of the Federal Reserve last week, the end of last week, testified to Congress that there's a possible recession. 
   Many people, I mean, the joblessness numbers of last week, again pointed to a steeper downturn in our economy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (RELATING TO THE CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5724, UNITED STATES-COLOMBIA TRADE PROMOTION AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. No. You control your time. With all due respect to the gentleman, I'll use mine. 
   The fact is, as I said to the President, many people in America now are concerned about their jobs. They're concerned about losing their homes. Most people won't, but most people are concerned about losing their living standard. 
   When the cost of groceries and gasoline and the cost of health care and education and other staples continues to go up, and the purchasing power of the income that people have is either stagnant or going down, they have concerns about their economic security. 
   So let's have a timetable for the American people. Let's have a timetable on our consideration of a trade bill that addresses the concerns and is compatible with the needs of America's working families. That is, I think, the only fair thing to do. 
   The President ignored those concerns and sent the bill over. I pledged to this body, as Speaker of the House, that at the appropriate time, if many of these concerns are addressed in terms of America's working families, that we can take up legislation for such a trade agreement. 
   Some have concerns about the content of the agreement. Others have concerns about the treatment of labor organizers in Colombia, and it's a real concern, and one admitted to by the administration and the Colombian Government. There are differences of opinion as to how this is changing, but let's see how we can work together to make that change. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>Ms. PELOSI. (RELATING TO THE CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5724, UNITED STATES-COLOMBIA TRADE PROMOTION AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION ACT -- (House of Representatives - April 10, 2008))</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Ms. PELOSI. Having control of the time, I will retain the control of the time, Mr. Speaker. 
   The important point here is, whether it's the substance of the bill, whether it's the conditions in Colombia, they are to be, obviously, major considerations. 
   But what we're saying to the President, we can't do much about some of these things. We certainly can address the provisions in the bill. But I'm not here to talk about that now. 
   What we can do something about, what we haven't done enough about is to send a positive economic agenda forth. And these are not difficult. Most of what we're talking to the President about are part of what has passed this Congress in mostly an overwhelming bipartisan way. 
   Whether we're talking about rebuilding the infrastructure of America, whether we're talking about investments in an innovation agenda, our commitment to competitiveness to keep America number 1, and that innovation begins in the classroom, and we have to have a strong commitment to the education of our people, whether we're talking about tax credits for our energy bill which we passed here, which would immediately create jobs. No, if we don't do it we will lose jobs that exist now. Same thing with infrastructure. If we don't make those investments, our projects will have to discontinue. But many more are ready. Dirt is ready to fly. The projects are in the pipeline. 
   There is a way to create good-paying jobs right here in America. We've passed the legislation. The vehicles are there for us to do it. And at the same time, we have to address the concerns of those who have lost their jobs, whether it's unemployment insurance or summer jobs program for their children or other initiatives. 
   So this is nothing new. And, in fact, the whole idea that we were going into recession is nothing new to most families across America. It took a while for the President and his administration to accept that fact, and, when they did, we could talk. And when they did, we could talk, we could work together, as Mr. Boehner and I did, with the Secretary of the Treasury, to put together a stimulus package that had strong bipartisan support, and, as the President has said, has not gone into effect yet. And when it does, I know it will inject demand into the economy, create jobs and, I think, stimulate the economy. 
   But since we did that, matters have only become worse, necessitating the need for us to do more. And we certainly should do more for our economy. And we certainly should do more for our economy before we pass another trade agreement. It's all possible in the days that are before us. 
   But instead of having the President's timetable, we have the timetable of the House of Representatives, we have a timetable for America's working families. 
   And nothing that we are doing here now should be misconstrued in terms of our attitude toward Colombia. Colombia is our friend, is a neighbor in the hemisphere. The relationship between Colombia and the United States is an important one. 
   We have concerns about workers in Colombia, and we respect the leadership of President Uribe. And as I said to the Ambassador yesterday, I hope you will convey that message to the President, and when you do, I hope you will also tell him we congratulate him on his excellent representation in the United States in ambassador service here. 
   So this isn't about ending anything. It's about having a timetable that respects the concerns, the aspirations, the challenges faced by the American people. We are the people's House. Their timetable should be our timetable. 
   I urge our colleagues to support the rule. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
